# Methods

Helical agar magnetic robot. The HAMR was constructed based on a method published by Hunter et al [4]. The structure of the robot was formed from a 2% w/v agar-based hydrogel (Fisher Cat. No. BP1423-500). The agar was melted to above 80 degrees Celsius and mixed with iron oxide nanopowder (Sigma Aldrich Cat. No. 637106) to a total concentration of 10% w/v. This mix was injected into a helical 3D printed mold printed on the Elegoo Mars stereolithography 3D printer to form a helical microrobot 4.4 mm in length. The microrobot was manually removed from the mold after cooling and solidifying, and stored in deionized water until use. Because the yield of this batch fabrication technique was not 100%, robots used for subsequent experiments were chosen based on their morphology and responsiveness to magnetic fields.

Circular swimming arena. The PDMS swimming arena was created by molding Sylgard 184 elastomer (Sigma Aldrich Cat. No. 761036) over a thin 3mm tall section of polyvinyl chloride pipe (31 mm Inner Diameter, 34mm Outer diameter) Access holes for the microrobot were cut, and then the molded PDMS was plasma bonded to a thin uniform sheet of PDMS to close the channel, and cured overnight at 65° C.

Magneturret. The Magneturret was constructed by winding 6 identical coils with 400 turns each of 30-gauge magnet wire (Remington Industries Cat. No. 30H200P) around a 0.26 inch diameter permalloy core (National Electronic Alloys Cat. No. HY-MU 80 Rod .260 AS DRAWN) cut to a length of 20 mm. These coils were fixed to the sides of an Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) 3D printed cube with quick set epoxy. The coil was enclosed in a 3D printed housing printed in Zortrax Z-glass filament with a Zortrax M200 printer and sealed with epoxy. Glycerol coolant was pumped through the housing with a liquid CPU cooling system (Thermaltake Cat. No. CL-W253-CU12SW-A). The coils were energized by creating sinusoidal currents with an Arduino STEMtera breadboard, which took serial commands from the RL agent over USB and turned them into PWM signals which were sent to two Pololu Dual G2 High-Power Motor Driver 24v14 Shields. The power supply used to power the coils and was a Madewell 24V DC power supply.
