We chose to operate our HAMR in a circular, fluid-filled track for this study. This arena served as a simple environment which mimics the tortuous in vivo luminal environments that microrobots operating in the body might encounter, while providing a simple environment for us to establish a robust proof-of-concept reinforcement learning control system (Figure 2g). The HAMR could swim in a complete circle within this arena, and no human intervention was required to reset the position of the robot in the environment during training, which facilitated automated learning [37]. The arena was constructed by pouring polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) over a polyvinyl chloride ring with an outer diameter of 34 mm and a 1.7 mm x 3 mm rectangular cross section. The PDMS was then cured, and plasma bonded to a second flat sheet of cured PDMS to form a rectangular lumen for the HAMR to swim. PDMS is transparent, allowing us to see the robot in the arena and to visually track it with an overhead camera. During long-term learning experiments, the PDMS arena was submerged in a petri dish filled with DI water in order to prevent the formation of air bubbles in the channel due to evaporation over the course of an experiment. This petri dish was then placed on top of the Magneturret, with the center of the Z-axis coil aligned with the center of the circular track (Figure 2h). A black rubber wafer was placed into the center of the arena on top of the PDMS to act as a fiducial marker so that the center of the arena could easily be identified with image processing. A diffuse white LED backlight was positioned between the Magneturret and the PDMS arena for uniform bottom-up illumination which facilitated simple image processing by binary thresholding to identify the position of the microrobot in the channel.

We did not perform an extensive analysis to identify the shape or magnitude of the magnetic field created by the Magneturret, or to model the swimming dynamics of the HAMR in the PDMS arena. We hypothesized that we would be able to develop a highperformance control system using RL without going through the effort of developing a system model first.
