# Optimizing the RL-trained policies via regression

We observed that the microrobot control policies learned by the RL agent sometimes performed actions that were obviously non-optimal (resulting in negative motion). We could likely further increase the performance of the learned polices by using techniques like hyperparameter tuning and longer training times [64]. However, by observing the behavior of the RL agent, we hypothesized that if we could distill the policies learned by the network into mathematical functions of the state variables, we might achieve a higher level of performance (Figure 5a). To test this, we chose one of the policies, and fit regression models to the data in order to create continuous control signals as a function of the robot position $\theta _ { r }$ . First, we examined policy 1 (Figure 4e). This policy was acting by modulating the magnitude in the X coil in what approximated a square wave pattern and modulating the phase angle in the Y coil in what appeared closer to a sine wave. The other two actions were held approximately constant regardless of the position of the robot. From all 3000 actions taken during policy evaluation, we selected the subset of actions taken by policy which had resulted in a positive movement of at least 3°, discarding the lower performing actions for this analysis. We then fit sinusoidal regression models to the $M _ { x }$ and $\varphi _ { y }$ action distributions, and also fit a square wave to $M _ { x }$ (Figure 5b). The resulting policies are shown in Figure 5a as solid black lines superimposed over the action distribution. The sine wave policy (Figure 5c) and the mixed sine/square wave policy (Figure 5d) that we developed with the regression models were then used to control the HAMR.

The sinusoidal policy achieved the highest level of performance (Figure $5 \mathrm { e } ) _ { }$ , achieving the highest average HAMR velocity of all policies tested in this study, while the square/sine policy performed slightly worse than the neural network policy on which it was based. Since these mathematical policies only use ???? as the input, it is possible that we could further increase the performance of mathematically inferred policies by taking other parts of the state vector into account.
