An engineering side of game theory is the theory of Mechanism design that deals with the design of games such that when acted upon by the strategic players, the equilibrium(s) of the game coincide with the outcome desired by the designer. It could be social welfare say desired by the government or profit maximization desired by private entities. Stackelberg equilibrium (SE) is a notion of equilibrium related to mechanism design. A Bayesian Stackelberg game is played between two players: a leader and a follower. The follower has a private type that only she observes, however, the leader knows the prior distribution on that state. The leader commits to a strategy that is observable to the follower. The follower then plays a best response to leader’s strategy to maximize its utility. Knowing that the follower will play a best response, the leader commits to and plays a strategy that maximizes his utility. Such pair of strategies of the leader and the follower is called a Stackelberg equilibrium. It is known that such strategies can provide higher utility to the leader than that obtained in a Nash equilibrium of the game.

In this paper, we consider discrete-time Stackelberg mean field games where there is a leader and infinitely many followers. The leader and each follower sequentially make strategic decisions and are affected by other players through a mean-field population state of the followers’ and the leader’s actions. Each follower has a private type that evolves through a controlled Markov process which only she observes and leader and all the followers observe the current population state which is the distribution of all the followers’ types. As before, the leader commits to a policy and all the followers best respond to it while being in equilibrium with each other such that for each time t and given the leader’s policy, a follower’s policy (symmetric across all followers) maximizes her reward to go so that she doesn’t gain by unilaterally deviating while all the other followers play the equilibrium policy. Similarly the leader plays a strategy such that when all the followers’ best respond to the leader’s strategy and are in equilibrium with each other, then the leader’s policy maximizes her reward to go. A special case is when the leader is social welfare maximizing and her instantaneous reward is sum of expected reward of the followers, where expectation is defined through the mean field state.
