# A. Strategic sensor attack effect on CS-ETM

Using (1), (4), (11) and (13), the dynamics of the compromised agent i and the compromised local neighborhood tracking error at time instant t, denoted by $q _ { i } ^ { c } ( t ) .$ become

$$\dot {x} _ {i} (t) = A x _ {i} (t) + B u _ {i} (t) + B f _ {i} (t), \tag {16}$$

and

$$q _ {i} ^ {c} (t) = q _ {i} (t) + \beta_ {i} q _ {i} ^ {m} (t), \tag {17}$$

where $q _ { i } ^ { m } ( t ) = - d _ { i } x _ { i } ^ { a } ( t )$ is the local neighborhood tracking error of agent i and $d _ { i }$ is the weighted in-degree of agent i.

The aim of the attacker is to harm the compromised agent or even the entire network by deceiving the triggering mechanism and consequently to degrade the performance of the MAS. To deceive an agent into exhibiting a nontriggering misbehavior, a strategic attacker can tamper the sensor reading, i.e., $q _ { i } ( t ) .$ , by scheming a replay attack. The following theorem shows that a strategic attacker can launch an attack on the sensors of an agent and change the consensus value without causing the violation of the triggering condition (6). Furthermore, this malicious attack strategy can cause non-triggering misbehavior which can make the original graph $\mathcal { G }$ clustered into several subgraphs and therefore harm the communication graph connectivity. To show this, we first need the following definition.

Definition 1. (Vertex cut). A vertex cut of $\mathcal { G }$ is a set of nodes $\mathcal { V } ( \Xi ) \subseteq \mathcal { V } ( \mathcal G )$ such that removing them from the graph $\mathcal { G } , \mathrm { i . e . , } \mathcal { G } \backslash \Xi$ , results in a disconnected graph clusters.

Theorem 1: Consider the MAS (16) under the control protocol (7). Let a set of agents $\mathcal { V } ( \Xi ) \subseteq \mathcal { V } ( \mathcal G )$ be the vertex cut of the graph $\mathcal { G }$ and all of its members be under a strategic replay attack, for $t \geq t _ { k } ^ { i } ,$ , given by

$$q _ {i} ^ {c} (t) = q _ {i} ^ {E} \left(t _ {k} ^ {i}\right) + \theta_ {i} ^ {a} 1 _ {n}, \tag {18}$$

where $q _ { i } ^ { E } ( t _ { k } ^ { i } ) ~ = ~ q _ { i } ( t _ { k } ^ { i } )$ is the eavesdropped communicated i kinformation $q _ { i } ( t )$ k at the triggering time instant $t _ { k } ^ { i } ,$ , and $\theta _ { i } ^ { a } \sim \mathcal { U } ( a _ { i } , b _ { i } )$ with

$$a _ {i} = (1 + \eta_ {i}) ^ {- 1} \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| - \left\| q _ {i} ^ {E} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\|, \tag {19}b _ {i} = (1 - \eta_ {i}) ^ {- 1} \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| - \left\| q _ {i} ^ {E} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\|, \tag {20}$$
