# II. MODEL

We consider a stochastic Stackelberg mean field game over a time horizon $[ T ] \stackrel { \triangle } { = } \{ 1 , 2 , . . . T \}$ with perfect recall as follows. Suppose there are two kinds of players: a leader and an infinite number of followers. Both the leader and the followers have private types, $x _ { t } ^ { l } \in \mathcal { X } ^ { l }$ for the leader and $x _ { t } ^ { f , i } \in \mathcal { X } ^ { f }$ , for the follower i at time t, where $x _ { t } ^ { f , i } , x _ { t } ^ { l }$ evolve as a conditionally independent controlled Markov processes in the following way, where for any finite N number for followers,

$$P (x _ {t} ^ {l}, x _ {t} ^ {f, 1}, \ldots , x _ {t} ^ {f, N} | z _ {1: t - 1}, a _ {1: t - 1}, x _ {1: t - 1}) = Q (x _ {t} ^ {l} | z _ {t - 1}, a _ {t - 1}, x _ {t - 1} ^ {l}) \prod_ {i = 1} ^ {N} Q (x _ {t} ^ {f, i} | z _ {t - 1}, a _ {t - 1}, x _ {t - 1} ^ {l}, x _ {t - 1} ^ {f}), \tag {1}$$

where $a _ { t } = ( a _ { t } ^ { l } , a _ { t } ^ { f } )$ is the actions taken by the leader and followers at time t and $Q$ is a known kernel. The leader takes action $a _ { t } ^ { l } \in \mathcal { A } ^ { l }$ at time t on observing $z _ { 1 : t } , x _ { 1 : t } ^ { l } ,$ , and the follower i takes action $a _ { t } ^ { f , i } \in \mathcal { A } ^ { f }$ at time t on observing $z _ { 1 : t }$ and $x _ { 1 : t } ^ { f , i }$ , where $z _ { t }$ is the mean field population state of the followers at time $t ,$ i.e.,

$$z _ {t} (x) \triangleq \lim _ {N \rightarrow \infty} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \frac {1}{N} 1 \left(x _ {t} ^ {f, i} = x\right). \tag {2}$$

Here, $z _ { 1 : t }$ is common information among players, and $x _ { 1 : t } ^ { l } ( x _ { 1 : t } ^ { f } )$ is private information of the leader (and the followers, respectively). We denote the set of possible values of the mean-field state by $\mathcal { Z } .$

At the end of interval t, the leader receives an instantaneous reward $R _ { t } ^ { l } ( z _ { t } , x _ { t } ^ { l } , a _ { t } ^ { l } )$ and the follower i receives an instantaneous reward $R _ { t } ^ { f } ( x _ { t } ^ { l } , x _ { t } ^ { f , i } , a _ { t } ^ { f , i } , a _ { t } ^ { l } , z _ { t } )$ . Note that the leader’s reward only depends on the followers’ actions through the mean-field state. Likewise for each follower, their reward depends on the actions of the other followers through the mean-field state, but does depend directly on the action of the leader and the follower’s own action.
