# I. INTRODUCTION

The success of next-generation connected autonomous vehicles can profoundly impact the transport sector globally by improving efficiency, preventing traffic congestion, and increasing road safety. In the past years, toward this goal, a rich body of work has considered designing distributed multiagent systems (MASs) that leverage communication between agent (vehicles) to further reduce congestion. Generally, in distributed control of MASs, a set of agents communicate with each other over a communication network to reach a coordinated group behavior. Specifically, in the consensus control problem, the coordinated group behavior is specified as achieving agreement between agents on some quantity of interest.

Traditional approaches for implementation of distributed control protocols of MASs require continuous exchange of information among agents, which demands a large communication bandwidth and can result in congestion for systems with resource-limited embedded micro-processors. To F. Tatari1, A. Mustafa, M. Mazouchi, and H. Modares are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, 48824, USA tatarifa@msu.edu; mustaf15@msu.edu; mazouchi@msu.edu; modaresh@msu.edu 2M. M. Polycarpou and C. G. Panayiotou are with the KIOS Research and Innovation Center of Excellence and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, 1678, Cyprus christosp@ucy.ac.cy; mpolycar@ucy.ac.cy

alleviate this issue, several real-time scheduling methods, called event-triggered control approaches, have been introduced for reducing the communication burden while keeping the performance at an acceptable level [1]–[3]. Typically, communication and control updates are executed when the ratio of a certain error norm exceeds a predefined threshold. A rich body of literature has been developed on eventtriggered control approaches [4]–[7]. In these approaches it is assumed that the communication network and agents are reliable and not compromised. This assumption, nevertheless, can be violated in the presence of cyber-physical attacks.
