is a uniformly distributed random number, where $\eta _ { i }$ is the ηevent threshold defined in (6). Then, the triggering condition (6) can never be violated for agent i, $\forall i \in \mathcal { V } ( \Xi )$ and consequently, it shows non-triggering misbehavior which makes the original graph $\mathcal { G }$ clustered into several subgraphs.

Proof: The proof is carried out in two steps. In the first step, we show that the condition (6) can never be violated for agent i, $\forall i \in \mathcal { V } ( \Xi )$ , if

$$(1 + \eta_ {i}) ^ {- 1} \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| < \| q _ {i} (t) \| < (1 - \eta_ {i}) ^ {- 1} \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| \tag {21}$$

holds. In the second step, we use (21) to conclude the proof. To this aim, using (3) and some manipulation, (6) can be rewritten as

$$(1 - \eta_ {i} ^ {2}) \| q _ {i} (t) \| ^ {2} - 2 \| q _ {i} (t) \| \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| + \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| ^ {2} \leq 0. \tag {22}$$

Note that $q _ { i } ( t _ { k } ^ { i } )$ is constant for $t \in \left[ t _ { k } ^ { i } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { i } \right)$ . Therefore, it ,follows from the quadratic formula that

$$(1 - \eta_ {i} ^ {2}) \| q _ {i} \| ^ {2} - 2 \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| \| q _ {i} \| + \left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\| ^ {2} =(1 - \eta_ {i} ^ {2}) (\| q _ {i} \| - \frac {\left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\|}{(1 - \eta_ {i})}) (\| q _ {i} \| - \frac {\left\| q _ {i} (t _ {k} ^ {i}) \right\|}{(1 + \eta_ {i})}). \tag {23}$$

Completing the square, one can see that under the strategic replay attack given by (18), the event-triggered condition in (6), $\forall i \in \mathcal { V } ( \Xi )$ , can never be violated based on (21), and thus one has

$$\left\| e _ {i} (t) \right\| = \left\| q _ {i} ^ {c} (t) - q _ {i} \left(t _ {k} ^ {i}\right) \right\| \leq \eta_ {i} (t) \left\| q _ {i} ^ {c} (t) \right\|, t \geq t _ {k} ^ {i}, \forall i \in \mathcal {V} (\Xi). \tag {24}$$

Then, these agents do not transmit their information to their neighbors and they act as sink agents. Since the set of agents V(Ξ) is a vertex cut, the non-triggering misbehavior of agents in V(Ξ) prevents the exchange of information from happening between agents in some segments of the graph G, and therefore clusters the original graph G into some subgraphs. This completes the proof.
