# B. Technology adoption

We consider a game where a firm decides the price of its product whose utility for a user depends on its personal preference and is also directly proportional to the number of other users who use that product. Each follower i chooses one of the two technologies with action $a _ { t } ^ { f , i } = \{ - 1 , 1 \}$ . She has a binary valued random variable $x _ { t } ^ { f , i } \in \{ - 1 , 1 \}$ } that it privately observes which determines her preference for the product. The form is competing against another firm the price of whose product is fixed. The preferences of the players also evolve in an independent Markovian fashion such that

$$
P (x _ {t + 1} ^ {f, i} \neq x _ {t} ^ {f, i} | a _ {t} ^ {f, i}) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} p ^ {1} & \text { if } a _ {t} ^ {f, i} = x _ {t} ^ {f, i} \\ p ^ {2} & \text { if } a _ {t} ^ {f, i} \neq x _ {t} ^ {f, i}, \end{array} \right. \tag {41}
$$

where we assume that $p ^ { 1 } < p ^ { 2 } < 1 / 2$ . This indicates that there is some sense of “stickiness" or inertia with the product such that if a follower has a preference for product A and choose the product A, the probability that her preference would change to the product B is lower than if she chose the product B in the first place.

Thus the mean field $z _ { t }$ updates as

$$
\begin{array}{l} z _ {t + 1} (1) = 1 - \left(z _ {t} (1) \gamma_ {t} (- 1 | 1) Q (- 1 | 1, - 1) + z _ {t} (1) \gamma_ {t} (1 | 1) Q (- 1 | 1, 1) + \right. \\ z _ {t} (- 1) \gamma_ {t} (- 1 | - 1) Q (- 1 | - 1, - 1) + z _ {t} (- 1) \gamma_ {t} (1 | - 1) Q (- 1 | - 1, 1)) (42) \\ = 1 - \left(z _ {t} (1) \gamma_ {t} (- 1 | 1) p ^ {2} + z _ {t} (1) \gamma_ {t} (1 | 1) p ^ {1} + z _ {t} (- 1) \gamma_ {t} (- 1 | - 1) \left(1 - p ^ {1}\right) + z _ {t} (- 1) \gamma_ {t} (1 | - 1) \left(1 - p ^ {2}\right)\right) (43) \\ \end{array}
$$

and she receives a utility

$$
r _ {t} ^ {f, i} \left(z _ {t}, x _ {t} ^ {f, i}, a _ {t} ^ {i}\right) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} x _ {t} ^ {f, i} a _ {t} ^ {f, i} + \left(2 z _ {t} (1) - 1\right) a _ {t} ^ {f, i} - c _ {t} ^ {1} \text {   if   } a _ {t} ^ {i} = 1 \\ x _ {t} ^ {f, i} a _ {t} ^ {f, i} + \left(2 z _ {t} (1) - 1\right) a _ {t} ^ {f, i} - c ^ {- 1} \text {   if   } a _ {t} ^ {i} = - 1 \end{array} \right. \tag {44}
$$

where $\{ c _ { t } ^ { 1 } , c _ { - 1 } \}$ are the costs associated with actions $a _ { t } ^ { f , i } = \{ 1 , - 1 \}$ respectively. We assume that cost of product by the other firm is $c ^ { - 1 } = - 1$ is fixed and exogenous, however, the firm can decide the cost of the product 1.

The leader is profit maximizing and has utility
