We recorded each action taken by the agent during training sessions and the resultant change in state of the microrobot. For a single training run, we plotted the distribution of actions as a function of the resultant change in HAMR position, ∆???? (Figure 3c). We separated the total 100k steps into 5 bins of 20k steps each. The distribution of actions over the first 20k time steps (Figure 3c, i) is centered around a sharp peak of actions which result in no net movement, as we would expect from an agent with little experience randomly exploring the space of possible actions. By the second batch of 20k steps (Figure 3c, ii), a pattern emerged in which the action distribution shifted to a bimodal distribution in which most actions still result in no net movement, but a second peak on the positive side indicates a trend towards selecting actions which result in clockwise movement. However, during this phase of training, the net motion of the robot remained close to zero (Figure 3d), because of fattening of the negative tail in the action distribution. As the learning process continued, the distribution continued to shift until the average movement was clockwise, with a second peak around 5 degrees per time step, and a narrow tail representing few actions, which caused the robot to move in the counterclockwise direction (Figure 3c, v).

Once the training sessions were complete, we evaluated the learned policies to test their performance. For evaluating policies, we used the highest performing policy parameters learned during a training session by monitoring a rolling average of the return over the last 100 episodes and saving the policy parameters each time the rolling average performance exceeded the last best performing model (Supplementary Figure 1). This was done because we sometimes observed a drop in performance after the peak performance was achieved in training, possibly due to overfitting. Early stopping, or selecting a policy before performance degradation has occurred, is a common technique used to prevent overfitting in neural networks [65]. Successful policies were able to move the robot indefinitely around the complete circular track (Figure 3e, Supplementary Movie 2).
