noticeable wear over the course of several months of continuous use, thus meeting a practical reinforcement learning constraint that the system not be susceptible to significant wear and tear during extended use which would cause a distribution shift in the collected data as the dynamic properties of the system degraded [55].

As an actuator for our microrobot system, we developed a three-axis magnetic coil actuator –the Magneturret– which contained six permalloy-core magnetic coils arranged on the faces of a 3D-printed acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) plastic cube (Figure 2e). The two coils on opposite sides of the central cube along each axis were wired together in series so that they both contribute to the generation of a magnetic field along their respective axis. Each of the three coils, hereafter referred to as the X, Y, and Z coils, were driven with a sinusoidal current generated by a pulse width modulated (PWM) signal created by a microcontroller and amplified in an H-bridge motor driver. The resulting magnetic field, produced by the superposition of the magnetic fields from the three coils, could be modulated by varying the frequency, amplitude, and phase angle of the sine current waves in each coil. To cool the coils and prevent thermal damage, the Magneturret was sealed with epoxy resin into a 3D-printed housing and coolant was continuously pumped through while the coil was operating (Figure 2f). The RL agent was given direct control over the magnitude and phase angles of the sinusoidal driving currents in the X and Y-axis coils of the Magneturret (Table 1). The Z-axis magnitude was calculated as the larger of the two magnitudes in X and Y, and the Z-axis phase angle was fixed. The sinusoidal currents in each axis used a fixed angular frequency of 100 rad/s (15.9 Hz).

Magnetic Coil Control Parameters
