# I. INTRODUCTION

With increasing amount of integration of technology in our society and with recent advancements in computation and algorithmic technologies, there is an unprecedented scale of interaction among people and devices. As an example, smartphones have penetrated our society in the last decade and more than 65% of the world is connected through the internet. Such deep inter-connectedness of the society demands a need to design and understand the behavior of the resulting large scale interactions and a need to design policies by the government and private players to better govern and optimally respond. In this paper, we present a new methodology to analyze such interactions through Stackelberg mean-field dynamic games.

The theory of dynamic games is a powerful tool to model such sequential strategic interaction among selfish players, introduced by [1]. Discrete-time dynamic games with Markovian structure have been studied extensively to model many practical applications in both engineering and economics, such as as dynamic auctions [2], [3], security [4], markets [5], [6], traffic routing [7], [8], wireless systems [9], social learning [10], [11], oligopolies– i.e. competition among firms (e.g. [12], [13]), and more.

In dynamic games with perfect and symmetric information, subgame perfect equilibrium (SPE) is an appropriate equilibrium concept. Markov Perfect Equilibria (MPE), introduced in [14], is a refinement of SPE that is also used, where players’ strategies depend on a coarser Markovian state of the systems, instead of the whole history of the game which grows exponentially with time and thus becomes unwieldy. An analogous notion to SPE for incomplete information games is perfect Bayesian equilibrium (PBE). However, when the number of players is large, computing MPE/PBE becomes intractable. To model the behavior of large population strategic interactions, mean-field games were introduced independently by [15], and [16]. In such games, there are large number of homogeneous strategic players, where each player has infinitesimal effect on system dynamics and is affected by other players through a mean-field population state. There have been a number of applications such as economic growth, security in networks, oil production, volatility formation, population dynamics (see [17]–[23] and references therein).
