Instead of explicitly modeling the dynamics of the magnetic actuator and the HAMR within the environment and specifying a controller, we performed the much simpler task of specifying the desired behavior of the HAMR in the form of a reward signal. The agent observed the state of the environment along with a reward signal containing information about actions that lead towards the successful completion of the task. The RL agent started without any a priori information about the task and had to learn to perform the task by sampling actions from the space of all possible actions and learning which actions resulted in behavior that was rewarded.

The RL controller required us to develop and formulate the task as well as the associated reward signal. At the beginning of each training episode, a target position was defined, $2 0 ^ { \circ }$ clockwise from the starting position of the HAMR in the circular channel. The objective of the RL agent was to develop an action policy, ????, which maximized the total value of the rewards it would receive if it followed that policy in the future. When the environment was in state, ????, the agent chose an action, ????, from the policy according to $a \sim \pi ( \cdot | s )$ , probabilistically selecting from a distribution of possible actions available in that state. The agent received a reward when it selected actions that moved the HAMR clockwise through the circular lumen towards the target, and it received a negative reward when it moved the HAMR counterclockwise. If the HAMR reached the target within the allotted time, the agent was given a large bonus reward, and the target position was advanced 20°. The reward function we selected was

$$r (s, a) = \Delta \theta_ {r} + 1 0 0 0 \textbf {i f} (\theta_ {r} = \theta_ {g}) \tag {1}$$

where $\theta _ { r }$ is the angular position of the HAMR in the channel in degrees, $\theta _ { g }$ is the angular position of the goal, and $\Delta \theta _ { r }$ is the change in angular position of the HAMR as a result taking of action ???? in state ????.
