Using our framework, we consider two problems. The first example we consider is a malware spread problem in a cyber-physical system where the followers correspond to nodes in the system. Nodes get infected by an independent random process where each node has a higher risk of getting infected if there are more infected nodes in the system, due to negative externality imposed by other infected nodes. At each time t, each follower privately observes her own state and publicly observes the population of infected nodes, based on which she has to make a decision to repair or not. Furthermore, there is a leader (e.g. a government) that decides on subsidies to take the action ‘repair’ with the goal of maximizing social welfare and minimizing the total cost of the subsidy. In the second example we consider technology adoption where we consider two technologies, one with a constant exogenous price and second with a price set by the firm, who dynamically prices its product to get most customers. We assume there is some “stickyness" to the product such that if a buyer chooses that product, it is more likely to prefer that next time as well.

The paper is structured as follows. In Section II, we present the model, our notation and background. In Section III, we present the notion of a Stackelberg Mean Field Equilibrium (SMFE) and the common information approach. In Section IV, we present our main results, where we present an algorithm to compute a SMFE for the finite horizon game. We present numerical examples in Section VI. We conclude in Section VII. All proofs are presented in Appendix.
