The HAMR that we created for this study was composed of a 2% w/v agar hydrogel, which was uniformly diffused with 10% w/v iron oxide nanopowder to form a magnetically susceptible soft polymer (Figure 2a) [4]. This magnetic agar solution was heated to melting temperature and a syringe was used to inject the liquid into a helical mold created using a stereolithography 3D printer (Figure 2b). The agar in the mold solidified and the robots were removed with a metal needle and stored long-term in deionized (DI)

water. The HAMRs molded for this study were 4.4 mm in length, 1 mm in diameter, and asymmetrical from head to tail, with flat head and a pointed tail (Figure 2c,d). Microrobots formed with this technique have been previously shown to be controllable within rotating magnetic fields, and to perform biomedical functions such as cell delivery [4] and active biofilm removal in the root canal of human teeth [54]. For our application, this HAMR design had several advantages. The HAMRs were simple to manufacture at low cost with batch fabrication methods. The HAMRs were small enough to act as helical swimming robots in a flow regime with Reynolds number \~1, but large enough, about the size of a small grain of rice, to be easily manipulated and visualized without the use of microscopes or other micromanipulation tools. Because the HAMRs swim with non-reciprocal, helical motion in the presence of a rotating magnetic field, a very common motif in microrobotic research [11, 60, 61], insights gained from this study could readily be extended to other microrobotic systems with similar characteristics. Because the HAMRs were made of soft hydrogel, they were flexible and deformable. Soft bodied robots have many favorable characteristics for in vivo use such as deformability to fit through irregular shaped channels and enhanced biocompatibility (e.g., by matching the elastic modulus of the robot to the biological environment) [62]. These characteristics make softbodied microrobots appealing for biomedical applications, but it can be more difficult to create accurate dynamic models for soft-bodied microrobots [16]. Our method of using reinforcement learning to develop control systems without explicit modeling could be particularly useful for soft microrobots due to this modeling constraint. Finally, despite being soft-bodied, the hydrogel structure of the HAMR did not experience
