# Reinforcement learning can be used to learn microrobot control policies

State information of the microrobotic system was derived by using image processing to create a state vector-based input, which was passed to the RL agent. The angular position, $\theta _ { r }$ , of the microrobot in the channel was calculated with image processing by binary thresholding and simple morphological operations. The camera was deliberately run with a slow shutter speed so that the images were intentionally washed out to remove noise. This simplified the task of using binary thresholding operations to identify the position of the HAMR and the center of the channel. The angular position of the HAMR in the channel was measured relative to the fiducial marker in the center of the circular arena. This information, as well as the position of the goal, $\theta _ { g } ,$ , the last action taken by the agent $( M _ { x , t - 1 } , M _ { y , t - 1 } , \varphi _ { x , t - 1 } , \varphi _ { y , t - 1 } )$ , and the time, ???? , remaining in the episode were used to create a state vector.

Reinforcement learning is based on the mathematics of Markov decision processes, which theoretically require the full state of the system to be available to the agent in order for convergence to be guaranteed [34]. In our particular implementation, the velocity of the HAMR at any given time could not be determined from a single still-frame observation, so the total state of the system given to the agent at each time step was composed of three concatenated subobservations taken 0.3 seconds apart, for a total step time of 0.9 seconds (see Algorithm 1, steps 11-15). This allowed the agent to infer the velocity of the HAMR based on differences between the three sub-observations. This technique of batching sequential observations for improving the observability of the system for RL has been used successfully in domains such as Atari video games, in which the agent learned from raw pixel data gathered from sequential screenshots of the game [63].
