Despite significant progress in designing resilient distributed control systems [11]–[19], there is no rigorous analysis on how a stealthy attack can leverage the eventtriggered mechanism in distributed control protocols to undermine the system performance. The science of modeling and analysis of adverse effects of attacks is a key step in securing the system by identifying possible vulnerabilities of event-triggered mechanisms, which helps to design enhanced defense mechanisms against them. Towards this aim, in this paper, the effect of cyber-physical attacks on event-triggered based distributed control methods is rigorously studied. Two general event mechanisms, namely, state-based and combinational state-based event mechanisms, are reviewed, and, then, their vulnerabilities to attacks are investigated. First, we show that the deception attack on a combinational state-based event-triggered mechanism (CS-ETM) may result in a nontriggering misbehavior. In this case, even if the performance of the compromised agent is far from the desired, the event triggering mechanism is fooled by the attacker and consequently does not trigger any event, virtually disconnecting all its outcoming links. Hence, this deception attack acts like a denial-of-service (DoS) attack, which can greatly harm the speed of the information flow within agents and the network connectivity. Moreover, we show that the deception attack on a state-based event-triggered mechanism (S-ETM) can lead to a continuous-triggering misbehavior, where the eventtriggered mechanism continuously generates events, resulting in Zeno behavior [20]. Zeno behavior is an extremely undesirable phenomenon in hybrid systems since the system is forced to sample excessively fast, and as result the execution instants get too close to each other, causing, a countless number of discrete transitions to take place in a finite time interval [20]. Moreover, such deception attacks on S-ETM may exhaust the agents computational or communication resources in the cyber layer.
