It is possible to derive LMI-based conditions for guaranteeing stability of both the model-based and the data-driven STS approach, and to co-design the controller gain and the triggering matrix. These results are omitted for space reasons.

Remark 8 (Explanation of the data-driven STS condition). Theorem 3 offers a data-driven triggering condition based on the model-based one in (31). The key idea is that we leverage the data-based representation in (35) to robustly verify the STS condition for all $[ A ^ { s } \underline { { B } } ^ { s } ]$ consistent with the data. As a result, the model-based triggering STS function in (31) is translated into a data-driven one as follows

$$\bar {\Gamma} (x \left(t _ {k}\right), s _ {k}) = \max _ {s _ {k} \in \mathbb {N}} \left\{s _ {k} \geq 1 \mid \tilde {\mathcal {Q}} \left(x \left(t _ {k}\right)\right) - \gamma \tilde {\mathcal {G}} ^ {s _ {k}} \left(x \left(t _ {k}\right)\right) \succeq 0 \right\}. \tag {40}$$

Overall, our data-driven STS is given by

$$t _ {k + 1} = t _ {k} + \bar {\Gamma} (x (t _ {k}), s _ {k}) \tag {41}$$

under Assumptions 2 and 3 for system (27). Note that, in Theorem 3, the data-driven condition $\tilde { \mathcal { Q } } ( \boldsymbol { x } ( t _ { k } ) ) - \gamma \tilde { \mathcal { G } } ^ { s } ( \boldsymbol { x } ( t _ { k } ) ) \succeq$ 0 sufficiently guarantees the model-based one $\mathcal { Q } ( x ( t _ { k } ) , s ) \ge 0$ in (31) that is consistent with system stability characteristics. A smaller triggering interval may be produced by (40), since (40) only provides a sufficient condition for (31).
