Since the controller design is usually based on the state estimation [26]–[28] and the observer design can be connected with the tracking control in terms of synchronization [17], [29], our second contribution is to apply the derived results to the event-triggered observer design for networked MAS. To show this, we address the following two cases: an independent observer is designed for each agent based on the local information from this agent; multiple observers are designed for an agent (group) based on the partial information from the agent (group). In these two cases, the agents are not required to be stable (as in [30]) due to their own nature, and the robust decentralized estimation is ensured under the derived decentralized ETMs and MASP bounds. In particular, we envision a hybrid model similar to [31], which however is on the linear time-triggered case. Therefore, the obtained results are novel in the context of robust distributed estimation, in which case the estimation is based on either TTC/ETC or the centralized fashion [17], [26], [28], [32].

The remainder of this paper is organized below. Preliminaries are given in Section II. The tracking problem is formulated in Section III, and the hybrid model is developed in Section IV. The main results are derived in Section V. The obtained results are applied to the event-triggered observer design in Section VI. Numerical examples are presented in Section VII. Conclusions and further research are stated in Section VIII.
