# 2.1 Delta family representation of density function

In this section, all expectations and distributions are taken under the physical or real world measure P . Consider a one-dimensional Markov process $\{ X _ { t } \} _ { t \ge 0 }$ on the domain1 R+. We focus on representing the transition probability density function of $X _ { t }$ in the one-dimensional case, $f ( y \mid x ) : = P ( X _ { t + h } = y \mid X _ { t } = x )$ .

Our new method starts with a representation of the transition density using Dirac’s Delta function stated in the following Lemma.

Lemma 2.1. We have the following representation of the transition density function:

$$f (y \mid x) = \mathbb {E} _ {x} [ \delta (X _ {t + h} - y) ], \tag {2.1}$$

where $\delta ( \cdot )$ is the Dirac Delta function.

Proof From the sifting property of the Dirac Delta function, we have the following calculation:

$$\mathbb {E} _ {x} [ \delta (X _ {t + h} - y) ] = \int_ {\mathbb {R} _ {+}} \delta (u - y) f (u \mid x) d u = f (y \mid x).$$

This completes the proof. 

The above representation (2.1) has also been utilized in the literature. For example, Yang et al. (2019) used it to develop an approximate parametric transition density expansion by approximating the Dirac Delta function through a sequence of Gaussian functions. In contrast, the second step of our method involves using concrete and exact representations of the Dirac Delta function from complete orthonomal basis of Hilbert spaces. To fix ideas, let $\{ g _ { k } \left( y \right) \} _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty }$ be a complete orthonomal basis, then the Dirac Delta function can be represented by

$$\delta (x - a) = \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} g _ {k} (x) g _ {k} (a). \tag {2.2}$$

Note that the above identity holds in a “distribution” sense in the notation of generalized functions, and that the above representation is essentially equivalent to the completeness of the basis. Thus the above identity is also called the “completeness identity”. What is more, there are many choices of the basis for various situations. For more details, we refer the reader to an excellent expository article (Li and Wong, 2013). For example, we have the following series representations2 of the Dirac Delta function:
