# 1.1. Related Work

Adaptive control. The self-tuning adaptive control literature studies asymptotic learning in the parametric or non-parametric version of the problem described in (1), and the study was initiated by Mandl. Mandl (1974) showed that the MLE converges to the true parameter under an identifiability condition. Since then, the adaptive control problem has been vastly studied in great generality; see Borkar and Varaiya (1979), Kumar and Becker (1982), Kumar and Lin (1982), Agrawal et al. (1989), Graves and Lai (1997), Gopalan and Mannor (2015). Learning in queueing systems is one of the applications in this literature; see Lai and Yakowitz (1995), Kumar and Varaiya (2015).

A core assumption in the above literature is that the transition kernels of the underlying controlled Markov chains are strictly bounded away from 0 and 1, with the bound uniform in the parameter and the class of (optimal) policies. This core assumption does not hold in our problem: the controlled Markov chain found by sampling the queueing system at arrivals has drastically different behavior under the available class of policies—admit if room or never admit—, and thus the conclusions of this literature do not apply. Furthermore, in the above literature, most of the results are on asymptotic learning, and only recently, finite-time regret guarantees have been obtained. The existing finite-time regret guarantees are largely for certain discrete-time queueing systems with geometrically distributed service times and unknown parameters, which we will discuss below.
