$$p _ {t, s, a} = \frac {Q _ {t} (s , a)}{\sum_ {i \in A} Q _ {t} (s , i)}. \tag {2}$$

The matrix Θ is initialized with arbitrary rotations $\Theta _ { 0 }$ . Starting from the initial state $s _ { 0 }$ , the following procedure is repeatedly executed. At the $t ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ epoch, random action a is chosen from set A. In current state s, the agent applies action a causing the world to make a transition. World state $s ^ { \prime }$ is observed. Using a, s and $s ^ { \prime } ,$ the Q-values $( Q _ { t } )$ are updated. For every other action pair $( s , a )$ , where $s \in S$ is not the current state or $a \in A$ is not the executed action, probability $p _ { t , s , a }$ is also updated according to Equation (2). Using $\Theta _ { t - 1 }$ and the $p _ { t , s , a }$ probabilities, the variational circuit parameter is updated and yields Θt .

The variational circuit is trained such that under input state s , the measured output in the system $\mathbf { A } = W ( \Theta ) \left| s \right.$ is a with probability $p _ { t , s , a } .$ . Training of the circuit can be done with a gradient descent optimizer41. Step-by-step, the optimizer minimizes the distance between the probability of measuring |ai and the ratio $p _ { t , s , a } .$ for a in A.

The variational circuit W (Θ) is trained on the probabilities of the computational basis members of A, in a state s. Quantum RL repeatedly updates Θ such that the evaluation of $\mathbf { A } = W ( \Theta ) \left| s \right.$ yields actions with probabilities proportional to the rewards. That is, the action action recommended by the policy is arg maxa∈A A, i.e., the row-index of the element with highest probability amplitude.

Since W (Θ) is a circuit, once trained it can be used multiple times. Furthermore, with this scheme the learned knowledge Θ, which are rotations, can be easily stored or shared with other parties. This RL scheme can be implemented using the resources of the PennyLane software41. An illustrative example is discussed in the next subsection.
