# 1. INTRODUCTION

Event-triggered control (ETC) and self-triggered control (STC) are resource efficient approaches to determine sampling instants for Networked Control Systems (NCS) (cf. Heemels et al. (2012)). Whilst sampling instants for ETC are determined by a state-dependent trigger rule that is monitored continuously, for STC at each sampling instant the next sampling instant is determined using available state information. It has been shown in Mazo et al. (2009); Anta and Tabuada (2010) that STC can reduce the network load for NCS in contrast to the classical periodic sampling significantly.

Whilst STC for linear systems is well studied (see, e.g., Heemels et al. (2012); Brunner et al. (2019) and the references therein), fewer results are available for nonlinear systems. In Anta and Tabuada (2010); Delimpaltadakis and Mazo (2020, 2021), the state space is divided into isochronous manifolds with the same sampling interval. In Benedetto et al. (2013); Tiberi and Johansson (2013); Theodosis and Dimarogonas (2018), Lipschitz continuity properties are used to determine sampling instants such that the decrease of a Lyapunov function can be guaranteed. Recently, in Hertneck and Allg¨ower (2021b); Hertneck and Allg¨ower (2021c), hybrid Lyapunov functions and a dynamic variable that captures the past system behavior are used to determine sampling instants.

With the exception of Benedetto et al. (2013); Theodosis and Dimarogonas (2018), the aforementioned approaches for nonlinear systems neglect delays between sampling of the states and the application of the respective feedback. However, neglecting such delays is typically not realistic for NCS, where delays may, e.g., arise from bandwidth limitations and from congestion of packets in the network due to a high network load.
