# 2 Related Work

Protection is one of the most important branches of cybersecurity. It mainly relies on the implementation of state-of-the-art cryptographic protocols. They mainly comprise the use of encryption, digital signatures and key agreement. The security of some cryptographic families are based on computational complexity assumptions. For instance, public key cryptography builds upon factorization and discrete logarithm problems. They assume the lack of efficient solutions that break them in polynomial time. However, quantum enabled adversaries can invalidate these assumptions. They put those protocols at risk7, 8. At the same time, the availability of quantum computers from research to general purpose applications led to the creation of new cybersecurity disciplines. The most prominent one is Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC). It is a fast growing research topic aiming to develop new public key cryptosystems resistant to quantum enabled adversaries.

The core idea of PQC is to design cryptosystems whose security rely on computational problems that cannot be resolved by quantum adversaries in admissible time. Candidate PQC families include code-based9, hash-based10, multivariate11, lattice-based12, 13 and supersingular isogeny-based14 cryptosystems. Their security is all based on mathematical problems that are believed to be hard, even with quantum computation and communications resources15. Furthermore, PQC has led to new research directions driven by different quantum attacks. For instance, quantum-resistant routing aims at achieving a secure and sustainable quantum-safe Internet16.
