# C. Model-based stability analysis

In this subsection, we develop a model-based stability condition for the sampled-data system (5) under the transmission scheme (9), where matrices A and B are assumed known. Our triggering strategy (9) comprises a time-trigger with sampling interval h. Increasing values of h lead to fewer data transmissions under our triggering strategy, where h is directly related to the stability properties. Based on this observation, we derive a stability criterion for system (5) under (9) using the DLF approach. Before moving on, a useful result is given.

Lemma 4 (Summation inequality). For any vector $\vartheta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , matrices $R = R ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n ^ { \cdot } } \succ 0 , \ N \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times 2 n }$ , scalars $\alpha \leq$ $\beta \in \mathbb { N } ,$ and a sequence $\{ x ( s ) \} _ { s = \alpha } ^ { \beta - 1 }$ , the following summation inequality holds true

$$- \sum_ {i = \alpha} ^ {\beta - 1} y ^ {\top} (i) R y (i) \leq (\beta - \alpha) \vartheta^ {\top} N \mathcal {R} ^ {- 1} N ^ {\top} \vartheta + \operatorname{Sym} \left\{\vartheta^ {\top} N \Pi \right\}$$

where $y ( i ) : = x ( i + 1 ) - x ( i ) , \mathcal { R } : = \mathrm { d i a g } \{ R , { 3 R } \} , \Pi : =$ $\left[ x ^ { \top } ( \beta ) - x ^ { \top } ( \alpha ) , x ^ { \top } ( \beta ) + x ^ { \top } ( \alpha ) - \sum _ { i = \alpha } ^ { \beta } \frac { x ^ { \top } ( i ) } { \beta - \alpha + 1 } \right] ^ { \top } .$

Lemma 4 can be cast as a special case of [33, Lemma 2], whose proof is omitted here. Based on Lemmas 3 and 4, we have the following model-based stability condition.

Theorem 1 (Model-based condition). For given scalars $\bar { h } >$ $h > 0 , \sigma _ { 1 } \geq 0 , \sigma _ { 2 } \geq 0 , \lambda > 0 ,$ , and $\theta > 0$ satisfying $\textstyle 1 - \lambda - { \frac { 1 } { \theta } } \geq$ 0, asymptotic stability of system (5) is achieved under the triggering condition (9), and $\eta ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } )$ converges to the origin for $\eta ( 0 ) \geq 0 .$ , if there exist matrices $P \succ 0 , R _ { 1 } \succ 0 , R _ { 2 } \succ 0 ,$ $\Omega \succ 0 , \ S , \ N _ { 1 } , \ N _ { 2 } , \ F $ , such that the following LMIs hold for $h \in \{ h , \bar { h } \}$

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} \Xi_ {0} + h \Xi_ {\varsigma} + \Psi + \mathcal {O} & h N _ {\varsigma} \\ * & - h \mathcal {R} _ {\varsigma} \end{array} \right] \prec 0, \varsigma = 1, 2 \tag {11}
$$

where $\Psi : = \mathrm { S y m } \big \{ F ( A L _ { 1 } + B K L _ { 7 } - L _ { 2 } ) \big \}$ , and
