# C. Regularization of the optimization and line search

As with all nonlinear optimization, proper care must be taken to ensure a good convergence behavior of the method. The DDP algorithm involves the matrix inversion of $Q _ { u u }$ in (9), which may cause numerical instability. A regularization scheme was, therefore, proposed by [12], [16], [27] to ensure invertibility of $Q \sb { u u }$ in (9) by replacing it with:

$$\tilde {Q} _ {u u} = Q _ {u u} + \beta I, \tag {13}$$

where, $\beta > 0$ is a small positive constant. Furthermore, when using this regularization, [27] suggests that the following modifications to (12) are recommended for numerical stability:

$$
\begin{array}{l} V _ {k} ^ {0} = Q _ {k} ^ {0} + \frac {1}{2} \tilde {d} ^ {\top} Q _ {u} + \frac {1}{2} \tilde {d} ^ {\top} Q _ {u u} \tilde {d}, \\ v _ {k} = - Q _ {x} + \tilde {K} ^ {\top} Q _ {u u} \tilde {d} + \tilde {K} ^ {\top} Q _ {u} - Q _ {u x} ^ {\top} \tilde {d}, \tag {14} \\ S _ {k} = Q _ {x x} + \tilde {K} ^ {\top} Q _ {u u} \tilde {K} - \tilde {K} ^ {\top} Q _ {u x} - Q _ {u x} ^ {\top} \tilde {K}, \\ \end{array}
$$

where $\tilde { K } = \tilde { Q } _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } Q _ { u x }$ and $\tilde { d } = - \tilde { Q } _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } Q _ { u }$

The value $\beta$ can be adapted by using a Levenberg–Marquardt type of adaptation procedure, that is, if the cost of the new trajectory is less than the current one, then the value of $\beta$ is decreased by dividing it with a constant factor $\nu > 1$ , otherwise the value increased by multiplying with ν and the new trajectory is discarded. Note that if $\beta = 0 ,$ , then (14) reduces to (12). In [28] the authors used a quadratic modification schedule to choose $\beta$ at each iteration.

References [15], [27], [29] also suggest to use an additional backtracking line search scheme to improve convergence. A parameter $0 < \epsilon \leq 1$ is introduced in the update statement of the control in the forward pass routine as follows

$$\delta \hat {u} _ {k} = \epsilon \tilde {d} - \tilde {K} \delta x _ {k}, \quad \hat {u} _ {k} = u _ {k} + \delta \hat {u} _ {k}. \tag {15}$$

We start by setting $\epsilon = 1$ and update control using (15) and then generate a new state sequence by forward simulation, that is, $\hat { x } _ { k + 1 } =$ $f ( \hat { x } _ { k } , \hat { u } _ { k } )$ . If the decrease in the cost function is not below a given threshold, the value of ǫ is decreased (e.g. by halving it as we did in our case), and we restart the forward pass again.
