A paradigm called the event-triggering scheme (ETS) [3] has been proven efficient. In ETS, the system state is continuously [3] or periodically [4] monitored as in the time-triggered control, but measurements are transmitted only when deemed “important”. This leads to a considerable decrease in resource occupancy while maintaining the system performance. In recent years, many variants of ETS have been proposed to further reduce transmissions; see, e.g., dynamic ETSs [5], [6]. However, it is difficult for these ETSs to realize continuous or periodic supervision of the system state. To overcome this difficulty, the concept of self-triggering scheme (STS) was proposed. Its core idea is to predict the next triggered instant based on a function constructed using the current sampled information as well as the system knowledge. Thus, in STS, the dedicated hardware in ETS is replaced with online [7], or offline [8] computations. In networked control systems under STS, sensors are allowed to be completely shut off between adjacent sampling instants, leading to additional energy savings compared to the ETS. Due to this advantage, the STS has been implemented in various fields [9]. It should be mentioned that most existing ETS and STS are designed for continuous-time systems. However, in the context of networked control systems, continuous-time systems are often controlled via digital computers, in which case one typically first discretizes a continuous-time system and works with the resulting discrete-time counterpart. Current literature has few results on discrete-time ETS/STS (e.g., [10], [11]).
