These developments have motivated our work in this paper, which is focused on data-driven control of discrete-time sampled-data systems under ETS and STS. As demonstrated in [5], under the dynamic ETS that contains an additional dynamic variable, the triggering events can be reduced significantly compared to static ETS [3] for continuous-time systems. In this paper, we develop a discrete-time dynamic ETS based on periodic sampling, which is reminiscent of the ETS [4] for continuous-time systems. For stability analysis of continuoustime sample-data systems, the looped-functional approach was proposed in [27] and subsequently explored by [26]. Loopedfunctionals often yield markedly improved stability conditions relative to common Lyapunov functionals, since the loopedfunctional is only required to be monotonically decreasing at sampling points but not necessarily between these points. We generalize the looped-functional approach to discretetime systems, by developing a discrete-time looped-functional (DLF) alternative, using which we derive model-based stability conditions for ETS. Combining this condition and the databased representation of discrete-time systems in [19], a databased stability condition is established, which provides a datadriven co-design method of the controller and ETS parameters.

On the other hand, a model-based discrete-time STS is designed, which can predict the next transmission instant without requiring online observation of state measurements between transmission times. For unknown discrete-time systems, it remains a key challenge to pre-compute the next execution time of sensor and controller using data, while ensuring stability under STS. To address this issue, we rewrite the discretetime sampled-data system as a switched system. Using the data-driven parametrization of switched systems in [25], a data-driven algorithm for pre-computing the next transmission instant is derived, which does not require any explicit model knowledge. Specially, the proposed STS law can be deduced to a special case of the dynamic ETS. Subsequently, the codesigned controller and triggering parameters under the ETS are employed to guarantee the stability of the system under the corresponding STS. In a nutshell, the main contributions of the present paper are summarized as follows:
