Motivated by these applications and to highlight challenges in learning-based optimal control, we study optimal admission control in an Erlang-B with finite waiting room queueing system with exponentially distributed service times, and known arrival rate, but unknown service rate, denoted by λ and $\mu ,$ respectively, with the goal of designing an optimal learning-based dispatching policy. At every arrival, the dispatcher can accept or block the arrival. Accepted jobs incur a holding cost c per unit time, and yield a fixed reward R (upon completion of service). To highlight learningrelated issues in a simple manner, we will consider two specific alternatives—either block all the arrivals or accept all the arrivals subject to available room. When the waiting room $N = 0 .$ , then the optimal admission control algorithm which can use the system occupancy information only needs to choose between these two options; this is not true when $N > 0$ where the dispatcher can use the system occupancy too. However, such a decision choice helps with determining whether such a service is worth it or not. Then, assuming that the service rate $\mu$ is known, the dispatcher can maximize its expected reward using a threshold policy: if the service rate exceeds a value $\mu ^ { * }$ , all arrivals are admitted subject to availability; otherwise, all arrivals are rejected, and when the service rate equals $\mu ^ { * }$ , the dispatcher is indifferent between admitting or rejecting arrivals.

A key aspect of our problem setting is that the information available to the dispatcher consists only of the inter-arrival times and the number of busy servers at each arrival, as the system is sampled at arrivals. Contrarily, the service rate, departure epochs, and service times are not known to the dispatcher. Hence, the dispatcher cannot form a direct estimate of the service rate (e.g., by taking an empirical average of the observed service times) to then choose its policy, and instead has to use the queueing dynamics to estimate the service time for policy determination. This facet of the problem brings it closer to practice (since continuous monitoring is memory and processing intensive), but also complicates the analysis. Based on this information structure, our focus is to design an optimal policy that maximizes the long-term average reward.
