Constants τ imax a $\tau _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { i }$ nd $\tau _ { \mathrm { M A D } } ^ { i }$ can be generated via an intuitive procedure, as described in Dolk et al. (2019). Theorem 2 implies that asymptotic consensus is achieved with the proposed control configurations in this paper.

We simulate the same system as Dolk et al. (2019) with non-uniform and time-varying transmission delays. However, in our case we implement our periodic event-triggered control framework instead of continuous-event triggered control as in Dolk et al. (2019). The system has $\breve { N } = 8$ agents which are connected as described by a graph with undirected edges $( 1 , 2 ) , ( 1 , 8 ) , ( 2 , 3 ) , ( 2 , 7 ) , ( 3 , 4 ) , ( 3 , 6 )$ , $( 4 , 5 ) , ( 5 , 6 ) , ( \breve { 5 } , 8 )$ and (7, 8). We use the parameters $\delta =$ $\dot { \alpha } _ { i } = 0 . 0 5 , \dot { a } \dot { = } 0 . 1$ and $\dot { \epsilon } _ { i } = 0 . 5$ for all $i \in \mathcal { N }$ . Given these tuning parameters, we obtain $\gamma _ { i } = 4 . 4 7 8$ and $c _ { i } = 0 . 7 6$ for agents $i \in \mathcal N$ with two neighbors $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } N _ { i } = 2 .$ , thus agents $P _ { 1 } , P _ { 4 } , P _ { 6 }$ and $P _ { 7 } )$ and $\dot { \gamma } _ { i } = 5 . \dot { 4 } 8 2$ and $c _ { i } = 0 . 6 6 5$ for agents $i \in \mathcal N$ with three neighbors $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } N _ { i } = 3 , $ , thus agents $P _ { 2 } , P _ { 3 } , P _ { 5 }$ and $P _ { 8 } )$ . The function $\varphi _ { i } ( \eta _ { i } )$ is designed as $\varphi _ { i } ( \eta _ { i } ) = - \epsilon _ { \eta } ( \eta _ { i } )$ with $\epsilon _ { \eta } = 0 . 0 5$ . We select $\lambda _ { i } = 0 . { \overset { \smile } { 2 } }$ for all agents, and pick $\phi _ { 0 , i } ( 0 ) = 5 $ and $\phi _ { 1 , i } = 2$ . For these values, we obtain $( \tau _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { i } , \tau _ { \mathrm { M A D } } ^ { i } ) = ( 0 . 1 2 , 0 . 0 1 6 )$ for agents $i \in \mathcal N$ for which $N _ { i } = 2$ and $( \tau _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { i } , \tau _ { \mathrm { M A D } } ^ { i } ) = ( 0 . 0 9 , 0 . 0 1 2 )$ for agents $i \in \mathcal N$ for which $N _ { i } = 3$ . We select $\tau _ { \mathrm { M I E T } } ^ { i } = 0 . 0 7$ $( \tau _ { \mathrm { M I E T } } ^ { i } = 0 . 0 5 )$ for all agents for which $N _ { i } = 2 ~ ( N _ { i } = 3 )$ , respectively, $\tau _ { \mathrm { M A S P } } ^ { i } = 1 0 ^ { - 2 }$ and $d _ { i } = 1 0 ^ { - 3 }$ for all $i \in \mathcal { N } . \mathrm { A t }$ each sampling moment $s _ { n } ^ { i } .$ , the next sampling moment is scheduled randomly such that $s _ { n + 1 } ^ { i } \in [ s _ { n } ^ { i } + d _ { i } , s _ { n } ^ { i } + \tau _ { \mathrm { M A S P } } ^ { i } ]$ for each $i \in \mathcal { N } .$ , hence the sampling of each agent is aperiodic, asynchronous and independent of the other agents. The state evolution and inter-event times are depicted in Fig. 3, confirming our main theorem.
