# I. INTRODUCTION

Sampled-data control has received considerable attention in the study of networked control systems thanks to its convenience in system design and analysis. Traditional sampleddata schemes, which are mostly time-triggered, feature low computational overhead and easy deployment, but they may incur a sizable number of “redundant” transmissions occupying network resources [1]. Therefore, periodic sampling/transmission schemes are not appealing in networked control systems when communication resources (e.g., energy of wireless transmitting nodes, or network bandwidth) are limited. Recently, research efforts have focused on developing transmission schemes that can use minimal communication resources while maintaining acceptable control performance; see, e.g., [2] for a survey.

This work was supported in part by the National Key R&D Program of China under Grant 2021YFB1714800, the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants 62088101, 61925303, 62173034, and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germanys Excellence Strategy - EXC 2075 - 390740016 and under grant 468094890. We acknowledge the support by the Stuttgart Center for Simulation Science (SimTech).

X. Wang, J. Sun, and G. Wang are with the Key Laboratory of Intelligent Control and Decision of Complex System, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 10081, China. J. Sun, and G. Wang are also with the Beijing Institute of Technology Chongqing Innovation Center, Chongqing 401120, China (e-mail: xinwang@bit.edu.cn; sunjian@bit.edu.cn; gangwang@bit.edu.cn).

J. Berberich and F. Allgower are with the University of Stuttgart, Institute ¨ for Systems Theory and Automatic Control, 70550 Stuttgart, Germany (e-mail: julian.berberich@ist.uni-stuttgart.de, frank.allgower@ist.uni-stuttgart.de).

J. Chen is with the Department of Control Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 201804, China, and also with the State Key Lab of Intelligent Control and Decision of Complex Systems, School of Automation, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China (e-mail: chenjie@bit.edu.cn).
