The motivation behind our proposed approach stems from the following observation: the dynamical programming equation involves the computation of the associated conditional expectation whose payoff function is the optimal value function solved from the previous step, and in the first step the payoff function will be the given utility function. The traditional approach to derive the HJB equation involves rewriting this conditional expectation as the solution to a corresponding parabolic PDE through the Feynman Kac theorem, whose coefficients depend on the unknown control. Then we “maximize” the PDE with respect to the unknown control, and substitute the solution back to the PDE to arrive at the nonlinear HJB PDE. We take an alternative route and express the conditional expectation using the conditional density function, for which we find a representation using property of the Dirac Delta function and its series representation.

The contributions of the paper are three-fold. First, we propose a novel time-stepping scheme to solve HJB equations involving recursive integrations at each step. The method is straightforwardly extended to the high-dimensional stochastic control problems. Second, the method can be applied to mixed control problems involving optimal stopping. Third, we demonstrate the accurateness and efficiency of the method in two-dimensional stochastic control problems arising from applications, involving Heston, rough Heston and representative stochastic local volatility models, e.g. the stochastic alpha beta rho (SABR) model.

The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces the delta family method for both one-dimensional and high-dimensional stochastic control problems. Section 3 illustrates the applications of the method to solving the optimal investment problem under the Heston model, the optimal reinsurance and investment problem under the Heston and rough Heston model, and also a mixed stochastic control problem under general stochastic local volatility models. Section 4 concludes the paper.
