According to (10), it follows that $\Delta V _ { a } < 0 .$

$I ) \Rightarrow 2 )$ . Assume 1) is satisfied. Similar to [27, Theorem 1], the following functional is introduced for $t \in \mathbb { N } _ { [ \tau _ { j } ^ { k } , \tau _ { j + 1 } ^ { k } - 1 ] }$

$$V _ {l} (x (t), t) = - V _ {a} (x (t)) + \frac {t}{\tau_ {j + 1} ^ {k} - \tau_ {j} ^ {k}} \Delta V _ {a}$$

which satisfies (10). Then, we have that

$$\Delta V (t) = V _ {a} (x (t + 1)) - V _ {a} (x (t)) - V _ {a} (x (t + 1))
\begin{array}{l} + V _ {a} (x (t)) + \frac {t + 1}{\tau_ {j + 1} ^ {k} - \tau_ {j} ^ {k}} \Delta V _ {a} - \frac {t}{\tau_ {j + 1} ^ {k} - \tau_ {j} ^ {k}} \Delta V _ {a} \\ = \frac {1}{\tau_ {j + 1} ^ {k} - \tau_ {j} ^ {k}} \Delta V _ {a} <   0. \\ \end{array}
$$

This proves the equivalence between 1) and 2).

Asymptotic stability. From the condition 1), we have that $\lvert | x ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } ) \rvert |  0$ as $k  \infty$ . Finally, similar to [31], [32], there exist $\delta \ < \ \infty$ yielding $| | x ( t ) | | \leq \delta | | x ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } ) | |$ for all $\begin{array} { r c l } { t } & { \in } & { \mathbb { N } _ { [ \tau _ { i } ^ { k } , \tau _ { i + 1 } ^ { k } - 1 ] } . } \end{array}$ j which implies that the system (5) is asymptotically stable under 1) or 2). □

Remark 2. Lemma 3 was inspired by the continuous-time looped-functional approach [27]. If compared to the discretetime Lyapunov stability theorem, Lemma 3 provides less conservative stability conditions by constructing a proper DLF for discrete-time sampled-data systems, since the added DLF is not necessarily a positive definite functional. This can be clearly seen from Fig. 3. Note that the discrete Lyapunov functional $V _ { a } ( t )$ is not required to decrease at each time t, but only at ordered and non-adjacent discrete points $t _ { k }$ . To the best of our knowledge, a DLF as in Lemma 3 has not yet been introduced in discrete-time sampled-data control systems.
