A detailed implementation of the example is available as supplementary material in a companion github repository19. Figure 7 provides graphical interpretations of the two-train example. In all the plots, the x-axis represents epoch (time). Part (a) shows the Train 2-Train 1 separation distance (in sections) as a function of the epoch, when the agent is doing the normal behavior, i.e., do action take loop, and the adversary is behaving arbitrarily, p and q are equal to 0.5. The average distance (three sections) indicates that more often the separation distance constraint is not violated. Part (b) also shows the Train 2-Train 1 distance as a function of the epoch, but this time the adversary figured out the behavior of the agent. The average distance (less than two sections) indicates that the separation distance constraint is often violated. Part (c) plots the value of state zero, in Figure 4(b), versus epoch. The adversary very likely learns the choices made by the agent, when at point 0. There is an insider leaking the information. Train 2 is likely to mimic Train 1. The probabilities of p and q are equal to 0.9. In such a case, for Train 1 the most rewarding choice is to take the loop. Part (d) shows the evolution of the probabilities of the actions, as the training of the quantum variational circuit pictured in Figure 6 progresses. They evolve consistently with the value of state zero (learning rate α is 0.01). The y-axis represents probabilities of selecting the actions take loop (square marker) and take bypass (triangle marker). Under this condition, quantum RL infers that the maximum reward is obtained selecting the take loop action. It has indeed higher probability than the take bypass action.
