With the function (32), the event-triggered condition is $\Gamma _ { i } ( z _ { i } , e _ { i } , m _ { i } , \kappa _ { i } , b _ { i } ) \geq 0$ . The proposed event-triggered condition is similar to those in [12], [14], [39] for the ETC in different contexts. Note that the function $\Gamma _ { i }$ is related to the local measurements and thus only for the single network, which in turn leads to the decentralized ETC setting in this paper. One difference between (32) and the existing ones lies in the local logical variable $b _ { i }$ , which leads to two cases in (32). Since the case $b _ { i } ~ = ~ 1$ implies that the update event will occur at the arrival instant, the ETM is not needed and $\Gamma _ { i } ( z _ { i } , e _ { i } , m _ { i } , \kappa _ { i } , 1 ) = - \gamma _ { i 1 } W _ { i } ^ { 2 } ( e _ { i } , m _ { i } , \kappa _ { i } , 1 ) < 0$ , which thus implies that the ETM will not be implemented in this case. In contrast, for the case $b _ { i } = 0$ , the next event is the transmission event, and the ETM is implemented to determine whether the sampled measurement will be transmitted. Hence, $\Gamma _ { i } ( z _ { i } , e _ { i } , m _ { i } , \kappa _ { i } , 0 ) = \gamma _ { i 0 } W _ { i } ^ { 2 } ( e _ { i } , m _ { i } , \kappa _ { i } , 0 ) - \rho _ { i } \bar { \lambda } _ { i } \varphi _ { i 0 } ( z _ { i } ) \geq 0$ will be verified in this case. As a result, the parameters in (33)- (34) only depend on the case $b _ { i } = 0$ , and all designed eventtriggered conditions are consistent with the transmission setup and decentralized since only local information is involved in each event-triggered condition.

Remark 4: In (32), if $\rho _ { i } \equiv 0$ for some $i \in \mathcal { N } .$ , then $\Gamma _ { i }$ is always positive, and thus the proposed ETC is reduced to the TTC as in [16], where $T _ { i }$ is called the maximally allowable transmission interval. Since all networks are independent, both TTC and ETC can be combined by allowing that some networks perform the TTC while the others perform the ETC, which is a potential extension of this paper. 

To establish the tradeoff between the MASP $T _ { i }$ and the $\mathbf { M A D } \ \Delta _ { i }$ , consider the following differential equation

$$\dot {\phi} _ {i b _ {i}} = - 2 L _ {i b _ {i}} \phi_ {i b _ {i}} - \gamma_ {i b _ {i}} [ (1 + \varrho_ {i b _ {i}}) \phi_ {i b _ {i}} ^ {2} + 1 ], \tag {35}$$

where is give $i \in \mathcal { N } , L _ { i b _ { i } } \geq 0$ is given in 6. In (35), $5 ,$ $\gamma _ { i b _ { i } } > 0$ $\varrho _ { i b _ { i } } \in ( 0 , \bar { \lambda } _ { i } ^ { - 2 } \phi _ { i b _ { i } } ^ { - 2 } ( 0 ) - 1 )$ −2 and thus the initial values $\phi _ { i b _ { i } } ( 0 ) \in ( 1 , \bar { \lambda } _ { i } ^ { - 1 } )$ , where $\bar { \lambda } _ { i }$ is given in (33). From Claim 1 in [40] and Claim 1 in [17], the solutions to (35) are strictly decreasing as long as $\phi _ { i b _ { i } } \geq 0$ .
