We end by contrasting our work with the literature on learning in stochastic dynamical systems. We study an example of a parametric learning problem for which we do not expect a single policy to achieve minimum regret in all regions of the parameter space. Whereas we don’t have an explicit proof of such a claim, the contrasting behavior an optimal adaptive control scheme must exhibit in different parameter regimes—quickly converging to always admitting arrivals if room versus quickly rejecting all arrivals—gives credence to the claim. We discuss the above point in Figure 1, which depicts the performance of our algorithm for functions $f ( n ) \in \{ n ^ { 2 . 5 } , \exp \left( n ^ { 0 . 6 } \right) , \exp ( n ) \}$ where $1 / f ( n )$ is proportional to the (forced) exploration probability. For $f ( n ) = n ^ { 2 . 5 }$ , exploration is employed aggressively, causing better performance for $\mu \in ( c / R , + \infty )$ , and higher regret in the other regime. Conversely, when $f ( n ) = \exp ( n )$ , aggressive exploitation is enforced, leading to the opposite behavior. For $\mu \in ( c / R , + \infty )$ , we show finite regret for $f ( n ) \in \{ n ^ { 2 . 5 } , \exp \left( n ^ { 0 . 6 } \right) \}$ in Section 3.2.2, but finite regret is not guaranteed for $f ( n ) = \exp ( n )$ in our analysis. In Section 3.2.2, when $\mu \in ( 0 , c / R )$ , we establish an $O ( \log ^ { 5 / 3 } ( n ) )$ regret bound for $f ( n ) = \exp { ( n ^ { 0 . 6 } ) }$ . Similar arguments lead to a $O ( \log ( n ) )$ upper bound for $f ( n ) = \exp ( n )$ in the same regime. From this discussion, we expect big differences in performance of any algorithm based on the parameter regime. Based on our numerical results, we also conjecture that for $\mu \in ( 0 , c / R )$ , there is an $\Omega ( \log ( n ) )$ regret lower bound. This is consistent with the lower bound on the asymptotic growth of regret from the literature on learning in unknown stochastic systems under the assumption that the transition kernels of the underlying controlled Markov chains are strictly bounded away from $0 ;$ see Agrawal et al. (1989), Graves and Lai (1997).

Furthermore, our simulation results in Section 5 provide evidence that depending on the relationship between the arrival rate and the service rate, sampling our continuous-time system at a faster rate than the arrivals could reduce the regret. We also show that subtle differences in variable updates in the learning scheme have a substantial impact on the regret achieved. Thus, the choice of the trade-off of regret between the different parameter regimes determines the learning scheme.
