Figs. 1a and 1b show the the total cost of the trajectory as a function of the iteration number with DDP, UDP, and sigma-point based FHDP (SPDP) methods. As the aim is to compare the performance of DDP, UDP, and different variations of SPDP methods, in Fig. 1a, we use SPDP with Gauss–Hermite quadrature rule of order $p = 3$ (we call this SPDP-GH) and set $\Sigma _ { k } \overset { \mathrm { ~ \bar { ~ } } } { \in } \ \{ 1 0 ^ { - 6 } I , 1 0 ^ { - 3 } I , 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I \}$ , where I is the identity matrix and $\Sigma _ { T }$ similarly. As can be seen from the figure, all the compared methods except for one SPDP converge to a very similar total cost. In the first few iterations, all methods have approximately similar total cost. In later iterations, however, SPDP-GH with the large covariance, say $\Sigma _ { T } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I$ and $\Sigma _ { k } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I ,$ , is slower to reduce the cost and hence requires more iterations to converge. This is expected because a large value for the covariance corresponds to FH expansion which averages the function over a large area around the nominal point. On the other hand, with a small covariance, say $\Sigma _ { T } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I$ , and $\Sigma _ { k } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I$ , the SPDP method coincides with DDP, which confirms the theoretical analysis of the method in Section IV-B. It can be seen that in this experiment both DDP and SPDP have better convergence speed than UDP. SPDP-GH with $\Sigma _ { T } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I$ , and $\Sigma _ { k } = \bar { 1 0 } ^ { - 1 } I$ has a slightly better cost reduction compared to DDP (see SPDP-GH $( 1 0 ^ { - 6 } { \dot { I } } )$ curve after 30 iterations).

Fig. 1b shows the performance of SPDP method with different sigma-point schemes. The schemes are Gauss–Hermite quadrature rule with $p = 3 , \Sigma _ { T } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I ,$ and $\Sigma _ { k } = 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I$ (SPDP-GH), 3rd (SPDP-UT3), 5th (SPDP-UT5), and 7th order (SPDP-UT7) unscented transforms, that is, spherical cubature rules [42]. We can see that the 3rd order cubature/unscented rule is not sufficient for computing the integrals for Fourier–Hermite coefficients as discussed in Section III-C (see the curve of SPDP-UT3 in Fig. 1b). The SPDP-GH, SPDP-UT5, and SPDP-UT7 methods converge with approximately similar number of iterations as DDP, and the performance is practically independent of the integration rule used.
