In particular, unscented DP [18] uses an unscented transform based method, inspired by the unscented Kalman filter [21], [22], to estimate the derivatives using a sigma-point scheme. This allows the DP algorithm to be derivative-free while leveraging information beyond a single point of evaluation and without compromising the performance of the classical DDP algorithm. Additionally, cubature approximations of stochastic continuous-time DDP are considered in [23] and probabilistic approximations based on Gaussian processes are considered in [24].

The contribution of this paper is to propose a method based on Fourier–Hermite series (cf. [25]) to approximate the actionvalue function. The resulting Fourier–Hermite dynamic programming (FHDP) algorithm can be implemented using sigma-point methods in a completely derivative-free manner, which leads to a new class of sigma-point dynamic programming (SPDP) methods. We also prove the local second-order convergence of the method and experimentally evaluate its performance against classical DDP and unscented DP. Unlike unscented DP or sparse Gauss–Hermite DDP, the method is guaranteed to converge in well-defined conditions, and it can also explicitly handle non-quadratic costs. Moreover, unscented DP requires the propagation of estimates in backward direction along the trajectory, which is not needed in our method.

The paper is structured as follows. In Sec. II, we revisit the DDP in discrete-time domain. In Sec. III, we first discuss Fourier–Hermite series and then use the Fourier–Hermite expansion to approximate the action-value function, leading to the proposed method. In Sec. IV, we analyze the computational complexity and prove the local convergence of the method, and in Sec. V we experimentally evaluate its performance. Concluding remarks are given in Sec. VI.
