Remark 9 (Summary of data-driven STS algorithm). According to (41), the next transmission instant can be computed using only collected dat $t _ { k + 1 }$ (5)and $\{ x ( T ) \} _ { T = 0 } ^ { \bar { \rho + s } - 1 }$ $\{ u ( T ) \} _ { T = 0 } ^ { \rho + s - 2 }$ . Note that the matrix $\tilde { \Theta } _ { A B } ^ { s }$ T =0 in (41) needs to be determined in advance from the given noise bound. To that end, we recall [25, Algorithm 1], which can be used to construct a lifted noise bound as in Assumption 2 based on pointwise bound $| | w ( T ) | | _ { 2 } \leq \bar { w }$ for all $T = 0 , \dots , \rho + s - 2$ with some $\bar { w } > 0$ . This leads to a lifted system parametrization as in (35). Then, we continuously check the data-driven self-triggering condition using the matrices $\tilde { \Theta } _ { A B } ^ { s }$ from [25, Algorithm 1]. The next triggering instant can be determined by checking the LMI (37) as soon as the current transmission instant and state become available.

Remark 10 (Motivation). This paper combines the data-driven control and ETS/STS for discrete-time sampled-data systems, where the co-design problem of the controller and the triggering matrix without any knowledge of the system model is solved. To the author’s knowledge, the only alternative to this approach in the current literature would be system identification, e.g., leastsquares estimation of the system matrices [15], followed by discrete-time ETS/STS in references [10], [11]. However, while the proposed approach guarantees that the closed-loop system under the designed ETS/STS is stable, such an identificationbased ETS/STS does in general not provide such guarantees, in particular when the data are affected by noise. This is due to the fact that 1) providing tight estimation bounds in system identification is in challenging, compare, e.g., [14]; and 2) [10], [11] only provide nominal results, i.e., error bounds arising from identification based on noisy data are not handled systematically.

TABLE II MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE h¯ WITH $\underline { { h } } = 1$ FOR DIFFERENT NOISE BOUNDS w¯ AND GIVEN K = −[3.75 11.5].
