$$\sum_ {t = \tau_ {j} ^ {k}} ^ {\tau_ {j + 1} ^ {k} - 1} \left[ \Delta V (x, t) + \eta (\tau_ {j + 1} ^ {k}) - \eta (\tau_ {j} ^ {k}) - \Delta \eta (t) \right] < 0, \forall x (\tau_ {j} ^ {k}) \neq 0 \tag {19}$$

which ensures $V _ { a } ( \tau _ { j + 1 } ^ { k } ) + ( h - 1 ) \eta ( \tau _ { j + 1 } ^ { k } ) < V _ { a } ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } ) + ( h -$ $1 ) \eta ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } ) , \forall j \in \mathbb { N } _ { [ 0 , m _ { k } ] }$ and $k \in \mathbb N$ . We conclude that System (5) and the dynamic variable $\eta ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } )$ converge to the origin asymptotically under our transmission scheme when $k  \infty .$ since $V _ { a } ( t ) > 0 , \eta ( \tau _ { i } ^ { k } ) > 0$ , and $x ( t )$ is bounded during $t \in \mathbb { N } _ { [ \tau _ { j } ^ { k } , \tau _ { j + 1 } ^ { k } - 1 ] }$ , thereby completing the proof.

Remark 3 (Discussion). Theorem 1 provides a stability criterion for the discrete-time system (5) under the dynamic triggering scheme (9) using the DLF approach in Lemma 3. The latter is a discrete-time version of the looped-functional approach [27] that has been applied to deduce less conservative stability conditions. In [11], [29], related stability criteria have been presented for the event-triggered control of discrete-time systems. However, under these results, the lower bound of the inter-execution interval is $t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k } \ = \ 1$ . Recently, a switching dynamic event-triggered control method for discretetime systems was proposed by [10], where a guaranteed lower bound larger than 1, i.e., $t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k } > 1$ , is beneficial for reducing the amount of transmissions. Our periodic-samplingbased dynamic ETS (9) explained in Section III-A only requires that $t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k } \geq h$ , where h is the periodic sampling interval. Based on Theorem 1, we can determine a possibly large value of h leading to stability, thus saving communication resources.

Remark 4 (DLF). A special case of DLF in the form of quadratic matrix functions is employed in (13). It can be proven that $V _ { l } ( x ( \tau _ { j } ^ { k } ) , \tau _ { j } ^ { k } ) = V _ { l } ( x ( \tau _ { j + 1 } ^ { k } ) , \tau _ { j + 1 } ^ { k } ) = 0 .$ , which satisfies condition (10) in Definition 1. In (13), only the system state and its single-summation terms are considered. Less conservative stability criteria can be derived if higher-order summation terms, e.g., multiple-summation of the system state, are included. This is left for future research.
