In the terms of RL, Train 1 has two actions available: take loop and take bypass. The agent gets k reward points for a relative Train 2-Train 1 distance increase of k sections with Train 2. It gets −k reward points, i.e., a penalty, for a relative Train 2-Train 1 distance decrease of k sections with Train 2. For example, let us assume that Train 1 is at point 0 and that Train 2 is at point 7. If both trains, progressing a the same speed, take the loop or both decide to take the bypass, then there is no relative distance change. The agent gets no reward. When Train 1 decides to take the bypass and Train 2 decides to take the loop, the agent gets two reward points, at return to point zero (Train 2 is at point five). When Train 1 decides to take the loop and Train 2 decides to take the bypass, the agent gets four reward points, at return to point zero (Train 2 is at point one, Train 2-Train 1 distance is five sections).

The corresponding MDP model is shown in Figure 4(b). The state set is $S = \{ 0 , 1 , 2 \}$ . The action set is $A = \{ a _ { 0 } =$ take loop, $a _ { 1 } = \mathrm { t a k e } \mathrm { b y p a s s } \}$ . The transition probability function is defined as $P _ { a _ { 0 } } ( 0 , 0 ) = p , P _ { a _ { 0 } } ( 0 , 1 ) = 1 - p , P _ { a _ { 1 } } ( 0 , 0 ) = q$ and $P _ { a _ { 1 } } ( 0 , 2 ) = 1 - q .$ . The reward functions is defined as $R _ { a _ { 0 } } ( 0 , 0 ) = 0 , R _ { a _ { 0 } } ( 0 , 1 ) = 4 , R _ { a _ { 1 } } ( 0 , 0 ) = 0$ and $R _ { a _ { 1 } } ( 0 , 2 ) = 2$ . This is interpreted as follows. In the initial state 0 with a one-section separation distance, the agent selects an action to perform: take loop or take bypass. Train 1 performs the selected action. When selecting take loop, with probability p the environment goes back to state 0 (no reward) or with probability 1 − p it moves to state 1, with a five-section separation distance (reward is four). When selecting take bypass, with probability q the environment goes back to state 0 (no reward) or with probability 1 − q it moves state 2, with a three-section separation distance (reward is two). The agent memorizes how good it has been to perform a selected action.
