As an example, an instance of the variational circuit design of Farhi and $\mathrm { N e v e n } ^ { 4 2 }$ is pictured in Figure 3. In this example, both m and n are three. It is a m-qubit circuit. A typical variational circuit line comprises three stages: an initial state, a sequence of gates and a measurement device. In this case, for $i = 0 , 1 , 2$ , the initial state is $\left| { \psi _ { i } } \right.$ . The gates are a parameterized rotation and a CNOT. The measurement device is represented on the extreme right box, with a symbolic measuring dial. The circuit variable parameter Θ is a three by three matrix of rotation angles. For $i = 0 , 1 , \ldots , m - 1$ , the gate $R o t ( \Theta _ { i , 0 } , \Theta _ { i , 1 } , \Theta _ { i , 2 } )$ applies the x, y and z-axis rotations $\Theta _ { i , 0 } , \Theta _ { i , 1 }$ and $\Theta _ { i , 2 }$ to qubit $\left| { \psi _ { i } } \right.$ on the Bloch sphere (see Box 3 for an introduction to the Bloch sphere concept). The three rotations can take qubit $\left| { \psi _ { i } } \right.$ i from any state to any state. To create entanglement between qubits, qubit with index i is connected to qubit with index i + 1, modulo m, using a CNOT gate. A CNOT gate can be interpreted as a controlled XOR operation. The qubit connected to the solid dot end, of the vertical line, controls the qubit connected to the circle embedding a plus sign. When the control qubit is one, the controlled qubit is XORed.

In our approach, quantum RL uses and train a variational circuit. The variational circuit maps quantum states to quantum actions, or action superpositions. The output of the variational circuit is a superposition of actions. During learning, the parameter Θ of the variational circuit is tuned such that the output of that variational collapses to actions that are proportional to their goodness, that is, the rewards they provide to the agent.

The training process can be explained in reference to Q-learning. For a brief introduction to Q-learning, see Box 4. The variational circuit is a representation of the policy π. Let $W ( \Theta )$ be the variational circuit. W is called a variational circuit because it is parameterized with the matrix of rotation angles Θ. The RL process tunes the rotation angles in Θ. Given a state $s \in S ,$ an action $a \in A$ and epoch t, the probability of measuring value a in the quantum state A that is the output of the system

$$\mathrm{A} = W (\Theta) | s \rangle$$

is proportional to the ratio
