# 3 Cyber-Physical Defense using Quantum Machine Learning

Machine Learning (ML) is about data and, together with clever algorithms, building experience such that next time the system does better. The relevance of ML to computer security in general has already been given consideration. Chio and Freeman27 demonstrated general applications of ML to enhance security. A success story is the use of ML to control spam emails metadata, source reputation, user feedback and pattern recognition are combined to filter out junk emails. Furthermore, there is an evolution capability. The filter gets better with time. This way of thinking is relevant to Cyber-Physical System (CPS) security because its defense can learn from attacks and make the countermeasures evolve. Focusing on CPS-specific threats, as an example pattern recognition can be used to extract from data the characteristics of attacks and to prevent them in the future. Because of its ability to generalize, ML can deal with adversaries hiding by varying the exact form taken by their attacks. Note that perpetrators can adopt as well the ML paradigm to learn defense strategies and evolve attack methods. The full potential of ML for CPS security has not been fully explored. The way is open for the application of ML in several scenarios. Hereafter, we focus on using Quantum Machine Learning (QML) for cyber-physical defense.

QML, i.e., the use of quantum computing for ML28, has potential because the time complexity of tasks such as classification is independent of the number of data points. Quantum search techniques are data size independent. There is also the hope that the quantum computer can learn things that the classical computer is incapable of, due to the fact that the former has properties that the latter does not have, notably entanglement. At the outset, however, we must admit that a lot remains to be discovered.
