Using the above discussion, it is possible for any $p \in$ $\{ 2 , \ldots , n _ { p } \}$ to search efficiently for a preferably large value for $\tau _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( r _ { k } ^ { + } )$ such that (14) holds. The dynamic STC mechanism can thus simply probe iteratively for all $p \in$ $\{ 2 , \ldots , n _ { p } \}$ the maximum value for $\tau _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( r _ { k } ^ { + } )$ for which it can be guaranteed that (14) holds. The maximum value is then used to determine the next sampling instant.

There may also be the situation, that for no $p \in$ $\{ 2 , \ldots , n _ { p } \}$ a guarantee that (14) holds can be obtained based on Proposition 1. In this case, the dynamic STC mechanism can chose $\tau _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ( r _ { k } ^ { + } ) ~ = ~ \dot { T } _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ( \mathcal { P } _ { 1 } , \lambda , c _ { U } , \tau _ { \mathrm { m a d } } )$ with $c _ { U } = \gamma _ { 1 , 1 } \phi _ { 1 , 1 } ( 0 )$ as a fall-back strategy. Then Proposition 1 implies due to Assumption 2 that

$$U _ {1} (\xi (r _ {k + 2} ^ {+})) \leq e ^ {- \epsilon_ {1} \tau_ {\max} (r _ {k} ^ {+})} U _ {1} (\xi (r _ {k} ^ {+})), \tag {21}$$

i.e., a certain decrease of $U _ { 1 }$ is guaranteed in this case which will be useful to obtain stability guarantees.

The overall procedure to determine $\tau _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( r _ { k } ^ { + } )$ is summarized in Algorithm 1, which is an adaption of (Hertneck and Allg¨ower, 2021c, Algorithm 2) to the setup and notation of this paper. We therefore omit a detailed explanation of Algorithm 1 and instead refer to (Hertneck and Allg¨ower, 2021c, Section III.B) for a thorough discussion of the Algorithm. We note that Algorithm 1 ensures either that (14) holds or that (21) holds and that it guarantees that $\tau _ { k } ^ { + } \geq t _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } : = T _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( \mathcal { P } _ { 1 } , \lambda , c _ { U } , \tau _ { \operatorname* { m a d } } ) \geq \tau _ { \operatorname* { m a d } }$ for $c _ { U } = \gamma _ { 1 , 1 } \phi _ { 1 , 1 } ( 0 )$ . We can now state the following result.
