Queueing systems. There is a growing body of work on learning-based control in discrete-time queueing systems; see Walton and Xu (2021). Krishnasamy et al. (2018, 2021) studied a discretetime multi-class, multi-server queueing system with unknown service rates. After imposing stability conditions, Krishnasamy et al. (2018) used a forced exploration-based learning scheme to prove finite regret compared to the cµ rule in a system with service rates known. Krishnasamy et al. (2021) used UCB and Thompson sampling-based algorithms to prove a polylogarithmic regret bound. Choudhury et al. (2021) proved an $\tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret over time horizon $T$ using a queue-length agnostic randomized-routing-based algorithm for a multi-server discrete-time queueing system. All of these works form empirical service rate estimates by observing service successes and failures.

Stahlbuhk et al. (2021) studied the problem of finding the optimum server for service in a discrete-time multi-server system with unknown service rates and a single queue and proves constant regret by sampling service rates during idle periods. Ojeda et al. (2021) employed generative adversarial networks to numerically learn the unknown service time distributions in a $G / G / \infty$ queuing system. Zhong et al. (2022) studied scheduling in a multi-class queue with abandonment with unknown arrival, service, and abandonment rates. By using service and patience times and forming estimates of the service and abandonment rates, logarithmic regret is shown using an exploration-exploitation based scheme. Zhang et al. (2022), Cohen et al. (2024) studied socialwelfare maximizing admission control in an $M / M / 1$ queuing system with unknown service and arrival rates; with system parameters known a threshold-based admission control scheme is optimal. By observing the queueing system at all times, they proposed a dispatching algorithm that achieves constant regret for one set of parameters, and $O ( \log ^ { 1 + \epsilon } ( n ) )$ regret for any $\epsilon > 0$ for another set of parameters (n is the number of arrivals).
