# 1 Introduction

Stochastic control generally refers to the study of dynamical systems subject to random perturbations and depending on the unknown control, and seeks to find the optimal control that maximizes or minimizes certain performance functions. It has applications in many areas in science, including applied mathematics, engineering, economics, and finance. In finance, it is usually associated with the maximization of expected utility function evaluated at the terminal wealth. There is a vast literature on expected utility maximization or optimal portfolio choice starting from the seminal work of Merton (1969). There are two fundamental approaches to solving stochastic control problems: first is the Bellman’s dynamical programming principle (DPP), which leads to the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) partial differential equation (PDE) to characterize the optimal value function; second is the Pontryagin’s maximum principle. In recent years there have been considerable developments within both approaches, in particular inspired by problems arising from mathematical finance. The introduction of viscosity solution allows for going beyond the classical verification Bellman approach, and sets a rigorous and suitable framework for studying stochastic control using the DPP approach. On the other hand, the Pontryagin’s maximum principle finds a suitable presentation with the backward stochastic differential equations (BSDEs). The viscosity solution and BSDE are related through the PDE representation.
