# 1. Introduction

Queueing systems are widely applicable models used to study resource allocation problems in communication networks, distributed computing systems, semiconductor manufacturing, supply chains, and many other dynamical systems. Queueing models are analyzed under various system information settings, but a common assumption is that the core system parameters like arrival rates, service rates and distributions are available to the system designer—see [Srikant and Ying (2013), Harchol-Balter (2013)]. However, there are many applications where these parameters are unknown, and the designer needs to learn them to be able to optimally assign jobs to the servers or block them. For example, the service rate of every server in large-scale server farms may be unknown, or the treatment times in hospitals may be unpredictable and time-varying.

The focus of this paper is learning based admission control in an $M / M / k / k + N$ system [Kelly (2011), Srikant and Ying (2013), Asmussen (2003)] with $N \geq 0$ but finite; we refer to this system as an Erlang-B with finite waiting room system. This system is widely applied for sizing related questions in telecommunications, network systems, call centers, manufacturing systems, healthcare, and transportation systems. The traditional use of these systems has been in telecommunication applications—for sizing and analyzing voice and circuit-switched systems, i.e., loss systems [Kelly (2011), Srikant and Ying (2013)]. In addition, it has also been used to study packetized data systems [Suter et al. (1999), Roberts (2004)], and multiple-access schemes in wireless networks (Marbach et al. (2011)). These models are also used in sizing, managing, and analyzing call-center systems [Gans et al. (2003)], where the finite queue represents the limited capacity to handle incoming calls. Such models are also used in production systems, where the finite buffer models the limited inventory for ongoing jobs [Ammar (1980), Berman (1982), Gershwin and Schick (1983), Dallery et al. (1988), Gershwin (2018)]. Finally, in transportation systems [Restrepo et al. (2009)] and healthcare [Green (2002), Fomundam and Herrmann (2007), De Bruin et al. (2007)], these models have been used to answer sizing questions related to ambulances, transit vehicles or hospital beds.
