c1) A dynamic ETS based on periodic sampling for discretetime systems, where the triggering condition depends on previously released data and current sampled data.   
c2) Model- and data-based stability conditions for discretetime systems under the dynamic ETS using a novel DLF approach, as well as model/data-driven methods for codesigning the controller and triggering matrices; and,   
c3) A model-based STS to predict the next transmission instant, and, building on this approach, a data-driven STS using only some pre-collected data from the system.

While we only focus on closed-loop stability in this paper, it is straightforward to extend our results to obtain performance guarantees, e.g., on the closed-loop $\mathscr { L } _ { 2 } \mathrm { { - g a i n } }$ , using similar arguments as in [4].

The rest of the paper is structured as follows. In Section II, we recall the problem setting as well as a discrete-time system representation which relies on noisy data. In Section III, an ETS control method for sampled-data systems is put forth, along with a DLF approach. Then, an STS is developed in Section IV. In both Sections III and IV, we present results for the modelbased as well as the data-driven case. Section V validates the merits and practicality of our methods and conditions using a numerical example. Section VI draws concluding remarks.

Notation. Throughout this paper, N, $\mathbb { R } ^ { + } , \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , and Rn×m denote the sets of all non-negative integers, non-negative real numbers, n-dimensional real vectors, and $n \times m$ real matrices, respectively. Then, we define $\mathbb { N } _ { [ a , b ] } : = \mathbb { N } \cap [ a , b ] , a , b \in \mathbb { N }$ . We write $P \succ 0 ( P \succeq 0 )$ if $P$ is a symmetric positive (semi)definite matrix; diag $\{ \cdots \}$ denotes a block-diagonal matrix; Sym $\{ P \}$ represents the sum of $P ^ { \top }$ and $P .$ . We write [·] if elements in the matrix can be inferred from symmetry. Let 0 (I) denote zero (identity) matrices of appropriate dimensions. Notation $\cdot _ { * } \cdot$ represents the symmetric term in (block) symmetric matrices. We use $\| \cdot \|$ to stand for the Euclidean norm of a vector.
