<table><tr><td>Espionage and sabotage of critical facilities, such as US data breach in 2021 due to the SolarWinds attack or attempts of Saudi Aramco cyber-sabotage of oil-processing facilities in 2020. Similar problems are spanning world-wide.</td><td>Adversarial actions in this scenario, include USB injection of corrupted software binaries, drive-by-download malware installation, spear phishing-based design of websites, and traditional social engineering manipulation of critical infrastructure employees.</td></tr><tr><td>Remote control of navigation systems, including successful hacking of autonomous cars and avionic systems. Studies and general concern started with a malware that infected over sixty thousand computers of an Iranian nuclear facility.</td><td>Adversarial actions include the use of infection vectors (e.g., USB drives), corrupted updates and patches, radio frequency jamming, radio frequency spoofing, and software binary manipulations.</td></tr><tr><td>Disruptions of large-scale industries have been appointed by the Federal Office for Information Security of Germany as a serious concern to European factory and industrial markets. Similar threats affect drones and smart cities, as well.</td><td>Adversarial actions include the use of GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite Systems) attacks, e.g., jamming of signals, spoofing and hijacking of communications to downgrade communications to insecure modes (e.g., from encrypted to plain-text communications).</td></tr></table>

The remaining sections are organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related work. Section 3 develops our approach, exemplified with a proof-of-concept. Section 4 discusses the generalization of the approach and open problems. Section 5 concludes the paper.
