$$\delta (x - a) = \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} \left(k + \frac {1}{2}\right) P _ {k} (x) P _ {k} (a),\delta (x - a) = \frac {e ^ {- (x ^ {2} + a ^ {2}) / 2}}{\sqrt {\pi}} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} \frac {1}{2 ^ {k} k !} H _ {k} (x) H _ {k} (a),\delta (x - a) = e ^ {- (x + a) / 2} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} L _ {k} (x) L _ {k} (a),$$

and each of the above respectively corresponds to the choices of $g _ { k } ( x ) = \left( k + { \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \right) ^ { 1 / 2 } P _ { k } ( x )$ , $\begin{array} { r } { g _ { k } ( x ) = \frac { 1 } { \pi ^ { 1 / 4 } 2 ^ { k / 2 } \sqrt { k ! } } e ^ { - x ^ { 2 } / 2 } H _ { k } ( x ) } \end{array}$ , and $g _ { k } ( x ) = e ^ { - x / 2 } L _ { k } ( x )$ . Here $P _ { k } ( x ) , H _ { k } ( x )$ and $L _ { k } ( x )$ are respectively the Legendre, Hermite and Laguerre polynomials, all of which are representative orthogonal polynomials. These series representations also appear in Theorem 2 on page 71 of Lebedev (1965). A proof based on asymptotic behaviors of the corresponding special functions can be found, for example, in (Li and Wong, 2013).

Our method is valid for the above three representations as well as others. To keep the discussion general, in the following we use the more generic representation (2.2). Combining (2.1) and (2.2), we obtain the following representation of the transition density function:

$$f (y \mid x) = \mathbb {E} _ {x} [ \delta (X _ {t + h} - y) ] = \mathbb {E} _ {x} \left[ \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} g _ {k} (X _ {t + h}) g _ {k} (y) \right] = \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} g _ {k} (y) \mathbb {E} _ {x} [ g _ {k} (X _ {t + h}) ]. \tag {2.3}$$

In the mult-dimensional setup, consider a multi-dimensional Markov process ${ \bf X } _ { t } : = { \bf \Phi }$ $( X _ { t } ^ { ( 1 ) } , X _ { t } ^ { ( 2 ) } , \cdots , X _ { t } ^ { ( n ) } )$ . We denote its its transition density by:

$$f (\mathbf {y} \mid \mathbf {x}) := P \left(\mathbf {X} _ {t + h} = \mathbf {y} \mid \mathbf {X} _ {t} = \mathbf {x}\right),$$

where $\mathbf { y } : = ( y _ { 1 } , y _ { 2 } , \cdots , y _ { n } )$ and $\mathbf { x } : = ( x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } , \cdots , x _ { n } )$ . It should be noted that we allow for the components of the multi-dimensional stochastic process $\mathbf { X } _ { t }$ to have non-zero correlations. We achieve the extension of our method by extending each of the key representations in the one-dimensional case. The following Lemma extends the equation (2.1) in Lemma 1 to the multi-dimensional case.

Lemma 2.2. We have the following representation of the d-dimensional transition density function:
