Assume that the system (8) has a unique solution for any initial condition and any input. All controllers (4) are stacked as

$$u = u _ {\mathrm{c}} + u _ {\mathrm{f}}, \tag {9}$$

and the feedback control input $u _ { \mathrm { c } } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ comes from the following feedback controller

$$\dot {x} _ {\mathrm{c}} = f _ {\mathrm{c}} (x _ {\mathrm{c}}, y _ {\mathrm{p}}, y _ {\mathrm{r}}, w _ {\mathrm{c}}), \quad u _ {\mathrm{c}} = g _ {\mathrm{c}} (x _ {\mathrm{c}}). \tag {10}$$

We assume that $f _ { \mathfrak { p } }$ and $f _ { \mathrm { c } }$ are continuous; $g _ { \mathrm { p } }$ and $g _ { \mathrm { c } }$ are continuously differentiable.

Our objective is to implement the designed controller (9) over both ETMs and multiple networks, and to demonstrate that the assumed tracking performance of the system (7)- (10) will be preserved approximately for the networked MAS under reasonable assumptions and the designed ETMs. To be specific, in the network-free case, the tracking performance in (6) for MAS is achieved under the controller (9). However, in the networked case, (6) may be not achieved due to network-induced constraints, which will be introduced in the next subsection. In addition, to mitigate the unnecessary waste of communication resources, the ETM is designed for each network to balance resource utilization and control performance. Therefore, our goal is to establish conditions on both the networks and the system (7)-(10) and to design decentralized ETMs to guarantee the approximate convergence of $x _ { \mathrm { p } }$ towards $x _ { \mathrm { r } }$ in the presence of the network-induced constraints and designed ETMs. Here, ‘approximate’ means that the convergence region depends not only on the external disturbance as in (6) but also on the network-induced errors.
