# REFERENCES

Anta, A. and Tabuada, P. (2010). To Sample or not to Sample: Self-Triggered Control for Nonlinear Systems. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 55(9), 2030–2042.   
Benedetto, M.D.D., Gennaro, S.D., and D’Innocenzo, A. (2013). Digital self-triggered robust control of nonlinear systems. Int. Journal of Control, 86(9), 1664–1672.   
Brunner, F.D., Heemels, W.P.M.H., and Allg¨ower, F. (2019). Event-triggered and self-triggered control for linear systems based on reachable sets. Automatica, 101, 15–26.   
Carnevale, D., Teel, A.R., and Nesic, D. (2007). A Lyapunov Proof of an Improved Maximum Allowable Transfer Interval for Networked Control Systems. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 52(5), 892–897.   
Delimpaltadakis, G. and Mazo, M. (2020). Isochronous Partitions for Region-Based Self-Triggered Control. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 66(3), 1160–1173.   
Delimpaltadakis, G. and Mazo, M. (2021). Region-Based Self-Triggered Control for Perturbed and Uncertain Nonlinear Systems. IEEE Trans. Control of Network Systems, 8(2), 757–768.   
Goebel, R. and Teel, A.R. (2006). Solutions to hybrid inclusions via set and graphical convergence with stability theory applications. Automatica, 42(4), 573–587.   
Heemels, W.P.M.H., Johansson, K.H., and Tabuada, P. (2012). An introduction to event-triggered and selftriggered control. In Proc. 51st IEEE Conf. Decision Control, 3270–3285.   
Heemels, W.P.M.H., Teel, A.R., van de Wouw, N., and Neˇsic, D. (2010). Networked Control Systems With Communication Constraints: Tradeoffs Between Transmission Intervals, Delays and Performance. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 55(8), 1781–1796.   
Hertneck, M. and Allg¨ower, F. (2021a). A Simple Approach to Increase the Maximum Allowable Transmission Interval. In Proc. 3rd IFAC Conf. on Modelling, Identification and Control of Nonlinear Systems (MIC-NON), 443–448. Tokyo, Japan.   
Hertneck, M. and Allg¨ower, F. (2021b). Dynamic selftriggered control for nonlinear systems based on hybrid lyapunov functions. In Proc. 60th IEEE Conf. Decision Control, 533–539.   
Hertneck, M. and Allg¨ower, F. (2021c). Robust dynamic self-triggered control for nonlinear systems using hybrid lyapunov functions. arXiv:2111.04347, under review.

Khalil, H. (2002). Nonlinear Systems Third Edition. Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ.

Mazo, M., Anta, A., and Tabuada, P. (2009). On selftriggered control for linear systems: Guarantees and complexity. In European Control Conf., 3767–3772.

Theodosis, D. and Dimarogonas, D.V. (2018). Self-Triggered Control under Actuator Delays. In Proc. 57th IEEE Conf. Decision Control, 1524–1529.

Tiberi, U. and Johansson, K.H. (2013). A simple selftriggered sampler for perturbed nonlinear systems. Nonlinear Analysis: Hybrid Systems, 10, 126–140.
