We define $\tau _ { n }$ as the index of the first arrival after $\beta _ { n }$ that finds the system empty, i.e., $\tau _ { n } =$ min $\left\{ i \geq 1 : N _ { \beta _ { n } + i } = 0 \right\}$ . Note that by (14), $W _ { n , \tau _ { n } } = X _ { \beta _ { n } + \tau _ { n } }$ . We claim that process $\{ X _ { n } \} _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty }$ at the first arrival acceptance after $\tau _ { n }$ , i.e., $X _ { \beta _ { n + 1 } }$ , is equal to $W _ { n , \tau _ { n } }$ . Indeed, process $\{ X _ { n } \} _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty }$ does not change when there are no departures or ongoing services. Hence, $W _ { n , 0 } = Y _ { n }$ and $W _ { n , \tau _ { n } } = X _ { \beta _ { n + 1 } } =$ $Y _ { n + 1 }$ . Thus, to analyze the convergence of $\{ Y _ { n } \} _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty }$ , we study the properties of process $\{ W _ { n , m } \} _ { m = 0 } ^ { \infty }$ and random variable $\tau _ { n }$ for $n \geq 1$ . We determine the behavior of $\tau _ { n }$ by coupling the system that runs Algorithm 1 with a system that accepts all arrivals (subject to availability) as follows.

Coupling of two systems: Let $Q ^ { ( n ) }$ denote the system that accepts all arrivals as long as it has at least one available server. We also define random variable $\zeta _ { n }$ as the first arrival after arrival $\beta _ { n }$ that finds $Q ^ { ( n ) }$ empty, starting from an empty state. Starting from arrival $\beta _ { n } .$ , we couple this system with the system that follows Algorithm 1 such that at each arrival, the number of busy servers in $Q ^ { ( n ) }$ is greater than or equal to our system. We couple the arrival sequences in both systems such that the inter-arrival times are equal. Moreover, when an arrival is accepted in both systems, we assume that its service time is identical in both. System $Q ^ { ( n ) }$ will accept all arrivals unless none of its servers are available. Suppose all of the servers of $Q ^ { ( n ) }$ are busy, and our system accepts an arrival. In this case, we assume that the service time of the accepted arrival in our system equals the remaining service time of the $k ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ server in $Q ^ { ( n ) }$ ), which has an exponential distribution with parameter $\mu$ due to the memoryless property. Using this coupling, we verify that all moments of $\tau _ { n }$ are finite in Lemma 1.

Lemma 1. All moments of random variable $\tau _ { n }$ are bounded by a constant independent of $n$ .
