# 1 Introduction

Networked-Control Systems (NCSs) integrate computation, communications and physical processes. Their design involves fields such as computer science, automatic control, networking and distributed systems. Physical resources are orchestrated building upon concepts and technologies from these domains. In a Networked-Control System (NCS), the focus is on remote control, which means steering at distance a dynamical system according to requirements. Determined according to a target behavior, feedback and corrective control actions are transported over a communication network.

In a NCS, networks and systems, sometimes called the plant, represent observable and controllable physical resources. The sensors correspond to observation apparatus. The actuators represent an abstraction of devices enabling the control of the networked system. Using signals produced by the sensors, the controller generates commands to the actuators. The coupling of the controller with actuators and sensors happens through a communications network. In contrast to a classical feedback-control system, NCSs provide remote control.

NCSs are flexible, but vulnerable to computer and network attacks. Adversaries build upon their knowledge about dynamics, feedback predictability and countermeasures, to perpetrate attacks with severe implications1–3. When industrial systems and national infrastructures are victimized, consequences are catastrophic for businesses, governments and society4. A growing number of incidents have been documented. Representative instances are listed in Box 1.
