Then the iteration produced by applying DDP to the modified model exactly matches the iterations generated by FHDP.

Proof: Substituting the modified cost function (45) to (5) reduces the action value function to (46). Then by Lemma 2, the second-order Taylor series expansions of the action-value function taken around ${ \hat { x } } _ { T }$ and $\hat { x } _ { k } , \hat { u } _ { k }$ match the Fourier–Hermite series expansions up to a constant which only depends on the nominal trajectory. The maxima of the Taylor-series based action-value functions with respect to the $u _ { k }$ also match the maxima obtained from the Fourier– Hermite series expansions (up to the constant). Therefore the control laws are the same and as the forward passes are the same, the iterations produce exactly the same result.

Theorem 1 (Quadratic convergence of FHDP): Assume that $f _ { k }$ is three times continuously differentiable and the transformed problem defined in Lemma 3 has a unique solution $( \bar { x } _ { 1 : T } ^ { * } , \bar { u } _ { 1 : T - 1 } ^ { * } )$ within a convex set D. Further assume that the second derivatives of the transformed action-value function in (46) with respect to uk are positive definite and all the iterates produced by FHDP $( \bar { x } _ { 1 : T } ^ { ( i ) } , \bar { u } _ { 1 : T - 1 } ^ { ( i ) } ) \in D$ (¯x(i)1:T , . Then the sequence of iterates $\bar { u } _ { 1 : T - 1 } ^ { ( i ) }$ produced by FHDP converges quadratically to the solution in the sense that where exist $\bar { c } > 0$ such that

$$\left\| \bar {u} _ {k} ^ {(i + 1)} - \bar {u} _ {k} ^ {*} \right\| \leq \bar {c} \left\| \bar {u} ^ {(i)} - \bar {u} _ {k} ^ {*} \right\| ^ {2}. \tag {47}$$

Proof: By Lemma 3, FHDP can be seen as DDP which finds the optimum of a transformed problem defined by (44), (45), and (46). The assumptions ensure that assumptions for Lemma 1 are satisfied which leads to the result.

Remark 1: Because the transformed model reduces to the original model when $\Sigma _ { T } , \Sigma _ { k } \to 0 .$ , in this limit, the results of FHDP and DDP match.

Remark 2: In Theorem 1 we had to assume that the dynamics are three times differentiable to adapt the existing DDP convergence results to the current setting. However, as the Fourier–Hermite expansion is always formed for $Q _ { k } ,$ the convergence result should apply even in the case that the dynamics are not three times differentiable as long as the transformed $\bar { Q } _ { k }$ is smooth, which it in very general conditions is.
