We study the problem of learning the service rate in the framework of parametric learning of a stochastic dynamical system. Specifically, consider a stochastic system governed by parameter θ:

$$X _ {t + 1} = \mathscr {F} _ {t} (X _ {t}, U _ {t}, W _ {t}; \theta), \quad t = 0, 1, \dots \tag {1}$$

where $X _ { t } \in \mathcal { X } , U _ { t } \in \mathcal { U } , W _ { t } \in \mathcal { W }$ are the state of the system, control input, and noise at time t and $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ is any measurable function. Further, $\theta \in \Theta$ is a fixed but unknown parameter, and the initial state and noise process are mutually independent. In line with the literature, we study a system where our controller perfectly observes the state $X _ { t }$ and uses its history of observations to choose the control $U _ { t }$ . For a specified reward function $r _ { t } ( x , u )$ for $( x , u ) \in \mathcal { X } \times \mathcal { U }$ , the objective is to maximize the long-term reward. We also assume that the optimal policy $\mathcal { G } ^ { * } ( . ; \theta )$ is known for each $\theta \in \Theta$ .

To achieve the optimization objective whilst learning the unknown parameter θ, an adaptive control law is applied: using past observations $X _ { 1 : t }$ , an estimate $\widehat { \theta } _ { t + 1 }$ is formed, and then by the certainty equivalent control principle, the optimal policy according to $\widehat { \theta } _ { t + 1 }$ , or $\mathcal { G } ^ { * } \big ( . ; \widehat { \theta } _ { t + 1 } \big )$ , is applied. One approach to form the estimate $\widehat { \theta } _ { t + 1 }$ is to use the maximum likelihood estimate (MLE). Mandl (1974) prove that under identifiability, the MLE converges to the true parameter. When these conditions do not hold, Kumar and Becker (1982), Kumar and Lin (1982) use reward bias-based exploration schemes to ensure asymptotic optimality. Our problem fits the above paradigm: the system state $X _ { t }$ is the number of busy servers at time t with the dispatcher observing the (continuous-time) system state at arrivals, and the unknown parameter is the service rate $\mu ,$ so $\Theta = \mathbb { R } _ { + } \ ^ { 1 }$ . Using an adaptive control law with (necessitated) forced exploration, we propose a dispatching policy to maximize the long-term average reward. Our main analysis-related contributions are:
