That being said, the quantum paradigm will render obsolete a number of cyber-physical security technologies. Solutions that are assumed to be robust today will be deprecated by quantum-enabled adversaries. For example, adversaries that will capable of brute-forcing and taking advantage of the upcoming quantum computing power. Disciplines, such as cryptography, are addressing this issue. Novel post-quantum cryptosystems are facing the quantum threat. Other fields, however, have overlooked the eventual existence of quantum-enabled adversaries. Cyber-physical defense, a discipline complementary to cryptography, is a proper example. It uses artificial intelligence mainly to detect anomalies and anticipate adversaries. Hence, it enables NCSs with capabilities to detect and react in response to cyber-physical attacks. More concretely, it involves the integration of machine learning to identify adverse events and prepare response plans, while and after incidents occur. An interesting question is the following. How a defender will face a quantum-enabled adversary? How can a defender use the quantum advantage to anticipate response plans? How to ensure cyber-physical defense in the quantum era? In this paper, we investigate these questions. We develop foundations of a quantum machine learning defense framework. Through an illustrative example, we show that a defender can leverage quantum machine learning to address the quantum challenge. We also highlight some recent methodological and technological progress in the domain and remaining issues.

Box 1 - Representative cyber-physical attacks documented in the media.
