# 1. INTRODUCTION

Distributed and multi-agent control systems, including the consensus problem, have attracted a lot of attention in recent years. When these systems communicate via a packetbased network, information is sparsely available. In these cases, event-triggered control can be used. Event-triggered control consists of generating the input signal and updating it over the packet-based network at some time instants, which are based on the available plant/agent information, to guarantee relevant stability and performance properties, see, e.g., Heemels et al. (2012). A triggering condition is thus synthesized and monitored to decide whether a new transmission is needed. Due to the fact that these conditions are often processed on a digital platform, it is essential to take the sampling behavior of the platform into account, especially when fast sampling is not possible, e.g. in case of low-power electronics, in which case we talk of periodic event-triggered control, see, e.g., Heemels et al. (2013). Moreover, in practice, the communication network suffers from imperfections such as time-varying and unknown delays, which may destroy stability of the closed-loop system. While there is abundant literature on the event-triggered control of multi-agent systems, see, e.g., Nowzari et al. (2019) and references therein, to the best of our knowledge, none of the proposed approaches in the literature consider all of the following aspects:

(1) nonlinear multi-system setup,   
(2) fully distributed and asynchronous configuration,   
(3) implementability on digital platforms,   
(4) unknown and time-varying sampling and transmission delays,   
(5) general stability and performance properties for (possibly unbounded) attractors (as in consensus).

Many works treat a subset of these aspects. A prominent example is, e.g., the recent work by Yu and Chen (2021), which provides important advancements on the nonlinear case with (large) unknown transmission delays while taking sampling into account. The main focus of our paper is providing a unifying framework addressing all of these aspects.
