1. $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } g \left( T _ { i } , M _ { i } , c / R \right) > \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } h \left( T _ { i } , N _ { i } , c / R \right) } \end{array}$ implies that ${ \hat { \mu } } _ { n } > c / R$   
2. $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } g \left( T _ { i } , M _ { i } , c / R \right) \leq \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } h \left( T _ { i } , N _ { i } , c / R \right) } \end{array}$ implies that ${ \hat { \mu } } _ { n } \leq c / R .$

In Case 1, the MLE indicates the always admit if room policy is optimal. In our proposed policy, we follow the MLE whenever Case 1 applies and admit the arrival (if there is a free server). In contrast to Case 1, the MLE in Case 2 suggests blocking all arrivals. However, if we follow the MLE in both cases, we may falsely identify the service rate and incur linear regret. Notably, using the optimal policy in Case 2 results in no arrivals and new system samples. Thus, in Case 2, our policy will not use the certainty equivalent control with a small probability that converges to 0. Finally, we introduce Algorithm 1 for optimal dispatch in an Erlang-B system with unknown service rate. Notice that when $N = 0$ , the boundary value $\mu ^ { * }$ is equal to $c / R$ .

We label the policy in Algorithm 1 as $\pi _ { \mathrm { A l g 1 } }$ . Then $S ( n )$ is defined as the last arrival instance before or at arrival n when the system is empty. The probability of using the sub-optimal policy in Case 2 is equal to $p _ { \alpha _ { n } } = 1 / f \left( \alpha _ { n } \right)$ , where a valid function $f : \mathbb { N } \cup \{ 0 \}  [ 1 , \infty )$ is increasing and converges to infinity as $\alpha _ { n }$ goes to infinity. Further, $\alpha _ { 0 } = 0$ and $\alpha _ { n }$ is defined as below for $n \geq 1$

$$
\alpha_ {n} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \alpha_ {n - 1} + 1, & \text { if } \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n - 1} g (T _ {i}, M _ {i}, c / R) \leq \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n - 1} h (T _ {i}, N _ {i}, c / R), A _ {n - 1} = 1, N _ {n - 1} = 0, \\ \alpha_ {n - 1}, & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {10}
$$

In other words, $\alpha _ { n }$ is the number of accepted arrivals $0 \leq l < n$ such that $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { l } g _ { i } \left( c / R \right) \le \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { l } h _ { i } } \end{array}$ and the system is empty right before arrival l. We also note that any choice of $f \geq 1$ that increases to infinity leads to asymptotic optimality of $\pi _ { \mathrm { A l g 1 } }$ , as proved in Section 3.2.1. However, the class of admissible functions is restricted in Section 3.2.2 to provide finite-time guarantees.
