All above-mentioned triggering schemes are model-based, namely they require explicit knowledge of system models. Nonetheless, obtaining accurate system models can be computationally demanding and oftentimes impossible in realworld applications. Naturally, an interesting question is how to co-design a controller and a triggering scheme without any knowledge of the system model. Measured data sequences, in practice, can be easily obtained. One solution to the above question is to first estimate a model based on measured data, also known as system identification [12], and subsequently, perform model-based system analysis and controller design (see, e.g., [13] for a survey). Yet, such a two-stage approach comes with an unavoidable drawback; that is, it is hard to provide an accurate model with guaranteed uncertainty bounds from limited and noisy data [14], [15]. An alternative approach, the so-called data-driven control, recently received increasing attention. Data-driven control is aimed at learning control laws directly from data without resorting to any prior system identification steps. Under this umbrella, various results have been presented, including state-feedback and optimal control [16], [17], robust control [18], [19], control of timedelay systems [20], predictive control [21], and more can be found in the survey [22]. By wedding the data-driven system representation in [19] with the model-based approach in [23], a data-based stability condition for continuous-time sampled-data control systems was derived in [24], along with a controller design proposal. This data-driven framework has been extended to discrete-time sampled-data systems [25]. Data-driven ETS for continuous-time sampled-data systems with delays has been recently investigated in [26]. It remains an untapped field to co-design a data-driven controller and ETS/STS for unknown discrete-time sampled-data systems.
