There are various methods for solving stochastic control problems arising from utility maximizations in the literature. One approach is of analytical nature and focuses on numerically solving the related HJB equation, which is a nonlinear PDE, see Forsyth and Labahn (2007); White and Reisinger (2011). An alternative approach is of probabilistic nature and utilizes the martingale duality method, see Karatzas et al. (1991); Cvitanic and Karatzas (1992). A recent account of the current literature is provided in Pham (2009) and references therein. An extension to the finite-maturity utility maximization problem is to allow the investor to “exit” before the maturity in order to achieve the overall maximization of the expected utility. This leads to a mixed stochastic control problem which involves both optimal control and optimal stopping, see Karatzas and Wang (2000). Although there is extensive literature on the study of one-dimensional stochastic control problems, in contrast, the literature on high-dimensional stochastic control is relatively thin, see Belomestny et al. (2010) for a Monte Carlo regression approach, and Han and E (2016), Hur´e et al. (2021) for deep learning approach. Note that there are also further extensions of the utility maximization problem to allow for (fixed or proportional) transaction costs (Guasoni and Muhle-Karbe, 2013) or taxes (Tahar, 2010). We focus on the high-dimensional finite-maturity optimal control and mixed control problems in this paper, and leave the consideration of these further extensions to future research.
