Reinforcement learning (RL). Recently, RL methods have been applied to queueing problems with the goal of finding the average cost optimal policy, in both known model and cost parameter cases (Dai and Gluzman (2022)), and unknown parameter cases with available rewards (Massaro et al. (2019)). These methods do not apply to our setting as we neither observe the reward sequence nor know the expected rewards: the random reward is a linear function of the service times of accepted jobs which are not observed, and the expected reward is a function of the unknown arrival and service rates. We only observe the system state: a nonlinear and complex function of the reward. Similarly, other reward-based schemes used in the bandit literature (Lattimore and Szepesv´ari (2020))—such as UCB or “estimate and then commit with expanding horizons for commitment”—do not directly apply since the reward signal is not available. One could potentially use model knowledge (with parameters unknown) and then a combination of Poisson Arrivals See Time Averages (PASTA) and Little’s law—see Srikant and Ying (2013), Harchol-Balter (2013)— to estimate the reward for each policy being used, but getting statistical performance guarantees (based on duration of use of each policy) from such estimates, especially coming from the use of PASTA, is an open question. In contrast to the model-agnostic viewpoint in RL, we use the knowledge of the queueing dynamics to design an algorithm matched to our setting. Although RL methods do not apply to our setting, in Section 5, we consider a fictitious setup wherein the service times are observed and implement an average reward RL algorithm, R-learning (Schwartz (1993), Sutton and Barto (2018)), as a representative of reward-based RL algorithms. Despite not observing the service times, our policy outperforms R-learning, providing evidence that modelclass knowledge can be as effective as observing the reward signal; see Figure 4. In Figure 4, we also compare our algorithm to a Thompson sampling-based algorithm (Gopalan and Mannor (2015)) used in the frequentist sense (see Agrawal and Jia (2017)), showing that our algorithm using model-class knowledge is again as effective as Thompson sampling (which essentially encodes model knowledge in the prior).
