As outlined in Section 2, our objective is to identify the best policy within the policy class $\Pi =$ $\left\{ \pi _ { a } , \pi _ { b } \right\}$ . In the following arguments, we show that when N equals zero, the optimal policy is either $\pi _ { a }$ or $\pi _ { b } .$ , and hence, the best-in-class policy coincides with the optimal policy. In Arapostathis et al. (1993), it is shown that there exists a stationary deterministic policy that achieves the optimal average reward. In our model, for every stationary deterministic policy $\pi : \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , k \}  \{ 0 , 1 \}$ such that $\pi ( k ) = 0$ , the discrete-time Markov chain attained by sampling the queueing system at job arrivals forms a unichain process Puterman (1990); in other words, it consists of a single recurrent class and a possibly non-empty set of transient states. Let i denote the smallest state such that $\pi ( i ) = 0$ , i.e., the action taken according to policy $\pi$ at state i is to reject the arrival. The resulting Markov Chain forms a single recurrent class $\{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , i \}$ and states $\{ i + 1 , \ldots , k \}$ are transient. Each $0 \leq i \leq k$ corresponds to a different class of stationary deterministic policies. Denote the class of stationary deterministic policies corresponding to threshold i by $\Pi ^ { i }$ ; notice that $\Pi ^ { k } = \{ \pi _ { a } \}$ and $\Pi ^ { 0 } = \left\{ \pi _ { b } \right\}$ . In each of the $k + 1$ different classes of the stationary deterministic policies, the underlying Markov process has a unique stationary distribution. Let $\eta ^ { i }$ be the corresponding unique stationary distribution of a Markov chain found by following a stationary deterministic policy in class Πi. $\eta ^ { i }$ is given by

$$
\eta^ {i} (j) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {(\frac {\lambda}{\mu}) ^ {j} \frac {1}{j !}}{\sum_ {l = 0} ^ {i} (\frac {\lambda}{\mu}) ^ {l} \frac {1}{l !}}, & 0 \leq j \leq i \\ 0. & i + 1 \leq j \leq k \end{array} \right. \tag {2}
$$

$\mathrm { A s }$ the state and action space are finite and the Markov process is unichain, from Arapostathis et al. (1993), for every deterministic stationary policy $\pi \in \Pi ^ { i }$ , the limit in (3) exists, is independent of the initial state, and equals

$$\lim _ {n \to \infty} \frac {1}{n} \sum_ {l = 0} ^ {n - 1} \mathbb {E} ^ {\pi} [ K (A _ {l}, \sigma_ {l}) ] = \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {i - 1} \left(R - \frac {c (j + 1)}{\lambda + \mu}\right) \eta^ {i} (j) - \frac {c i}{\lambda + \mu} \eta^ {i} (i), \tag {3}$$
