# 3.3 Scheduler synthesis

Once one has constructed traffic models, they can be employed for the synthesis of schedulers. The goal of a scheduler, in our context, is to specify when each of the considered ETC systems should trigger, such that no overlap of their events occur, while still retaining stability of each of the ETC systems (which is guaranteed if always triggering before ?? (??)).

The tool currently considers two methods to synthesize schedulers. The first method relies on the use of UPPAAL. As already indicated in Section 3.1, the general traffic models constructed by ETCetera are equivalent to Timed Automata. Our tool exports the resulting models as timed automata that can be read and manipulated by UPPAAL to synthesize schedulers or check properties of the systems at hand.

The second synthesis method [42] follows from recognizing that the specialized traffic models constructed for PETC are finite transition systems (see Sec. 3.2). As such this method is only applicable for these traffic models. Furthermore it is assumed that the sampling time for each of the systems is identical. First, the representation of the traffic models is modified such that it acts on a per-sample basis. Instead of having actions corresponding to the next intersample time $\mathcal { U } = \mathcal { Y } = \left\{ 1 , 2 , \dots , k _ { m a x } \right\}$ as in the models described in Section 3.2, a system can either wait (‘?? ’) , or trigger (‘?? ’) at the current sampling time. The result is a new transition system $\hat { S } = ( \hat { X } , \hat { X _ { 0 } } , \hat { \mathcal { U } } , \hat { \hat { \mathcal { E } } } , \hat { \dot { y } } , \hat { H } )$ , where:

$\bullet \ \hat { X } : = \{ T _ { x } \mid x \in X \} \cup \{ W _ { x , j } \mid j < H ( x ) , x \in X \} ,$   
• Xˆ0 ⊆ {???? | ?? ∈ X},   
• Uˆ := {?? , ?? },   
$\begin{array} { r l } & { \bullet \widehat { \mathcal { E } } : = \{ ( T _ { x } , t , T _ { x ^ { \prime } } ) \mid ( x , 1 , x ^ { \prime } ) \in \mathcal { E } \} \cup \{ ( W _ { x , j } , w , W _ { x , j + 1 } ) \mid 1 \leq } \\ & { \quad j < H ( x ) - 1 \} \cup \{ ( W _ { x , j } , t , T _ { x ^ { \prime } } ) \mid ( x , j + 1 , x ^ { \prime } ) \in \mathcal { E } \} , } \end{array}$   
• $\hat { \pmb { y } } = \{ T _ { 1 } , T , 1 , \dotsc , k _ { m a x } - 1 \} ,$   
• ${ \hat { H } } ( T _ { x } ) = T _ { 1 } { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } H ( x ) = 1 { ; }$ , or ?? otherwise, and $\hat { H } ( W _ { i , j } ) =$ $H ( i ) - j .$
