Once such traffic models are available they can be employed for two main purposes: analysis of metrics such as average inter-sample times measuring the efficiency of an ETC design [14, 16]; or for synthesis of scheduling strategies [35], or optimized sampling strategies [12]. Synthesizing scheduling strategies is a necessary capability when implementing event triggered control systems sharing a communication medium. The aim of the schedulers synthesized is to prevent multiple control-loops (or other real-time tasks) requesting a channel access simultaneously, which would lead to communication collisions and potentially to control instability. One may achieve such scheduling goal by enabling earlier transmissions than dictated by the ETC mechanism, or even by allowing switching between different triggering conditions. In a similar way, the traffic models can be employed to optimize sampling strategies by enforcing, at times, earlier sampling of the control loop than that dictated by ETC. The rationale in this optimization is that while one is generally interested in minimizing the cumulative or average amount of communications employed, ETC approaches are greedy in trying to optimize such goals, i.e. they try to enlarge as much as possible each individual inter-sample time interval. In general, greedy optimization approaches are suboptimal, and as such early triggering can be used as a control variable to optimize beyond what the greedy ETC strategies can attain.

All of these developments: model construction, analysis, and synthesis of schedulers or sampling strategies, are automated techniques that rely on heavy computation. In the present paper we describe a toolbox that implements all these developments. The tool is named ETCetera and is available at https://github.com/synclab/ETCetera. It allows the user to:

(1) Construct traffic models of nonlinear ETC systems with arbitrary triggering conditions and disturbances;   
(2) Construct specialized traffic models of Linear PETC systems with Quadratic triggering conditions;   
(3) Export models to UPPAAL [11] for scheduler synthesis;   
(4) Synthesize schedulers effectively for several PETC systems sharing a channel;   
(5) Synthesize optimized sampling strategies;

(6) Analyze PETC systems through the computation of traffic metrics;

In what follows, we provide a brief introduction to event-triggered control and other needed preliminaries (Section 2), describe the steps involved in the abstractions the tool constructs (Sections 3.1 and 3.2), present the approach implemented in ETCetera for PETC scheduler design (Section 3.3), and briefly introduce other synthesis and analysis problems also implemented in the tool (section 3.4). Finally, Section 4 provides the basic instructions of use of the tool, which are then illustrated on several examples.
