As adaptive control [15] has a long history of success in controlling nonlinear systems with parametric uncertainty, there is also a rich line of work that unites CLFs and CBFs with techniques from adaptive control. The authors of [16] extend the adaptive CLF (aCLF) paradigm [15, Ch. 4.1] to CBFs, yielding the first instance of an adaptive CBF1 (aCBF) that allows for the safe control of uncertain nonlinear systems with parametric uncertainty. The authors of [18]–[20] extend the aCBF techniques from [16] using set-membership identification, concurrent learning (CL) [21], [22], and hybrid techniques, respectively, which were shown to reduce the conservatism of original aCBF formulation. Nevertheless, all of the aforementioned aCBF techniques are limited to CBFs with relative degree one. In practice, however, many safetycritical constraints have relative degrees larger than one (e.g., constraints on the configuration of a mechanical system generally have at least relative degree two). The unification of CLFs/CBFs with techniques from CL adaptive control was also presented in [23], [24]; however, the resulting CLF controllers either only guarantee uniformly ultimately bounded stability or are limited to single-input feedback linearizable systems. Importantly, the CL-based aCBF controllers from [23], [24] do not provide strong safety guarantees since the CBF-based control inputs are generated using the estimated dynamics without accounting for estimation errors, leading to potential safety violations that can be understood through the notion of input-to-state-safety [25].

To address high relative degree safety constraints for systems with known dynamics, the authors of [26]–[29] introduce exponential and high order CBFs (HOCBFs), which provide a systematic framework to construct CBFs that account for high relative degree constraints. Importantly, as noted in [29], HOCBFs can also be used to simplify the search for valid CBFs since the dependence on higher order dynamics need not be directly encoded through the definition of the CBF itself (as in the relative degree one case). Rather, the dependence on higher order dynamics is implicitly encoded through conditions on higher order derivatives of the CBF candidate. Despite the advancements of both aCBFs and HOCBFs, to our knowledge, the intersection of these two techniques has yet to be explored in the literature.
