# IV. SYNTHESIS OF STABILIZING STATE-FEEDBACK CONTROLLER

Definition 1 was introduced for the NCS consisting of the continuous-time plant and the discrete-time controller. The inequality condition (15) in the definition, however, can be equivalently rewritten as that for the corresponding discretetime system, i.e.,

$$\sqrt {E [ | | x _ {k} | | ^ {2} + | | u _ {k - 1} | | ^ {2} ]} \leq a \lambda^ {k} \sqrt {| | x _ {0} | | ^ {2} + | | u _ {- 1} | | ^ {2}}(\forall k \in \mathbf {N} _ {0}, \forall x _ {0} \in \mathbf {R} ^ {n}, \forall u _ {- 1} \in \mathbf {R} ^ {m}), \tag {16}$$

by using (9). This implies that stabilization in the sense of Definition 1 may be achieved by designing a state-feedback controller (14) that stabilizes the discretized model (10) by viewing it as a standard discrete-time stochastic system (with one step input delay). This section discusses such synthesis.

Let us formally introduce the new state variable

$$x _ {\mathrm{e}, k} = u _ {k - 1}, \tag {17}$$

and construct the extended system

$$
\hat {x} _ {k + 1} = \hat {A} (\xi_ {k}) \hat {x} _ {k} + \hat {B} u _ {k}, \quad \hat {x} _ {k} = \left[ \begin{array}{l} x _ {k} \\ x _ {\mathrm{e}, k} \end{array} \right], \tag {18}

\hat {A} (\xi_ {k}) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A (\xi_ {k}) & B (\xi_ {k}) \\ 0 & 0 \end{array} \right], \quad \hat {B} = \left[ \begin{array}{l} 0 \\ I \end{array} \right] \tag {19}
$$

from (10). Obviously, the behavior of this system is consistent with that of the discretized model (10). With the state vector $\hat { x } _ { k }$ of this extended system, (14) can also be rewritten as

$$u _ {k} = \hat {F} \hat {x} _ {k}, \quad \hat {F} = [ F _ {1}, F _ {2} ]. \tag {20}$$

Then, we see that the discrete-time closed-loop system

$$\hat {x} _ {k + 1} = (\hat {A} (\xi_ {k}) + \hat {B} \hat {F}) \hat {x} _ {k} \tag {21}$$

consisting of the extended system (18) and the controller (20) corresponds to the discrete-time counterpart of the present NCS without loss of generality.

For such a closed-loop system, (16) can be further equivalently rewritten as

$$\sqrt {E [ | | \hat {x} _ {k} | | ^ {2} ]} \leq a \lambda^ {k} \sqrt {| | \hat {x} _ {0} | | ^ {2}}(\forall k \in \mathbf {N} _ {0}, \forall \hat {x} _ {0} \in \mathbf {R} ^ {n + m}). \tag {22}$$

This is nothing but the inequality condition for defining second-moment exponential stability of discrete-time stochastic systems (see, e.g., Definition 2 in [11]). The explicit definition is given as follows.
