# 2.2 Transition systems

The ETC traffic models built by the ETCetera tool can be encapsulated as generalized transition systems, following the definition from Tabuada in [41]:

Definition 1 (Transition system). A system S is a tuple (X, X0, U, E, Y, ?? ) where:

• X is the set of states,   
• $\chi _ { 0 } \subseteq \chi$ is the set of initial states,   
• U is the set of actions,   
• $\mathcal { E } \subseteq \mathcal { X } \times \mathcal { U } \times \mathcal { X }$ is the set of edges (or transitions),   
• $_ y$ is the set of outputs, and   
• $H : X  y$ is the output map.

A (transition) system is said to be finite if X and U are finite; this is the case of automata, for which efficient tools exist for verification of properties and synthesis of controllers. A close relative, but infinite-state, for which such tools also exist is a timed automaton [3], in which a finite system is equipped with a finite set of clocks $c _ { i }$ whose values can only vary according to $\dot { c } _ { i } = 1$ or be reset on edges. A transition on a system is denoted by $x \stackrel { u } { \to } x ^ { \prime }$ meaning that $( x , u , x ^ { \prime } ) \in \mathcal { E }$ . An infinite run of a system is a sequence $x _ { 0 } \xrightarrow { u _ { 0 } }$ $x _ { 1 } \xrightarrow { u _ { 1 } } x _ { 2 } . . .$ , and the set of all possible runs of S is called its internal behavior set. Every run maps into an external behavior, or trace ??0??0??1??1??2... by taking $y _ { i } = H ( x _ { i } )$ . The set of all possible traces (or infinite external behavior set) of S is denoted by ${ \mathcal { B } } _ { S }$ .

An abstraction is a simpler version of a system preserving some of its properties. For verification, an abstraction needs to preserve the external behavior set ${ \mathcal { B } } _ { S }$ (possibly including additional “spurious” behaviors), while for control synthesis it needs to, loosely writing, preserve the behaviors that can be enforced by the controller through its action set. The associated formal notions are, respectively, (bi)simulations and alternating (bi)simulations. See [41] for the formal definitions and associated methods. In this work, ETC systems and their sampling behaviors are abstracted by finite transition systems or timed automata; in this way, the constructed abstractions are used either to verify properties (verification) of a given ETC system’s behavior or to synthesize traffic schedulers (control synthesis) that avoid packet collisions in networks shared by multiple ETC loops.
