As can be observed from the above purpose, our arguments are related with variable sampling/transmission intervals and variable transmission delays, which are two of the five types of imperfections and constraints in NCSs mentioned in [2]. The influence of the communication delays in NCSs has been studied from various aspects since the article [6] was presented; see, e.g., the survey papers [1], [2], [3] and other sophisticated articles for details. In the case of internally stable plant $P _ { \mathrm { c } }$ , it may be possible to ensure deterministic stability of the corresponding NCS regardless of the boundedness of the delays, since a stable plant without input is naturally stable. In the case of unstable plant $P _ { \mathrm { c } }$ , on the other hand, it is theoretically impossible to ensure deterministic stability of the corresponding NCS under unbounded timevarying communication delays. Hence, if one desires to deal with unbounded communication delays in the unstable case, some kind of ideas such as using stochastic models are required.

If the delays are modeled by a stochastic process, there is a room to deal with an unbounded support for the process even in the unstable case [7], [8]. Indeed, given a controller (which was designed for a virtual ideal NCS without communication delays), the earlier study [8] discussed stability analysis of an NCS in the presence of stochastic communication delays with unbounded support. To the best of the author’s knowledge, however, there exist no earlier studies that enable us to design controllers directly (i.e., without relaxation) for NCSs in the presence of stochastic communication delays with unbounded support; the Markovian approaches, e.g., in [9], [10] are also no exception since the support of a finitemode Markov chain is obviously bounded. By exploiting the results in the author’s earlier study [11] about state feedback synthesis for discrete-time stochastic systems, the present

This work was partially supported by JST PRESTO Grant Number JPMJPR2127 and JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number 20K04546. Y. Hosoe is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Kyoto University, Nishikyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8510, Japan hosoe@kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp

paper discusses synthesis of state-feedback controllers stabilizing NCSs, which are optimal in the sense of stochastic stability at sampling points.
