In this system the behaviour that a scheduler should prevent, i.e. two or more systems triggering simultaneously, is captured by actions which contain two or more more $\dot { } _ { t ^ { } \mathbf { S } . }$ Here it is assumed that the fundamental checking period ℎ of each of the PETC loops is the same. Since after triggering a subsystem always lands in a state with output $T / T _ { 1 }$ , the scheduler requirement can alternatively be expressed as: ‘Avoid states in $S _ { c o m p }$ . whose output contains more than one $T '$ . Creating a controller that is able to avoid these states can be done effectively for finite transition systems by solving a safety game (c.f. Chapter 6 of [41]). In this safety game, the maximal fixed point of the operator

$$F _ {W} (Z) = \{x \in Z \mid x \in W \land \exists u \in U (x): \emptyset \neq P o s t _ {u} (x) \subseteq Z \}, \tag {10}$$

is found by iterating over its output (starting with $Z _ { 0 } : = X _ { c o m p . } )$ . The set ?? is the safe set which in this case is given by:

$$W = \{(x _ {1}, \dots , x _ {n}) \in \mathcal {X} _ {\text { comp. }} | | \{i \mid \hat {H} _ {i} (x _ {i}) \in \{T _ {1}, T \} \} | \leq 1 \}. \tag {11}$$

The maximal fixed point $Z ^ { \ast } : = F _ { W } ( Z ^ { \ast } )$ contains states in $S _ { c o m p . }$ (given that $Z ^ { * } \neq \emptyset )$ from which there exists at least one action guaranteeing that a bad state (a collision of triggering events) can be avoided. The scheduler can subsequently be defined as

$$U _ {c} (x) = \{u \in \mathcal {U} _ {\text { comp. }} \mid \emptyset \neq \text { Post } _ {u} (x) \subseteq Z \}. \tag {12}$$

This is a function that returns a set of safe actions given some state $x \in \chi _ { c o m p . }$ , which one can obtain from the last sampled states of each of the control systems. The scheduler keeps track of the current state of each $\hat { S } _ { i }$ and based on this collection of states, $U _ { c } ( x )$ provides a safe action, after which each of the states is updated according to $\hat { \varepsilon } _ { i }$ . Note that after a transmission, due to the nondeterminism of the original traffic model, one needs to rely on the value of the measured plant state to determine the corresponding successor state.

To improve the efficiency and scalability of this approach, two additional techniques are implemented (for details see [42]):

(1) Partitioning and Refinement: In this approach the size of each $\hat { S } _ { i }$ is reduced by grouping together similar states (partitioning). If no scheduler is found for these reduced systems, these blocks are split apart (refinement) and the safety game is performed again.   
(2) Binary Decision Diagrams (BDDs) [6]: representing the transition systems with BDDs the manipulation of the transition systems (including partitioning and refinement) can be performed more efficiently, enabling the implementation of the safety-game fixed-point iteration symbolically.
