# 1 INTRODUCTION

Since the seminal works of Åström [5] and Årzen [1], and in particular since the work of Tabuada [40], there has been a surge of interest in the use of event-based controller update techniques in order to reduce the resource consumption of (networked) control systems. Despite the myriad of proposals made in the literature, very little attention has been given, until recently, to the quantification of the benefits of such proposals. As such, little was known about the sampling patterns arising from so called event-triggered control (ETC) systems, what is their efficiency (e.g. what is the average inter-sample time), or how hard are they to schedule.

In the past decade this gap in the literature was addressed in a number of papers. Both analytical [36, 37] and computational approaches [12–16, 18, 20, 21, 32, 35] have been pursued to study ETC’s sampling behaviour. Particularly, the computational approach builds on the notion of abstractions. These abstractions distil the sampling-times’ dynamics from ETC’s hybrid dynamical model, and serve as a computationally tractable object which may be employed to address a wide range of verification and synthesis questions on

Gabriel de A. Gleizer

g.gleizer@tudelft.nl

Delft University of Technology

Delft, The Netherlands

Manuel Mazo Jr.

m.mazo@tudelft.nl

Delft University of Technology

Delft, The Netherlands

ETC’s sampling patterns. For their construction, the state-space of the control system is partitioned in an informed way. The resulting abstraction is either a timed-automaton (TA), or in the case of periodic ETC (PETC) a finite transition system (FTS), capturing the sampling times’ dynamics. We call these objects traffic models, evoking how they model the communication traffic (of measurements and actuation commands) generated by the control system.
