# 3.4 Other synthesis and analysis problems

As mentioned in the introduction, traffic abstractions for PETC can also be used for quantitative analysis and other synthesis problems, as recently demonstrated in [12, 14]. For quantitative problems, the transition systems from Def. 1 are equipped with a weight function $\gamma : \mathcal { E }  \mathbb { Q } ,$ , mapping edges to rational numbers representing the weight or value of a transition. These systems are called weighted transition systems (WTSs) [7]. For every run $x _ { 0 } \xrightarrow { u _ { 0 } } x _ { 1 } \xrightarrow { u _ { 1 } } x _ { 2 } .$ .. of S we can thus compute a sequence of weights ??0??1??2..., giving rise to the set of all weight sequences $\mathcal { W } _ { S } .$ . For ETC, we are interested in computing or maximizing the smallest average inter-sample time (SAIST) of a system; hence, the weight of a transition is its intersample time. The SAIST of a PETC traffic model S is formally defined as

$$\text { SAIST } (\mathcal {S}) = \inf _ {w _ {0} w _ {1} w _ {2} \dots \in \mathcal {W} _ {\mathcal {S}}} \operatorname * {l i m i n f} _ {n \to \infty} \frac {1}{n + 1} \sum_ {i = 0} ^ {n} w _ {i}. \tag {13}$$

A lower bound to the SAIST of a PETC system can be computed using Karp’s algorithm [8, 31] on the abstraction. In some cases, the abstraction can be a smallest-average-cycle-equivalent simulation [14, 16], a property that can be verified for PETC of linear systems: in this case, the SAIST from the abstraction is exact.

In order to do synthesis, we equip the PETC traffic model with early-triggering samples as in the scheduling problem, and solve a mean-payoff game [25], obtaining a lower bound to the optimal sampling strategy [12]. The strategy is a function mapping a region $\mathcal { R } _ { i }$ onto an inter-sample time choice ??, becoming effectively a selftriggered control scheme [4, 34, 44]. The idea behind the approach in [12] is to sample early in some regions of the state-space to collect long-term benefits, something that the shortsighted ETC cannot do. The abstractions contain long-term traffic information which allows better strategies to be computed. In [12], the SAIST of a numerical example nearly doubled using this approach.
