Compared to the above earlier studies, the advantages of the proposed approach can be summarized as follows: (i) the time-varying communication delays are not required to be deterministically bounded; (ii) the distributions of the delays are arbitrary as long as they are given by i.i.d. processes; (iii) the derived synthesis-oriented inequality condition is necessary and sufficient in terms of discrete-time stochastic stability (specifically, second-moment exponential stability, which is also called mean square exponential stability); (iv) the synthesis using the above condition is direct (i.e., no relaxation is introduced).

This paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces NCSs with random communication delays to be dealt with in this paper. Section III describes the discretized model of the NCSs, and states the associated controller synthesis problem. Then, Section IV discusses our main results about stabilizing controller synthesis. For derivation of the inequality conditions about the synthesis, the results in [11] about stochastic systems are exploited. Section V numerically illustrates our synthesis, and Section VI gives concluding remarks.

We use the following notation in this paper. The set of real numbers, that of positive real numbers and that of nonnegative integers are denoted by R, $\mathbf { R } _ { + }$ and $\mathbf { N } _ { 0 } ,$ , respectively. The set of n-dimensional real column vectors and that of $m \times n$ real matrices are denoted by $\mathbf { R } ^ { n }$ and $\mathbf { R } ^ { m \times n }$ , respectively. The set of $n \times n$ positive definite matrices is denoted by $\mathbf { S } _ { + } ^ { n \times n }$ . The identity matrix of size n is denoted by $I _ { n } .$ . The Euclidean norm of the vector (·) is denoted by $| | ( \cdot ) | |$ . The vectorization of the matrix (·) in the row direction is denoted by row(·), i.e., $\operatorname { r o w } ( \cdot ) : = [ \operatorname { r o w } _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) , \dots , \operatorname { r o w } _ { m } ( \cdot ) ]$ , where m is the number of rows of the matrix and $\mathrm { r o w } _ { i } ( \cdot )$ denotes the ith row. The Kronecker product is denoted by ⊗. The expectation (i.e., the expected value) of the random variable (·) is denoted by $E [ ( \cdot ) ]$ ; this notation is also used for the expectation of a random matrix. If s is a random variable obeying the distribution D, then we represent it as $s \sim \mathcal { D }$ .
