# 3.1 Experimental setup

We present benchmark results for various control algorithms, including a traditional control algorithm and three state-of-the-art reinforcement learning algorithms:

• SPGD (Stochastic Parallel Gradient Descent) algorithm with PID controller: SPGD is a widely used approach for controlling optical systems (Cauwenberghs, 1993; Zhou et al., 2009). In SPGD, the objective gradient estimation is achieved by applying a random perturbation to the time delay value, denoted as δτ . The update formula is $\tau ( t + 1 ) = \tau ( t ) + \eta [ P _ { N } ( \tau ( t ) + \delta \tau ) - P _ { N } ( \tau ( t ) ) ] \delta \tau$ , where η is the update step-size. The output of the SPGD algorithm is then sent to a PID controller to control the system. In this work, we refer to the SPGD-PID controller as the SPGD controller.   
• PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization) is an on-policy reinforcement learning algorithm (Schulman et al., 2017). It efficiently updates its policy within a trust region by penalizing KL divergence or clipping the objective function.   
• SAC (Soft Actor-Critic) is an off-policy reinforcement learning algorithm (Haarnoja et al., 2018). It learns two Q-functions and utilizes entropy regularization, where the policy is trained to maximize a trade-off between expected return and entropy.   
TD3 (Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic policy gradient) is an off-policy reinforcement learning algorithm (Fujimoto et al., 2018). It learns two Q-functions and uses the smaller of the two Q-values to form the targets in the loss functions. Additionally, TD3 adds noise to the target action for exploration.

We used the algorithms implemented in stable-baselines-3 (Raffin et al., 2019). The training procedure for an RL agent consists of multiple episodes, and each episode consists of 200 steps. Across each of the experimental configurations, we executed the experiments with 20 different random seeds and present the mean results accompanied by their respective standard deviations. A detailed explanation of RL algorithms and their associated hyperparameters is presented in appendices B.1 and B.2.
