# III. HIGH ORDER ROBUST ADAPTIVE CONTROL BARRIER FUNCTIONS

This section introduces the concept of a High Order Robust Adaptive Control Barrier Function (HO-RaCBF), which provides a tool to synthesize controllers that guarantee the satisfaction of high relative degree safety constraints for nonlinear systems with parametric uncertainty. To this end, we now turn our attention to systems of the form

$$\dot {x} = f (x) + Y (x) \theta + g (x) u, \tag {4}$$

where f and g are known locally Lipschitz vector fields as in $( 1 ) , Y : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times p }$ is a known locally Lipschitz regression matrix, and $\theta ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is a constant vector of uncertain parameters. We assume that $f ( 0 ) = 0$ and $Y ( 0 ) = 0$ so that 0 is an equilibrium point of the unforced system. Our main objective is to synthesize controllers for (4) that guarantee safety under the presumption that the function h defining the safe set C as in (2) has a high relative degree with respect to (4). To facilitate our approach, we make the following assumption on the structure of the uncertainty in (4).

Assumption 1. Consider a set as in (2) and an open set as in Def. 2. If h has relative degree r on $\mathcal { R } \subseteq \mathcal { D }$ with respect to (4) (i.e., if there exist some nonempty $\mathcal { R } \subseteq \mathcal { D }$ such that $L _ { g } L _ { f } ^ { i - 1 } h ( x ) \equiv 0 $ for all $1 \leq i \leq r - 1$ and $L _ { g } L _ { f } ^ { r - 1 } h ( x ) \neq 0$ for all $x \in \mathcal { R } )$ , then there exists $\mathcal { R } ^ { \prime } \subseteq \mathcal { D }$ such that $L _ { Y } L _ { f } ^ { i - 1 } h ( x ) \equiv 0$ for all $1 \leq i \leq r - 1$ and $L _ { Y } L _ { f } ^ { r - 1 } h ( x ) \breve { \neq 0 }$ for all $x \in \mathcal { R } ^ { \prime }$ .

Remark 1. The above assumption requires that the uncertainty in (4) does not appear before the control when taking higher order derivatives of h. Although this may seem restrictive, a variety of physical systems satisfy Assumption 1. Examples include Lagrangian mechanical systems, where h is a function of only the system’s configuration. If the above assumption is not made, then the uncertain parameters θ will appear alongside the control input u in higher order terms, complicating the formulation of the affine constraints on u developed in this paper. From an adaptive control perspective, Assumption 1 is similar to the assumption that the uncertain parameters satisfy the matching condition.
