After selecting the pulses, the real-time delay $\tau _ { \mathrm { r e a l } } ( t + 1 )$ is imposed on them using delay line devices, which introduce additional time delays for the pulses. The state transition process is governed by the combination of the current state, the action taken, and the noise present. The specific form of the state transition follows the principles of coherent light interference (Saleh & Teich, 2019). Let $f$ be an interference observation function. Then the state transition can be written as:

$$s _ {t + 1} = f \left(\tau_ {\text { real }} (t + 1)\right) = f \left(\tau_ {\text { real }} (t) + a _ {t} + e _ {t}\right) = f \left(f ^ {- 1} \left(s _ {t}\right) + a _ {t} + e _ {t}\right) \tag {5}$$

It is important to note that the slow-changing noise term $\mathbb { E } \left[ e _ { t } \right] = \mu _ { t }$ follows a piecewise linear function that changes slowly over time. During episodic training for RL agents, $\mu _ { t }$ can be treated as a constant value within an episode. However, the value of $\mu _ { t }$ may vary from one episode to the next. In this case, assuming that $\mu _ { t }$ changes very slowly, the OPS control process can be modeled as a Markov decision process (MDP).

<table><tr><td>Mode</td><td>Initial state</td><td>Noise</td><td>Objective</td></tr><tr><td>Easy</td><td>near the optimum</td><td>time-independent: $\frac{d\mu_t}{dt} \equiv 0$ </td><td>convex</td></tr><tr><td>Medium</td><td>random</td><td>time-independent: $\frac{d\mu_t}{dt} \equiv 0$ </td><td>non-convex</td></tr><tr><td>Hard</td><td>random</td><td>time-dependent: $\frac{d\mu_t}{dt} \not\equiv 0$ </td><td>non-convex</td></tr></table>

Table 1: Different difficulty modes on OPS.

```python
from optics_env import OPS_env
env = OPS_env(stage=5, mode="medium")
env.reset()
done = False
while not done:
    action = env.action_space.sample()
    observation, reward, done, info = env.step(action)
    env.render() 
```  
Figure 4: Example code of the OPS environment.
