# III. DISCRETIZATION OF NCS AND STABILIZATION PROBLEM

We deal with the NCS Σ in a discrete time domain (i.e., at sampling points). Under the aforementioned settings, the relationship between the continuous-time signals and the discrete-time signals is given by

$$x _ {k} = x _ {\mathrm{c}} (t _ {k}), \quad u _ {\mathrm{c}} (t) = u _ {k - 1} \quad (t \in [ t _ {k}, t _ {k + 1}), k \in \mathbf {N} _ {0}). \tag {9}$$

With this relationship, the discretized model of the continuous-time plant $P _ { \mathrm { c } }$ can be given as

$$x _ {k + 1} = A (\xi_ {k}) x _ {k} + B (\xi_ {k}) u _ {k - 1}, \tag {10}A (\xi_ {k}) = e ^ {A _ {\mathrm{c}} h _ {k}}, \quad B (\xi_ {k}) = \int_ {0} ^ {h _ {k}} e ^ {A _ {\mathrm{c}} t} B _ {\mathrm{c}} d t \tag {11}$$

(recall (5) and (8)). For this discretized model, we introduce the following assumption.

Assumption 2: The squares of entries of $A ( \xi _ { k } )$ and $B ( \xi _ { k } )$ 号 in (11) are all Lebesgue integrable for $k = 0 ,$ , i.e.,

$$E [ A _ {i j} (\xi_ {0}) ^ {2} ] < \infty (i, j = 1, \dots , n), \tag {12}E [ B _ {i j} (\xi_ {0}) ^ {2} ] < \infty (i = 1, \dots , n; j = 1, \dots , m), \tag {13}$$

where $A _ { i j } ( \xi _ { 0 } )$ and $B _ { i j } ( \xi _ { 0 } )$ are the $( i , j )$ -entries of $A ( \xi _ { 0 } )$ and $B ( \xi _ { 0 } )$ , respectively.

This assumption is a minimal requirement1 for defining second-moment stability (in a discrete-time domain) for the present structure of NCS. Hence, this assumption has the role of specifying the class of NCSs that can be dealt with in the framework of second-moment stability; if this assumption is not satisfied, it is impossible to stabilize the NCS in the second moment.

1This can be proved with Lemma 1 in [12], although details are omitted. As in (10), the discretized model has one step input delay, which naturally stems from the communication delays. Taking into account this input delay, we consider the following class of state-feedback controller as Ψ (the delayed input is dealt with as part of the system state in the discrete time domain).

$$u _ {k} = F _ {1} x _ {k} + F _ {2} u _ {k - 1} \tag {14}$$

Then, the second-moment exponential stability of the NCS Σ with the plant (1) and the controller (14) can be defined as follows.
