# I. INTRODUCTION

The problem of developing control policies that guarantee stability and safety of nonlinear control systems has received significant attention in recent years. In particular, the unification of Control Lyapunov Functions (CLFs) [1], [2] and Control Barrier Functions (CBFs) [3], [4] has provided a pathway towards safe and stable control of complex nonlinear systems such as autonomous vehicles [5], [6], multiagent systems [7], and bipedal robots [8]. Although powerful, the guarantees afforded by these approaches are modelbased, hence the success in transferring such guarantees to real-world systems is inherently tied to the fidelity of the underlying system model. Inevitably, such models are only an approximation of the true system due to parametric uncertainties and unmodeled dynamics, thus there is strong motivation to study the synthesis of CLF and CBF-based controllers in the presence of model uncertainty. Although robust approaches [9], [10] have demonstrated success in this regard, in general, such techniques can be highly conservative. On the other hand, data-driven approaches have demonstrated the ability to reduce uncertainty and yield high-performance controllers in terms of both safety and stability. Popular data-driven approaches for reducing uncertainty include work based on episodic learning [11], [12] or by modeling the uncertainty using Gaussian processes (GPs) [13], [14]. However, providing strong guarantees in

The authors are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Boston University, 110 Cummington Mall, Boston, MA 02215, United States {maxcohen,cbelta}@bu.edu. This work is supported by the NSF under grants DGE-1840990 and IIS-2024606. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF. an episodic learning setting is challenging and, although GP-based approaches account for very general classes of uncertainties, GPs can be computationally intensive and the generality offered by GPs generally results in probabilistic, rather than deterministic, guarantees on stability and safety.
