In the field of optics and photonics, Stochastic Parallel Gradient Descent (SPGD) algorithm with a PID controller has traditionally been employed to tackle control problems (Cauwenberghs, 1993; Zhou et al., 2009; Abuduweili et al., 2020a). These problems typically involve adjusting system parameters, such as the delay line of mirrors, with the objective of maximizing a reward, such as optical pulse energy. SPGD is a specific case of the stochastic error descent method (Cauwenberghs, 1993; Dembo & Kailath, 1990), which operates based on a model-free distributed learning mechanism. The algorithm updates the parameters by perturbing each individual parameter vector, resulting in a decrease in error or an increase in reward. However, the applicability of SPGD is limited to convex or near-convex problems, while many control problems in optics exhibit non-convex characteristics. As a result, SPGD struggles to find the global optimum of an optics control system unless the initial state of the system is in close proximity to the global optimum. Traditionally, experts would manually tune the initial state of the optical system, followed by the use of SPGD-PID to control the adjusted system. Nevertheless, acquiring such expert knowledge becomes increasingly challenging as system complexity grows.

To enable efficient control and automation in optical systems, researchers have introduced deep reinforcement learning (RL) techniques (Tünnermann & Shirakawa, 2019; Sun et al., 2020; Abuduweili et al., 2020b; 2021). Previous studies predominantly focused on implementing Deep Q-Network (DQN) (Mnih et al., 2013) and Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) (Lillicrap et al., 2015) in simple optical control systems, aiming to achieve comparable performance to traditional SPGD-PID controllers (Tünnermann & Shirakawa, 2019; Valensise et al., 2021). However, there is a lack of research evaluating a broader range of RL algorithms in more complex optical control environments. The exploration and evaluation of RL algorithms in realworld optical systems pose significant challenges due to the high cost and the need for experienced experts to implement multiple optical systems with various configurations. Even for a simple optical system, substantial efforts and resources are required to instrument and implement RL algorithms effectively.
