Definition 2: Suppose that ξ satisfies Assumption 1, and the random matrices $A ( \xi _ { k } )$ and $B ( \xi _ { k } )$ in (11) satisfy Assumption 2. For given $\hat { F } \in \mathrm { ~ \bf ~ R } ^ { m \times ( n + m ) }$ , the closed-loop system (21) is said to be exponentially stable in the second moment if there exist $a \in \mathbf { R } _ { + }$ and $\lambda \in ( 0 , 1 )$ satisfying (22).

These observations lead us to the following lemma.

Lemma 1: Suppose that ξ satisfies Assumption 1, and the random matrices $A ( \xi _ { k } )$ and $B ( \xi _ { k } )$ in (11) satisfy Assumption 2. For given $F _ { 1 } \in \mathbf { R } ^ { m \times n }$ and $F _ { 2 } \in \mathbf { R } ^ { m \times m }$ , the following two conditions are equivalent.

1) The NCS Σ is exponentially stable in the second moment at sampling points.   
2) The discrete-time closed-loop system (21) is exponentially stable in the second moment, where $\hat { A } ( \xi _ { k } )$ , Bˆ and $\hat { F }$ are given by (19) and (20).

This lemma implies that the problem of designing a statefeedback controller (14) stabilizing the NCS reduces to that of designing a state-feedback controller (20) stabilizing the closed-loop system (21). Since the coefficient matrices (19) of the extended system are depending only on $\xi _ { k }$ (i.e., not on $\xi _ { k - 1 } , \xi _ { k - 2 } , . . . )$ , the results in [11] can be used for tackling the latter problem. Hence, Lemma 1, together with the results in [11], leads us to the following theorems about stability analysis and synthesis of NCSs, which constitute a part of the main results in this paper.

Theorem 1: Suppose that ξ satisfies Assumption 1, and the random matrices $A ( \xi _ { k } )$ and $B ( \xi _ { k } )$ in (11) satisfy ${ \bf A } { \bf s } -$ sumption 2. For given $F _ { 1 } ~ \in ~ \mathbf { R } ^ { m \times n }$ and $F _ { 2 } ~ \in ~ \mathbf { R } ^ { m \times m }$ , the NCS Σ is exponentially stable in the second moment at sampling points if and only if there exist P ∈ S(n+m)×(n+m)+ $P \in \mathbf { S } _ { + } ^ { ( n + m ) \times ( n + m ) }$ and $\lambda \in ( 0 , 1 )$ satisfying

$$\lambda^ {2} P - \widetilde {G} ^ {T} (P \otimes I _ {\bar {n}}) \widetilde {G} \geq 0, \tag {23}$$

where $\widetilde { G }$ is the matrix given by

$$\widetilde {G} := \left[ \bar {G} _ {1} ^ {T}, \dots , \bar {G} _ {n + m} ^ {T} \right] ^ {T} \in \mathbf {R} ^ {(n + m) \bar {n} \times (n + m)}, \tag {24}\bar {G} =: \left[ \bar {G} _ {1}, \dots , \bar {G} _ {n + m} \right]\left(\bar {G} _ {i} \in \mathbf {R} ^ {\bar {n} \times (n + m)} (i = 1, \dots , n + m)\right) \tag {25}$$
