# IV. EXPONENTIALLY STABILIZING ADAPTIVE CONTROL LYAPUNOV FUNCTIONS

In this section we introduce the concept of an exponentially stabilizing adaptive control Lyapunov function (ESaCLF) as a tool to exponentially stabilize uncertain nonlinear systems in the presence of parametric uncertainty.

Definition 4. A continuously differentiable positive definite function $V ~ : ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R } _ { \ge 0 }$ is said to be an exponentially stabilizing adaptive control Lyapunov function (ES-aCLF) for (4) if there exist positive constants $c _ { 1 } , c _ { 2 } , c _ { 3 } \in \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ such that for all $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\theta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$

$$c _ {1} \| x \| ^ {2} \leq V (x) \leq c _ {2} \| x \| ^ {2}, \tag {12a}\inf _ {u \in \mathcal {U}} \left\{L _ {f} V (x) + L _ {Y} V (x) \theta + L _ {g} V (x) u \right\} \leq - c _ {3} V (x). \tag {12b}$$

Given the above definition, let

$$
\begin{array}{l} K _ {\mathrm{clf}} (x, \theta) := \left\{u \in \mathcal {U} \mid L _ {f} V (x) \right. \tag {13} \\ \left. + L _ {Y} V (x) \theta + L _ {g} V (x) u \leq - c _ {3} V (x) \right\}, \\ \end{array}
$$

denote the point-wise set of all control values satisfying (12b). The following lemma provides a parameter update law that can be combined with any locally Lipschitz control policy satisfying $k ( x , \hat { \theta } ) \in K _ { \mathrm { c l f } } ( x , \hat { \theta } )$ to guarantee stability.

Lemma 2. Consider system (4). Let V be an ES-aCLF as in Def. 4 and define $z : = [ x ^ { \top } \quad \tilde { \theta } ^ { \top } ] ^ { }$ . Provided the estimates of the unknown parameters are updated according to

$$\dot {\hat {\theta}} = \Gamma L _ {Y} V (x) ^ {\top} + \gamma \Gamma \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {M} \mathcal {Y} _ {j} ^ {\top} (\Delta x _ {j} - \mathcal {F} _ {j} - \mathcal {Y} _ {j} \hat {\theta} - \mathcal {G} _ {j}), \tag {14}$$

where $\Gamma \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times p }$ is a positive definite gain matrix and $\gamma ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ is a user-defined adaptation gain, then any locally Lipschitz controller $u = k ( x , { \hat { \theta } } )$ satisfying $k ( x , { \hat { \theta } } ) \in$ $K _ { c l f } ( x , \hat { \theta } )$ ensures that the composite system trajectory t 7→ $z ( t )$ remains bounded in the sense that for all $t \in [ 0 , \infty )$

$$\| z (t) \| \leq \sqrt {\frac {\eta_ {2}}{\eta_ {1}}} \| z (0) \|, \tag {15}$$
