• Open-source optical control environment: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first open-sourced RL environment for optical control problems. The use of open-source licenses enables researchers to inspect the underlying code and modify the environment if necessary to test new research ideas.   
• Scalable and difficulty-adjustable scientific environment: Unlike many RL environments that are easy to solve, our OPS environment allows flexible adjustment of difficulty. The dimension of the action space can easily scale with the stage number N. Choosing a larger N with the hard mode makes controlling the environment more challenging. Effective solutions to hard scientific control problems can have a broad impact on various scientific control problems (Genty et al., 2020; Fermann & Hartl, 2013).   
Realistic noise: In the hard mode of the OPS environment, we model the noise distribution as a timedependent function. This mirrors a real-world scenario in which a noise-distribution shift occurs between the testing and training environments. Such realistic noise modeling is particularly relevant for noisesensitive systems (Ivanova et al., 2021) and increases the stochasticity of the environment.   
• Extendable state and structural information: When $\mu _ { t }$ changes very slowly, the OPS control process can be formulated as an MDP. In cases where $\mu _ { t }$ undergoes substantial variations and the noise $e _ { t }$ varies with time, the inclusion of the noise term within the state definition as $\hat { s } _ { t } = [ s _ { t } ; e _ { t } ]$ seamlessly transforms the control process into a POMDP. Furthermore, we can explore the structural information or physical constraints from the function of the OPS (see Fig. 2) and incorporate it with RL controllers.
