It is worth mentioning that the quality of performance, such as maximum overshoot, rate of convergence, and steady-state error, is usually required to be satisfied in practical systems. By considering such performance constraints, authors in [12] proposed prescribed performance control (PPC) to ensure stability while respecting those constraints. Very recently many researchers adapted the PPC approach to guarantee prescribed performance constraints while solving various problems of multi-agent systems with deterministic agents [13], [14], [15], [16]. On the other hand, there are a very few works available on utilizing PPC for stochastic control systems [17], [18]. However, as far as we know, there is no work available in the literature on the consensus of stochastic multi-agent systems while considering prescribed performance constraints.

To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to address the consensus control of stochastic multi-agent systems with prescribed performance constraints. In this paper, we consider that the evolution of each agent is given by a stochastic differential equation with state-dependent noise and is driven by a conventional first-order consensus protocol [4] with an external control input. Further, for a given communication graph topology and predefined performance constraints, the paper proposes a time-varying distributed control law that guarantees consensus in considered SMAS along with the sufficient conditions over system and prescribed performance function parameters. In particular, we proposed results considering two well-know stochastic consensus notions: (i) consensus in expectation and (ii) almost sure consensus.

The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. In Section II, we introduce stochastic multi-agent systems and prescribed performance constraints. Then, we formally define the problem considered in this paper. Section III provides the sufficient conditions under which the proposed distributed control law ensures stochastic consensus of SMAS while guaranteeing prescribed performance constraints. Section IV demonstrates the effectiveness of the results using a numerical example. Finally, Section V concludes the paper.
