However, in practical scenarios, noise cannot be ignored, and the OPS system is highly sensitive to noise. This sensitivity is primarily due to the pulse wavelength being on the order of micrometers $( 1 \mu \mathrm { m } = 1 0 ^ { - 6 } \mathrm { m } )$ . Environmental noise, including vibrations of optical devices and atmospheric temperature drift, can easily cause shifts in the time delays, resulting in changes to the output pulses. As a result, the objective function in real-world applications is much more complex than what is depicted in Fig. 2, especially for higherstage OPS systems with higher dimensions. Consequently, achieving the control objective becomes even more challenging in the presence of unknown initial states and unpredictable noise in such noise-sensitive complex systems (Genty et al., 2020). Therefore, model-based controllers face significant difficulties in implementation. In this paper, we primarily focus on model-free reinforcement learning approaches to address these challenges.

In this simulation, we incorporate two types of noise: fast noise arising from device vibrations and slow noise caused by temperature drift. The fast noise is modeled as a zero-mean Gaussian random noise with variance $\sigma ^ { 2 }$ , following the simulation noise approach outlined in (Tünnermann & Shirakawa, 2019). On the other hand, the slow noise $\mu _ { t }$ accounts for temperature drift and is represented as a piecewise linear function (Ivanova et al., 2021). To capture the combined effect of these two noise sources, we define the overall noise $e _ { t }$ as a random process. Specifically, we can express it as follows:

$$\mathbb {E} \left[ e _ {t} \right] = \mu_ {t}, \quad \mathbb {V A R} \left[ e _ {t} \right] = \sigma^ {2} \tag {2}$$
