Definition 3. Consider system (4) and a safe set ${ \mathcal { C } } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ as in (2). Consider a collection of sets $\{ \mathcal { C } _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { r }$ of the form $\mathcal { C } _ { i } : =$ $\{ x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \mid \psi _ { i - 1 } ( x ) \geq 0 \}$ , where $\psi _ { 0 } ( x ) : = h ( x )$ and $\{ \psi _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { r }$

2The function Λ is implicitly a function of time as data is added/removed from the history stack H along the system trajectory.   
3See [21, Ch. 3] for a discussion on the relation between traditional persistence of excitation conditions and the milder finite excitation conditions leveraged in concurrent learning adaptive control required to achieve $\lambda > 0 .$ . We also refer the reader to [32] for various algorithms that record data points in H so as to ensure $\lambda ( t )$ is always nondecreasing.

are defined as in (3). The sufficiently smooth function h is said to be a high order robust adaptive control barrier function (HO-RaCBF) of order r for (4) on an open set $\mathcal { D } \supset$ $\cap _ { i = 1 } ^ { r } { \mathcal { C } } _ { i }$ if h has relative degree r on some nonempty $\mathcal { R } \subseteq \mathcal { D }$ and there exists a suitable choice of $\{ \alpha _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { r }$ as in (3) such that for all $x \in { \mathcal { D } } , \theta \in \Theta$ , and $t \in \mathcal { Z }$

$$
\begin{array}{l} \sup _ {u \in \mathcal {U}} \left\{L _ {f} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) + L _ {Y} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) \theta + L _ {g} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) u \right\} \tag {9} \\ \geq - \alpha_ {r} (\psi_ {r - 1} (x)) + \| L _ {Y} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) \| \nu (t), \\ \end{array}
$$

where ν is defined as in (8).

Intuitively, the above condition adds a buffer to the original HOCBF condition from Def. 2 to account for all possible realizations of the uncertain parameters given the set Θ. This buffer may shrink over time as the uncertain parameters are identified and exponentially converges to zero in the limit as $t \to \infty$ provided there exists a time T for which $\lambda ( t ) > 0$ for all $t \geq T$ . Furthermore, Def. 3 allows us to consider the set of all control values satisfying (9) as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \hat {K} _ {\mathrm{cbf}} (x, \theta , t) := \{u \in \mathcal {U} \mid L _ {f} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) + L _ {Y} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) \theta \\ + L _ {g} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) u + \alpha_ {r} (\psi_ {r - 1} (x)) \tag {10} \\ - \left\| L _ {Y} \psi_ {r - 1} (x) \right\| \nu (t) \geq 0 \}. \\ \end{array}
$$
