Definition 12. Consider the system (1), a smoothly separable and continuously i-differentiable functional $h _ { \mathsf { k } } : C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } )$ ) R is called a Z-type control barrier-Krasovskii functional (Z-CBKF) for the set $\mathbb { C } _ { \mathsf { k } }$ in (34), if there exists $\mathbb { X } _ { \mathsf { k } } \in C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } )$ ) such that $\mathbb { C } _ { \mathsf { k } } \subseteq \mathbb { X } _ { \mathsf { k } }$ , and for any nonzero $\phi \in \mathbb { X } _ { \mathsf { k } } .$ ,

$$\sup _ {u \in \mathbb {U}} \left\{L _ {f} h _ {\mathrm{k} 1} (\phi) + D ^ {+} h _ {\mathrm{k} 2} (\phi) + L _ {g} h _ {\mathrm{k} 1} (\phi) u \right\} > - \gamma_ {\mathrm{kz}} (h _ {\mathrm{k}} (\phi)). \tag {38}$$

Remark 2. Following the Krasovskii approach, both the R-CBKF and Z-CBKF extend the CBF to the time-delay case. Different from the CBRFs in Section 3.2 where the effects of time delays are transformed into the disturbance-like items, the CBKFs are defined to involve the time-delay trajectory directly. In addition, both the R-CBKF and Z-CBKF are required to be smoothly separable, and this requirement results in differences in defining the safe set since $h _ { \mathsf { k } 1 } ( \phi ( 0 ) ) + h _ { \mathsf { k } 2 } ( \phi ) \geq 0$ in (34) whereas $h _ { \mathsf { r } } ( \phi ( 0 ) ) \geq 0$ in (16). Furthermore, similar to the R-CBRF, the R-CBKF offers more potential flexibilities in its construction comparing with the Z-RBKF. The mutual transformation between the R-CBKF and Z-CBKF is available under some conditions, which are omitted here. 

From Definitions 11-12, we define the following sets

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathbb {K} _ {\mathrm{kr}} := \left\{u \in \mathbb {U}: L _ {f} B _ {\mathrm{k} 1} (\phi) + D ^ {+} B _ {\mathrm{k} 2} (\phi) \right. \\ \left. + L _ {g} B _ {\mathrm{k} 1} (\phi) u <   \gamma_ {\mathrm{kr}} (h _ {\mathrm{k}} (\phi)) \right\}, \tag {39} \\ \end{array}
\mathbb {K} _ {\mathrm{kz}} := \left\{u \in \mathbb {U}: L _ {f} h _ {\mathrm{k} 1} (\phi) + D ^ {+} h _ {\mathrm{k} 2} (\phi) \right.\left. + L _ {g} h _ {\mathrm{k} 1} (\phi) u > - \gamma_ {\mathrm{kz}} (h _ {\mathrm{k}} (\phi)) \right\}. \tag {40}$$

In the next theorem, we show that the control inputs from the sets $\mathbb { K } _ { \mathsf { k r } }$ and $\mathbb { K } _ { \mathsf { k } z }$ lead to the forward invariant property of the set $\mathbb { C } _ { \mathsf { k } }$ , which thus implies the satisfaction of the safety objective via the CBKFs.
