We now summarize some of the results that lead up to the current work on consensus under measurement bias with unknown bounds. [34] proposes an adaptive control law in the presence of unknown constant bias for a double integrator network. This controller ensures bounded closed-loop signals in the presence of sensor bias which would not be the case in the absence of adaptation. However, convergence only to a neighborhood of consensus can be shown. [34] is based on the results in [14] which addresses the problem of accommodating unknown sensor bias in a direct MRAC setting for a single agent. In [35], the authors present a consensus algorithm for synchronization of double integrators over directed graphs in the presence of constant bias with unknown bounds. Here, the authors assume the existence of a bias error on each communication channel. Similar to [34], here too convergence ‘near’ a common equilibrium point is guaranteed. [36] shows an extension of [34], [35] to develop a distributed consensus tracking algorithm for spacecraft in formation modeled as an Euler-Lagrange network with similar bounded performance results. For a fixed communication graph, exact constant estimation of a constant bias and consensus in single integrator agents are demonstrated in [37]. An undirected, connected, and non-bipartite graph network is shown to be necessary and sufficient for estimation of the full bias vector.

In comparison with existing literature, the novel contributions of this article are as below.

• Adaptive control laws for exact bias estimation and consensus are developed over [34], [36], [35]. One sensor attached to each node is considered and all relative measurements from a node are assumed to be affected by the same bias in contrast to [35].   
• A time-varying communication network topology is considered over [37], [34], [35], [36]. The analysis is based on jointly connected and jointly non-bipartite graphs.   
• A non-bipartite property of the communication graph for a finite initial-time only is shown to be necessary in contrast to [37], where a constant non-bipartite graph is assumed for all time.   
• A collective initial excitation based adaptive controller is employed for the first time in bias estimation problems over networks.

This paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces mathematical notation, necessary lemmas and in brief, graph theory. In section III, we formulate the consensus problem over a network of double integrator systems. We develop an adaptive control law for achieving consensus and bias estimation in section IV. A discussion on the choice of control gains and the collective initial excitation condition on the regressor matrix are presented in section V. Section VI presents numerical simulations validating our algorithm. Conclusions are presented in section VII.
