Since $\textit { i } \in \textit { c } _ { j }$ and $j \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , v \}$ were chosen arbitrarily, stochastic stability of each plant $i \in \bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j }$ under ?? is immediate. In view of Lemma 1 i), this completes our proof of Theorem 1. 

Remark 3. Recall that a Markovian jump linear system is a switched system [4, Section 1.1.2] with linear subsystems; its switching logic is stochastic and can be described by a Markov chain. Switched systems with both deterministic and stochastic switching logics have been employed to design scheduling algorithms for NCSs with communication limitations and uncertainties earlier in the literature, see e.g., [2, Remark 11] for a detailed discussion. The primary difference of our work with the existing literature is that our scheduling algorithm is probabilistic while most of the existing design of scheduling logics by employing switched systems modelling of plants relies on purely deterministic techniques. In case of the latter, stochastic behaviour of the switching logics arises from probabilistic assumptions on the communication uncertainties typically leading to non-homogeneous Markov chains, see e.g., [3] where a probabilistic data loss model is considered. In the current work stochastic behaviour of the switching logics arises from probabilistic scheduling logic and the switching logics are time homogeneous Markov chains.

Remark 4. Qualitative and quantitative properties of conti-nuous-time linear plants communicating with their controllers under a pre-specified stochastic scheduling logic have been studied in [5]. The problem considered in this paper differs from the said setting due to the following two reasons: (a) we focus on designing stabilizing probabilistic scheduling logics, and (b) our plant dynamics evolve in discrete-time.

Remark 5. Notice that our design of scheduling logics is neither static nor dynamic (a description of these terms are given in Section 1). Indeed, we neither repeat a finite length allocation scheme nor take properties of the plants or other components in the NCS into consideration at every time instant. This is not surprising as the proposed design technique is solely probabilistic.
