$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {\check {\xi}} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} I \otimes A & \mathcal {L} \otimes B _ {2} \breve {F} \\ I \otimes \breve {G} C _ {2} & I \otimes (A - \breve {G} C _ {2}) + \mathcal {L} \otimes B _ {2} \breve {F} \end{array} \right] \breve {\xi} + \left[ \begin{array}{c} I \otimes B _ {0} \\ I \otimes \breve {G} D _ {0} \end{array} \right] w _ {0}, \\ z = \mathcal {M} \otimes \left[ \begin{array}{l l} C _ {1} & 0 \end{array} \right] \check {\xi}. \tag {34} \\ \end{array}
$$

It is easy to verify that the $H _ { 2 }$ consensus problem of (34) can be reduced to the same condition as in Theorem 1. Then, Theorem 2 can also be used to design the protocol (33).

2) Step Two: In the second step, we define the residual signals $\tilde { f } _ { i }$ as follows:

$$\tilde {f} _ {i} \triangleq C _ {2} \check {v} _ {i} - y _ {i}, i = 1, \dots , N, \tag {35}$$

which is actually the local estimated output error. Therefore, $\tilde { f _ { i } }$ quantifies the difference between the actual plant and the ideal plant, and we can see that $\tilde { f _ { i } } \ = \ 0 .$ , if there exist no disturbances or uncertainties.

Since estimate $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { N } a _ { i j } ( x _ { i } - x _ { j } ) } \end{array}$ is the consensus we can see that $\breve { v } _ { i }$ $x _ { i }$ $\textstyle \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { N } a _ { i j } \bigl ( \tilde { f } _ { i } - \tilde { f } _ { j } \bigr )$ denotes the estimated output error of the consensus error. Therefore, inon the control i, instead of $u _ { \infty i }$ for the inner loop based the previous subsection. $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { N } a _ { i j } ( \tilde { f } _ { i } - \tilde { f } _ { j } ) } \end{array}$ $\bar { \tilde { f } _ { i } }$ Specifically, we consider a distributed protocol of the form

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {n} _ {i} = \breve {A} _ {c} n _ {i} + \breve {B} _ {c} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (\tilde {f} _ {i} - \tilde {f} _ {j}), \\ u _ {\infty i} = \check {C} _ {c} n _ {i} + \check {D} _ {c} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (\tilde {f} _ {i} - \tilde {f} _ {j}), \tag {36} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $n _ { i } \in \mathbf { R } ^ { n }$ is the state of the protocol, and $\breve { A } _ { c } , \breve { B } _ { c } , \breve { C } _ { c } , \breve { D } _ { c }$ are protocol matrices to be designed. In this case, $Q ( s ) = \left[ \frac { \breve { A } _ { c } \left| \breve { B } _ { c } \right. } { \breve { C } _ { c } \left| \breve { D } _ { c } \right. } \right]$ in Fig. 2.
