Proof. Suppose first that $b \not \in \mathrm { C o n v } ( B ( { \pmb x } , t ) )$ . Recall that $\begin{array} { r } { H ( t , \pmb { x } , p ) \leq \mathrm { s u p } _ { b \in \mathrm { C o n v } ( B ( \pmb { x } , t ) ) } p \cdot b + C . } \end{array}$ . Therefore, we have

$$H ^ {*} (t, \pmb {x}, b) \geq \sup _ {p} \left\{p \cdot b - \sup _ {b ^ {\prime} \in \mathrm{Conv} (B (\pmb {x}, t))} p \cdot b ^ {\prime} \right\} - C.$$

Consider a hyperplane passing through b such that $B ( { \pmb x } , t )$ lies strictly above (or below) of the plane. Denoting the unit normal vector pointing toward $B ( { \pmb x } , t )$ by e, we have that

$$e \cdot (b - b ^ {\prime}) \geq \delta > 0$$

for all $b ^ { \prime } \in B ( { \pmb x } , t )$ and some $\delta > 0$ . Taking $p = z e$ and letting z tend to $\infty$ , we obtain that $H ^ { * } ( t , x , b ) = + \infty$ when $b \not \in \mathrm { C o n v } ( B ( { \pmb x } , t ) )$ .

The second part is a straightforward result following from the definition of theform. However, we present a proof for the sake of completeness. We first write $\begin{array} { r } { b = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \gamma _ { i } b _ { i } \in \mathbb { ~ } } \end{array}$ $\mathrm { C o n v } ( B ( { \pmb x } , t ) )$ with $b _ { i } \in B ( { \pmb x } , t )$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \gamma _ { i } = 1 } \end{array}$ , where $\gamma _ { i } \mathrm { ^ s }$ are nonnegative. Then, we deduce that

$$
\begin{array}{l} H ^ {*} (t, \boldsymbol {x}, b) = \sup _ {p} \left\{p \cdot b - H (t, \boldsymbol {x}, p) \right\} \\ \leq \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \gamma_ {i} \sup _ {p} \left\{p \cdot b _ {i} - H (t, \boldsymbol {x}, p) \right\}. \tag {2.4} \\ \end{array}
$$

Since $\begin{array} { r } { H ( t , \pmb { x } , p ) = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { b ^ { \prime } \in B ( \pmb { x } , t ) } \{ p \cdot b ^ { \prime } - \tilde { L } ( s , \pmb { x } , b ^ { \prime } ) \} } \end{array}$ , it follows that

$$H (t, \boldsymbol {x}, p) \geq p \cdot b ^ {\prime} - \tilde {L} (t, \boldsymbol {x}, b ^ {\prime})$$

for any $b ^ { \prime } \in B ( { \pmb x } , t )$ . Choosing $b ^ { \prime } = b _ { i }$ for each i and using (2.4), we conclude that $H ^ { * } ( t , { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { x } } } , b ) \leq$ $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \gamma _ { i } \tilde { L } ( t , \pmb { x } , b _ { i } ) } \end{array}$ , where the right-hand side is finite. □

This proposition implies that the condition $b \in \operatorname { C o n v } ( B ( \pmb { x } , t ) )$ is necessary and sufficient for $H ^ { * }$ to be well-defined, or finite. Thus, if $H ^ { * } ( t , { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { \mathit { x } } } } , b )$ is used as the stage-wise cost function, this condition forces the negative vector field to stay inside of $B ( x ( t ) , t )$ so that ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = f ( t , x ( t ) , u ( t ) )$ . This motivates us to use the Lagrangian formula using $H ^ { * }$ as the stage-wise cost function.
