where $\mathbb { C } _ { 1 } = \mathbb { C } - \mathbf { B } ( \varepsilon )$ and $\varepsilon > 0$ is arbitrarily small. In this case, the safety objective can be guaranteed under some possible chattering phenomena. Next, we show how to construct this sliding surface functional (44) such that $( 5 1 ) ‐ ( 5 2 )$ are satisfied under the controller (50). For this purpose, two types of sliding surface functionals are constructed, and sufficient conditions are established in the following propositions.

Proposition 9. Consider the system (1) with the safe set $\mathbb { C } \subset$ Rn and the initial state $\xi \in C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ]$ , Int(C)). If

(i) the control Lyapunov functional is $\mathcal { V } ( \phi )$ ,   
(ii) the Z-type control barrier functional is $\mathcal { B } ( \phi )$ ,   
(iii) the sliding surface functional is

$$\mathbf {U} (\phi) := \mathbf {a} \mathcal {V} (\phi) - \mathbf {b} \mathcal {B} (\phi) + \mathbf {c}, \tag {54}$$

with $\mathbf { a } , \mathbf { b } , \mathbf { c } > 0$ satisfying

$$0 \leq \| \mathbf {U} (\xi) \| < \mathbf {c}, \tag {55}$$

then the controller (50) guarantees simultaneously the stabilization and safety objectives of the system (1).

Proof. From Theorem 8, the sliding surface converges to the origin under the controller (50), and thus the stabilization objective is guaranteed. In the following, we just show the satisfaction of the safety objective.

Since $D ^ { + } \mathbf { W } ( \phi ) < 0$ , we have $| \mathbf { U } ( x _ { t } ( \theta ) ) | \le | \mathbf { U } ( x _ { 0 } ( \theta ) ) |$ for all $t > 0$ and $\theta \in [ - \Delta , 0 ]$ . In the following, we consider two cases. For the case $\mathbf { U } ( x _ { t } ( \theta ) ) > 0$ ,

$$0 < \mathbf {a} \mathcal {V} (x _ {t} (\theta)) - \mathbf {b} \mathcal {B} (x _ {t} (\theta)) + \mathbf {c} \leq | \mathbf {U} (x _ {0} (\theta)) |.$$

From (55), if $\mathbf { U } ( x _ { 0 } ( \theta ) ) \geq 0$ for all $\theta \in [ - \Delta , 0 ]$ , then ${ \mathbf a } \mathcal { V } ( x _ { 0 } ( \theta ) ) -$ b ( $x _ { 0 } ( \theta ) ) < 0 ,$ and

$$\mathbf {b} \mathcal {B} (x _ {t} (\theta)) \geq \mathbf {a} \mathcal {V} (x _ {t} (\theta)) - (\mathbf {a} \mathcal {V} (x _ {0} (\theta)) - \mathbf {b} \mathcal {B} (x _ {0} (\theta))). \tag {56}$$
