# 1. INTRODUCTION

Modeling real world systems usually involves a certain level of abstraction. Models derived from fundamental physics laws, for example, in the remainder referred to as physics-based models, are one of the most prevalent type of model in engineering, e.g., in form of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). These abstract representations of an underlying real system only capture a limited amount of its dynamics, omitting statistical aspects or complex nonlinear effects, either compromising model quality due to modeling effort or due to a system’s complexity even with high modeling effort.

Not all aspects in the process of modeling a technical system can be theoretically derived. Determining the model parameters, for example, usually involves experimental identification, which is why measurement data is often collected. To further reduce the modeling effort and mitigate the effects of insufficient system understanding, purely data-driven approaches are increasingly being adopted in modern engineering disciplines, e.g., see Brunton et al. (2016); Junker et al. (2021). However, while the resulting models might be suitable for some applications, they are completely unfit for settings where actions need to be explainable and verifiably valid, see Garcez and Lamb (2020), especially important in safety-critical domains like autonomous transport or healthcare. Additional limitations include poor extrapolative properties as well as lacking compatibility with the most common engineering tools (e.g., stability analysis). To address these deficiencies, we introduce a new class of hybrid models.

Since their introduction by Karpatne et al. (2017), Physics-Guided Neural Networks (PGNNs), a novel type of hybrid models, have already been successfully implemented in several domains of application, e.g., see Karpatne et al. (2017); Willard et al. (2021). As a result, by embedding physics-based models and restrictions as in Dener et al. (2020), both synergetic effects as well as physically sound models were obtained. Based on prior works, c.f. Antonelo et al. (2021); G¨otte and Timmermann (2022), the potential of PGNNs for the identification of non-autonomous dynamical systems is revisited from a control engineering point of view using a refined approach.
