# V. CHOOSING GAINS AND C-IE CONDITION ON REGRESSORS

A central condition for exponential convergence of the bias estimation error to zero is Assumption 3. We have, $Y _ { F _ { i } } ( t ) =$ e−βt $\begin{array} { r } { e ^ { - \beta t } \int _ { 0 } ^ { t } e ^ { \beta s } Y _ { i } ( \dot { q } _ { i } ( \tau ) , \ddot { q } _ { i } ( \tau ) , \tau ) \mathrm { d } \tau } \end{array}$ , where from $( 7 ) , Y _ { i } ( { \dot { q } } _ { i } , { \ddot { q } } _ { i } , t )$ $= \left| \ddot { q } _ { i } , \ k ( t ) \dot { q } _ { i } , \ \frac { 1 } { 2 } k ( t ) [ Q _ { i 1 } ( t ) I _ { m } , Q _ { i 2 } ( t ) I _ { m } , . . . , Q _ { i n } ( t ) I _ { m } ] \right|$ . For Assumption 3 to be satisfied, it is required that the integral of $\textstyle \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } { \bar { Y } } _ { F _ { i } } ^ { \top } Y _ { F _ { i } }$ over the initial finite time window spans the mn + 2 dimensional space. We will now prove that, if the set of regressors $Y _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { : } } \mathrm { s }$ are C-IE then the set of filtered regressors, ${ \cal Y } _ { F _ { i } } \ ' _ { \mathrm { s } , }$ are also C-IE which further implies that $Y _ { I F _ { i } } \mathrm { ^ { * } s }$ are $\mathrm { C } \mathrm { - }$ IE.

Proposition V.1. The sufficient condition for the set of $Y _ { F _ { i } } \ ' _ { s }$ $( i \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , n \} )$ to be C-IE is that the set of $Y _ { i }$ ’s are C-IE.

Proof. We proceed along the line of proof given in [42, Proposition 4.1]. Consider an arbitrary unit vector $v \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( m n + 2 ) }$ and define the following variables:-

$$K _ {i} \triangleq Y _ {i} vK _ {F _ {i}} \triangleq Y _ {F _ {i}} v$$

Let us assume that the set of regressors $Y _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { : } } \mathrm { s }$ are $\mathrm { C } { \cdot } \mathrm { I E }$ . The above proposition can now be proved by contradiction. Suppose that $Y _ { F _ { i } } \mathrm { ^ { * } s }$ are not C-IE. Then, $\exists ~ v \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( m n + 2 ) }$ such that

$$\int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {0} + T} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} (K _ {F _ {i}} ^ {\top} (\tau) K _ {F _ {i}} (\tau)) d \tau = 0$$

which implies that, $K _ { F _ { i } } ( t ) ~ = ~ 0 , ~ \forall i , ~ \forall t ~ \in ~ [ t _ { 0 } , t _ { 0 } + T ]$ . Therefore, $\dot { K } _ { F _ { i } } ( t ) = 0 \ \forall i$ and $t \in ( t _ { 0 } , t _ { 0 } + T )$ . By definition, we have,

$$\dot {K} _ {F _ {i}} = - \beta K _ {F _ {i}} + K _ {i}$$

which indicates that $K _ { i } ( t )$ is zero for all $i , \forall t \in ( t _ { 0 } , t _ { 0 } + T )$ . This contradicts the fact that $Y _ { i } \mathrm { ' s }$ are C-IE. Hence, the set of $Y _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { : } } \mathrm { s }$ being C-IE implies that the set of $Y _ { F _ { i } } \mathrm { ^ { * } s }$ are C-IE.
