(1) The definition of equitable partition of matrix-weighted signed multi-agent system is first given, and the upper bound of controllable subspace and a necessary graphic condition of controllability are obtained by combining the restriction conditions of the coefficient matrix and matrix weight for the case of fixed and switching topologies, respectively. In particular, the equivalence of the controllability results based on the concept of equitable partition for first-order integrator systems and general linear systems under appropriate input matrix selection(it called complete control input) conditions is discussed.

(2) For the case of heterogeneous systems, the upper bound of controllable subspace and the necessary condition of controllability are obtained when the dynamics of individuals in the same cell are the same. To our knowledge, this is the first time to use the concept of equitable partition (EP) to deal with the controllability of heterogeneous systems whether for scalar or matrix weighted networks. The meaning of ’equitable’ is extended by combining the characteristics of graph theory with the distribution law of each individual dynamics.

(3) Sufficient conditions for controllable and uncontrollable union graphs are obtained by taking advantage of the concept of switched systems and equitable partitions, respectively. As far as we know, this is the first time that the sufficient condition of uncontrollable union graph is given by using the concept of EP.

(4) A necessary condition of observability is obtained in terms of the dual system and the constraints of the coefficient matrix, and the relationship between the observability and the controllability of the matrix-weighted signed multi-agent systems is discussed. The observability results in this paper are more applicable compared with the existing graph conditions of observability obtained under the conditions of the first-order integrator, undirected and unweighted graph.

The rest of this work is organized as follows. The notations and some preliminaries used in this paper are provided in Section 2. The model of matrix-weighted signed networks under general linear dynamics is established in Section 3. Section 4, 5, and 6 present the main results of controllability and observability of matrix weighted signed networks in different cases, respectively. Some numerical examples are shown in Section 7, and the conclusions are summarized in Section 8.
