Compared to the trade-off approach, e.g., the mixed $H _ { 2 } / H _ { \infty }$ control design, the proposed complementary design approach has at least two main advantages. Firstly, since the extra control provides an additional degree of freedom for design, the complementary approach has two separate controls to deal with the $H _ { 2 }$ performance and the robustness of consensus, respectively. Thereby, this approach does not need to make much trade-off, and can be expected to be much less conservative than the trade-off approach where one control tackles two conflicting performances. Secondly, the control action of the second step is proportional to the residual signal which quantifies the modeling mismatch level, thereby having some online “adaptivity” with respect to modeling errors. This complementary approach will yield the same achievable $H _ { 2 }$ performance when modeling mismatches do not exist. By contrast, the trade-off approach always considers the a priori worst case and still yield the same conservative performance even when disturbances or uncertainties do not exist.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Some mathematical preliminaries including graph theory and results on $H _ { 2 }$ and $H _ { \infty }$ performances are summarized in Section II. The $H _ { 2 }$ and $H _ { \infty }$ consensus problem is formulated in Section III. A twostep complementary design approach is proposed for the $H _ { 2 }$ and $H _ { \infty }$ consensus problem in Section IV. A simulation example that illustrates the proposed theoretical results are presented in Section V. Finally, conclusions are given in Section VI.
