Remark 1. Condition (2) involves properties of the matrices $A _ { i } , \ B _ { i }$ and $K _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N ,$ , the disjoint sets $c _ { j } , \ j \ \in \ \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , v \}$ and the probabilities $p _ { c _ { j } } , ~ j ~ \in ~ \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , v \}$ }. It relies on the existence of symmetric and positive definite matrices, $P _ { k } , \stackrel { \cdot } { k } = i _ { s } , i _ { u } , i = 1 , 2 , . . . , N$ that together with the matrices $A _ { i } , B _ { i } , K _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N$ and the probabilities $p _ { c _ { i } } , j = 1 , 2 , . . . ,$ , ?? corresponding to the subset $c _ { j } , j \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , v \}$ that plant ?? appears in, satisfy a set of matrix inequalities. Notice that with the quantities $A _ { i } , B _ { i } , K _ { i } , c _ { j } , p _ { c _ { i } } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , \iota$ known, the set of inequalities in (2) can be solved by employing standard Linear Matrix Inequalities solvers.

Remark 2. Fix a scheduling logic, ??, obtained from Algorithm 1. Theorem 1 is necessary and sufficient in the following sense: if condition (2) holds, then ?? is stabilizing, and $i f \gamma$ is stabilizing, then condition (2) holds.

Towards proving Theorem 1, we will utilize the following auxiliary result:

Lemma 1. Suppose that Assumption 3 holds. Then the following are true:

$i ) \bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j } = \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , N \} ,$ , and

ii) for each $i \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , N \}$ , there exists exactly one $j \in \{ 1 , 2 , \dots , v \}$ such that $i \in c _ { j } .$

Proof. i) Assume, by contradiction, that $\bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j } \neq \{ 1 , 2 , . . . , N \}$ . By construction of ${ c _ { j } } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , v ,$ ??=1 it must then be true that $\bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { c } c _ { j } \subset \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , N \}$ . We have $\left. c _ { j } \right. = M$ for each $j = 1 , 2 , \dots , v .$ . Thus, ??=1 $\left| \bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j } \right| = v M = ( N / M ) M .$ . Since $N ^ { \mathrm { q } } \vert \mathrm { o } M = 0 .$ , we have $\left| \bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j } \right| = N .$ . Then it must hold that there exist $\mathcal { \dot { l } } \in \left\{ 1 , 2 , \dots , N \right\}$ and $j _ { 1 } , j _ { 2 } , \ldots , j _ { q } \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , v \}$ such that $\ell \in c _ { j _ { m } }$ for each $m = 1 , 2 , \ldots , q$ . But this contradicts the fact that $c _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , v$ are disjoint sets. Consequently, it must be true that $\bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j } = \{ 1 , 2 , \dotsc , N \}$ .

ii) Since $v = N / M$ and the sets $c _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , v ,$ , are disjoint, the assertion follows at once.
