which, in light of Finsler’s Lemma [39], [2], is equivalent to that there exist $\bar { \bar { P } } > 0$ and $\tau > 0$ such that (13) holds. Therefore, (18) implies (13). The converse was shown in the proof.

2) Step Two: In the second step, we design an additional regulating control input $u _ { \infty i }$ to deal with the external disturbances $w _ { i }$ and to guarantee the $H _ { \infty }$ robustness while not significantly compromising the H2 performance. Since the noise w0i has been taken care of and filtered out in the first step, we only consider the effect of $w _ { i }$ in the second step.

Under the $H _ { 2 }$ consensus protocol (4) in the first step, the augmented agent dynamics are described by

$$\dot {x} _ {i} = A x _ {i} + B _ {2} u _ {i} + B _ {1} w _ {i},\dot {v} _ {i} = \left(A - G C _ {2}\right) v _ {i} + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} \left(B _ {2} F \left(v _ {i} - v _ {j}\right) \right. \tag {19}\left. + G C _ {2} \left(x _ {i} - x _ {j}\right) + G D _ {1} \left(w _ {i} - w _ {j}\right)\right),u _ {i} = u _ {2 i} + u _ {\infty i},u _ {2 i} = F v _ {i}, \quad i = 1, \dots , N,$$

where the gain matrices F and G are designed in the first step.

The residual signal $\boldsymbol { f } = [ f _ { 1 } ^ { T } , \cdot \cdot \cdot , f _ { N } ^ { T } ] ^ { \bar { T } }$ in Fig. 1 is used in the second step to activate the inner loop. It builds on the protocol (4) and is given by

$$f _ {i} \triangleq C _ {2} v _ {i} - \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (y _ {i} - y _ {j}) \tag {20}= C _ {2} e _ {i} - D _ {1} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (w _ {i} - w _ {j}), i = 1, \dots , N,$$

where $e _ { i }$ is defined as in (5).

In this step, we consider a distributed protocol of the form

$$\dot {n} _ {i} = A _ {c} n _ {i} + B _ {c} f _ {i},u _ {\infty i} = C _ {c} n _ {i} + D _ {c} f _ {i}, \tag {21}$$

where $n _ { i } \in \mathbf { R } ^ { n }$ is the state of the protocol, and $A _ { c } , B _ { c } , C _ { c } , D _ { c }$ are protocol matrices to be designed. In this case, $Q ( s ) = \left\lceil \frac { A _ { c } } { C _ { c } } \right\rceil \frac { B _ { c } } { D _ { c } }$ Bc in Fig. 1. It should be mentioned that here we assume that u∞i is a general dynamic controller with $f _ { i }$ as its input. Special forms such as observer-based ones in [20], [21] can be also considered.

Note that the error $e _ { i }$ in the current case satisfies

$$\dot {e} _ {i} = (A - G C _ {2}) e _ {i} + (G D _ {1} - B _ {1}) \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (w _ {i} - w _ {j}). \tag {22}$$
