# 3.2 Implementation of cooperative coverage algorithm

Section 2.1 presents a method of workspace partition based on Voronoi diagram, but there is a problem left, that is, even if Voronoi partition can ensure the minimum distance from the point in the region to the agent, it can not ensure the equal workload of each workspace. In extreme cases, the time required for agents to cover their respective areas varies greatly. This may result in the fact that some agents complete their workload in advance and are in the idle condition, which causes the wasting of resources and decrease of efficiency. In this section, we propose a method of iterative partition, which can make full use of agent resources while ensuring the division of subregions, and finally complete the overall coverage mission in finite time.

Let t denote the time from the start of the coverage to the current time, and $t ^ { \prime }$ represents the time from the start of iteration to the current time. Suppose that in the k-th iteration, agent i first completes the coverage task of its subregion $D _ { i } ^ { k }$ , it takes total time $T ^ { k }$ . We need to determine the segmentation result of iteration k + 1. Before partition, we need to update the workload $m _ { 0 } ^ { k + 1 } ( { \mathbf { x } } )$ . The workload at the end of last iteration is used as the initial value of the

next iteration.

$$m _ {0} ^ {k + 1} (\mathbf {x}) = m ^ {k} (\mathbf {x}, T ^ {k}), \tag {14}$$

where $m ^ { k } ( \mathbf { x } , T ^ { k } )$ is the value of function $m ^ { k } ( { \bf x } , t ^ { \prime } )$ at time $T ^ { k }$ . Similar to (4), $m ^ { k } ( { \bf x } , t ^ { \prime } )$ is defined as

$$m ^ {k} (\mathbf {x}, t ^ {\prime}) = \max \left(0, m _ {0} ^ {k} (\mathbf {x}) - \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \int_ {0} ^ {t ^ {\prime}} p _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, s _ {i} ^ {k} (\tau)) d \tau\right). \tag {15}$$

Then agent i moves to the subregion of agent $j$ that it can communicate with. Besides, the remaining workload in $D _ { j } ^ { k }$ is the largest compared with that of other neighbors of agent i. Thus, the number $j$ can be determined by

$$j = \arg \underbrace {\max _ {j}} w _ {i j} \int_ {D _ {j} ^ {k}} m _ {0} ^ {k + 1} (\mathbf {x}) d \mathbf {x}. \tag {16}$$

Set the initial position of agent i in the $k + 1$ iteration as the point with the largest workload in area $D _ { j } ^ { k }$ , and assume that the moving time is ignored, because the moving speed of agent without coverage can be much greater than $V _ { i \cdot }$ , that is, the time consumption between iterations is ignored
