Clearly, $\mathtt { g a p } _ { \mathcal { H } } ( \mathcal { V } , \mathcal { W } ) = \operatorname* { m a x } \{ \bar { \mathtt { g a p } } _ { \mathcal { H } } ( \mathcal { V } , \mathcal { W } ) , \bar { \mathtt { g a p } } _ { \mathcal { H } } ( \mathcal { W } , \mathcal { V } ) \}$ Note that no explicit mention to any particular choice of $\| \cdot \|$ is actually needed when the ambient Hilbert space H is $\mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ , since all the gap functions are equivalent [28, p.91]. Throughout the paper, we denote by gap the gap metric corresponding the Euclidean 2-norm $\| \cdot \| _ { 2 }$ to streamline the notation.

We are now ready to introduce a notion of distance between restricted behaviors.

Definition 8. Let $\boldsymbol { B } \in \mathcal { L } ^ { q , c }$ and $\tilde { B } \in \mathcal { L } ^ { q , c }$ . For $L \in \mathbb { Z } _ { + }$ , the L-gap between B and B˜ is defined as

$$\operatorname{gap} _ {L} (\mathcal {B}, \tilde {\mathcal {B}}) = \operatorname{gap} (\mathcal {B} | _ {L}, \tilde {\mathcal {B}} | _ {L}). \tag {4}$$

The directed $L \mathrm { - } g a p$ between B and $\tilde { B }$ is defined as $\mathrm { g } \mathrm { \vec { a } p } _ { L } ( \vec { B } , \tilde { B } ) = \mathrm { g } \mathrm { \vec { a } p } ( \vec { B } | _ { L } , \tilde { B } | _ { L } )$ .

Remark 1. The $\scriptstyle L - \mathrm { g a p }$ can also be defined for behaviors with different lags. However, for clarity of exposition we define it here for behaviors of the same complexity c. △

$\boldsymbol { \mathrm { B y } }$ Proposition 1 and since gap is a metric on $\mathrm { G r } ( k , N )$ for $k , N \in \mathbb { N } \ [ 2 8 , \mathrm { p } { . } 9 3 ]$ , we have the following result.

Corollary 1. The set of all restricted behaviors $\boldsymbol { B } | _ { L } \in \mathcal { L } ^ { q , c }$ , with $L > l ,$ , equipped with ${ \tt g a p } _ { L }$ is a metric space.

Remark 2 (Geometry). The gap metric has a well-known geometric interpretation in terms of the sine of the largest principal angle between two subspaces. In particular, as an immediate consequence of [28, Theorem 4.5], for $L > l ,$ , the L-gap between $\boldsymbol { B } \in \mathcal { L } ^ { q , c }$ and $\tilde { B } \in \mathcal { L } ^ { q , c }$ is $\begin{array} { r } { \mathtt { g a p } _ { L } ( \vec { B } , \tilde { B } ) = \sin \theta _ { \mathrm { m a x } } , } \end{array}$ where $\theta _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ is the largest principal angle between the subspaces $\boldsymbol { B } | _ { L }$ and $\tilde { B } | _ { L }$ (see Appendix A for more detail on principal angles). △
