# II. PROBLEM SETUP

We consider a linear, discrete-time system

$$\boldsymbol {x} _ {t + 1} = \boldsymbol {A} \boldsymbol {x} _ {t} + \boldsymbol {B} \boldsymbol {u} _ {t} + \boldsymbol {G} \boldsymbol {w} _ {t} = \boldsymbol {f} (\boldsymbol {x} _ {t}, \boldsymbol {u} _ {t}, \boldsymbol {w} _ {t}) \tag {1}$$

with states $\pmb { x } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \pmb { x } } }$ , inputs $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ , and uncertainties $\pmb { w } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { w } }$ at time step t, as well as the known matrices A, B, and G with appropriate dimensions. System (1) is subject to input constraints $\mathbf { } u _ { t } \in \mathcal { U }$ and state constraints $\mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } _ { t } \in \mathcal { X }$ .

Assumption 1 (Uncertainty): The uncertainty ${ \pmb w } _ { t }$ is independent and identically distributed and bounded by $\pmb { w } _ { t } \in \mathcal { W }$ .

The general task is to drive the state of system (1) to the origin while keeping inputs low. In MPC, this is achieved by repeatedly solving an OCP $\mathbb { P } ( \pmb { x } _ { t } )$ , i.e.,

$$\min _ {\boldsymbol {U} _ {t}} J (\boldsymbol {x} _ {t}, \boldsymbol {U} _ {t}) \tag {2a}\text { s.t. } \boldsymbol {x} _ {t + k + 1 | t} = \boldsymbol {f} (\boldsymbol {x} _ {t + k | t}, \boldsymbol {u} _ {t + k | t}, \boldsymbol {w} _ {t + k | t}) \tag {2b}\boldsymbol {u} _ {t + k \mid t} \in \mathcal {U}, \quad k \in \mathbb {I} _ {0, N - 1} \tag {2c}\boldsymbol {x} _ {t + k \mid t} \in \mathcal {X}, \quad k \in \mathbb {I} _ {1, N} \tag {2d}$$

with the finite input sequence $U _ { t } = ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t \mid t } , . . . , \mathbf { \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t + N - 1 \mid t } )$ and the objective function

$$J (\boldsymbol {x} _ {t}, \boldsymbol {U} _ {t}) = \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N - 1} l \left(\boldsymbol {x} _ {t + k | t}, \boldsymbol {u} _ {t + k | t}\right) + V _ {\mathrm{f}} (\boldsymbol {x} _ {t + N | t}) \tag {3}$$

with prediction horizon N , stage cost l, and the terminal cost function Vf. At each time step t, the first element $\mathbf { } \mathbf { } u _ { t } = \mathbf { } u _ { t { \mid } t }$ is applied to the system. This may be expressed as a control law $\pmb { u } _ { t } = \pmb { u } ( \pmb { x } _ { t } )$ .

Considering uncertainty in the state constraint (2d) may lead to overly conservative results. This conservatism is reduced by chance constraints of the form

$$\operatorname * {P r} \left(\boldsymbol {x} _ {t + k \mid t} \in \mathcal {X}\right) \geq \beta \tag {4}$$

with risk parameter $\beta .$ Replacing robust constraints in RMPC by chance constraints yields an SMPC OCP. However, while conservatism is reduced, a small probability of constraint violation is allowed, i.e., the lower the risk parameter $\beta ,$ the higher the probability of constraint violations.
