# 3.1 Heat field-induced control

Instead of generating global temperature field [13], the coverage of each Voronoi cell $D _ { i }$ is taken into account by solving heat transfer equation locally. While adopting the distributed method, it also retains the global advantage of temperature field on the coverage area. The coverage for a certain time can be regarded as a static temperature field with adiabatic boundary. For region $D _ { i } ,$ its temperature field $T _ { i }$ at time t satisfies

$$\alpha \Delta T _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, t) + h _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, t) = \beta T _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, t), \tag {8}$$

with the Neumann boundary condition

$$\frac {\partial T _ {i} (\mathbf {x} , t)}{\partial \mathbf {n}} = 0, \tag {9}$$

where $\alpha > 0 , \beta > 0 , \Delta$ is a Laplace operator, n is the outward normal vector. Note that the above equation is independent of time, and the boundary of subregions results from Voronoi partition. In the heat equation (8), $\alpha \Delta T _ { i }$ represents the net heat flow. Thermal diffusivity α represents the ability of the temperature of all parts of the object, and it tends to be the same when the object is heated or cooled. The larger the value, the smaller the temperature difference in all parts of the object. To deal with the coverage problem, we convert the workload level into internal heat source $h _ { i } ( \mathbf { x } , t )$

$$h _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, t) = \frac {m (\mathbf {x} , t)}{\bar {m} _ {i}}, \quad x \in D _ {i}, \tag {10}$$

where $\bar { m } _ { i }$ represents the maximum workload in the initial case for region $D _ { i }$ .

$$\bar {m} _ {i} = \max (m _ {0} (\mathbf {x})). \tag {11}$$

When the agent does not cover a point x in the area, the energy of heat source releases heat flow to the low-temperature area. When the agent completes the coverage of point x, it will no longer provide energy as a heat source. Similar to [13], the term $\beta T _ { i }$ governs cooling over the whole region. It can be considered as the difference between the current temperature and 0 degree. The larger the difference is, the more remarkable the cooling effect is. Parameter $\beta$ is the global cooling coefficient, which controls the global cooling effect.
