Theorem 2. Consider an NCS described in §2. Suppose that Assumption 3 holds. Let the matrices $A _ { i } , B _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N ,$ , the sets $c _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots ,$ ?? and the probabilities $p _ { c _ { i } } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , v ,$ , be given. Suppose that the state-feedback controllers, $K _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N$ are computed as (9). Then condition (2) holds.

Proof. Fix $j \in \{ 1 , 2 , \dots , v \}$ and $i \in c _ { j }$ . Suppose that there exists a solution $P _ { i _ { s } } , P _ { i _ { u } }$ to the feasibility problem (7). By Schur complement, the inequality

$$A _ {i _ {u}} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} ^ {i} A _ {i _ {u}} - P _ {i _ {u}} \prec 0 \tag {10}$$

is equivalent to $\left( \begin{array} { c c } { - \mathcal { P } ^ { i } } & { \mathcal { P } ^ { i } A _ { i _ { u } } } \\ { \star } & { - P _ { i _ { u } } } \end{array} \right) < 0$ − P?? F P?? ?????? . We need to design $K _ { i }$ such that the following inequality holds:

$$
\left( \begin{array}{c c} - \mathcal {P} ^ {i} & \mathcal {P} ^ {i} A _ {i _ {s}} \\ \star & - P _ {i _ {s}} \end{array} \right) \prec 0. \tag {11}
$$

Let $K _ { i }$ be computed as described in (9). We perform a congruence transform to the left-hand side of (11) by diag $\left( ( \mathcal { P } ^ { i } ) ^ { - 1 } , P _ { i _ { s } } ^ { - 1 } \right)$ and obtain $\begin{array} { r l } { \left( { - ( \mathcal { P } ^ { i } ) ^ { - 1 } } \right. } & { { } \left. ( A _ { i } P _ { i _ { s } } ^ { - 1 } + B _ { i } Y _ { i } ) \right) } \\ { \star } & { { } \quad \left. - P _ { i _ { s } } ^ { - 1 } \right. } \end{array}$ −??−1 . From (11) it follows that the ???? above quantity is negative definite. By Schur complement, we have

$$\left(A _ {i} P _ {i _ {s}} ^ {- 1} + B _ {i} Y _ {i}\right) ^ {\top} (\mathcal {P} ^ {i}) ^ {- 1} (A _ {i} P _ {i _ {s}} ^ {- 1} + B _ {i} Y _ {i}) - P _ {i _ {s}} ^ {- 1} \prec 0. \tag {12}$$

Consequently, if the feasibility problem (8) admits a solution $Y _ { i }$ , then $K _ { i }$ computed as (9) satisfies (11). Conditions (10) and (12) together lead to (2).

Since $\textit { i } \in \textit { c } _ { j }$ was chosen arbitrarily, it follows that condition (2) holds for each plant $\textit { i } \in \boldsymbol { c } _ { j } .$ Moreover, since $j \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , v \}$ was chosen arbitrarily, we have that condition (2) holds for each plant $i \in \bigcup _ { j = 1 } ^ { v } c _ { j } .$ . By Lemma 1 i), the assertion of Theorem 2 follows. 

Remark 10. Our design of static state-feedback controllers in Algorithm 4 involves standard linear algebraic techniques for stabilization of Markovian jump linear systems. The analysis is similar in spirit to [9], where stability of a Markovian jump linear system was considered. We deal with a more general setting of simultaneous design of state-feedback controllers for ?? such systems.

We now present numerical experiments to demonstrate our results.
