# I. INTRODUCTION

In a typical control design problem, the role of data (time series) has been long dictated by indirect approaches [1 , 2], where system identification is sequentially followed by model-based control. However, the advent of large data sets and the ever-increasing computing power, combined with the ongoing revolution brought about by machine learning technologies, has recently triggered a renewed appreciation for direct approaches, where the objective is to infer optimal decisions directly from measured data.

A cornerstone of this newly emerging trend in control is a far-reaching result due to Willems and co-authors [3], commonly known as the fundamental lemma. Leveraging on the behavioral approach to system theory [4 , 5], the fundamental lemma establishes that parametric models of a data-generating linear time-invariant (LTI) system may be replaced by raw data, provided the dynamics are sufficiently excited. Following the contributions [6 – 8], the number of new data-driven control algorithms has boomed over the past few years, see, e.g., [9] for a recent overview. A convincing demonstration of the potential of direct approaches to datadriven control is the successful implementation of the DeePC algorithm [6] in a wide range of experimental case studies, including aerial robotics [10], synchronous motor drives [11], grid-connected power converters [12].

The new wave of data-driven control algorithms has primarily modeled uncertainty by ellipsoids [10 , 13 – 17]. A. Padoan, J. Coulson, J. Lygeros, F. D ¨orfler are with the Department of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering at ETH Z ¨urich, Z ¨urich, Switzerland {apadoan, jcoulson, lygeros, dorfler}@control.ee.ethz.ch. H. J. van Waarde is with the Bernoulli Institute for Mathematics, Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. h.j.van.waarde@rug.nl. Research supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation under the NCCR Automation.

While effective in many circumstances, this approach disregards the geometric structure of the data, leading to a possibly coarse characterization of uncertainty.
