Proof. Since the use time $T _ { u } ^ { k }$ of Real-time Update is fixed, its value does not affect the proof result. In Maximal Update, before updating the temperature field each time, the number of local maximum points corresponding to the current temperature field is limited, which is determined by the limited number of triangles in the triangulation result of the region. For each update of the temperature field, according to Lemma 4.2., $\exists T _ { 1 } > 0 , ~ \left| \left| \mathbf { s _ { i } } ( \mathbf { T _ { 1 } } ) - \mathbf { x _ { 0 } } \right| \right| \leq \mathbf { r _ { m i n } }$ . Then, according to (18), the agent can cover the triangular area where the local maximum point is located after stopping the movement, and the coverage time is

$$T _ {2} = \frac {m ^ {k} (x _ {0})}{p _ {i} (x _ {0} , \mathbf {s _ {i}})},$$

where $m ^ { k } ( x _ { 0 } )$ is the workload of local maximum point, $\mathbf { s _ { i } }$ is the location of agent i. It can be concluded that the coverage time of the triangular region where the local maximum point is located is $T _ { 1 } + T _ { 2 }$ , which is limited. According to the definition of maximum point $x _ { 0 }$ , we have

$$\bigtriangledown T _ {i} (x _ {0}) = 0, \quad H (T _ {i} (x _ {0})) < 0.$$

According to Lemma 4.1, we have $h _ { i } ( x _ { 0 } ) > 0$ . For the triangular region that has not been covered, due to finite triangulation cells of subregion $D _ { i } ,$ , it can be deduced that the coverage time of the region is finite, which completes the proof. □

Theorem 4.1. Algorithm 3 ensures the finite-time completion of cooperative coverage mission.

Proof. When $k < k _ { m a x }$ , each iteration takes finte time, which can be proved by Lemma 4.3.. For the $k _ { m a x } – \mathrm { t h }$ itration, the completion time depends on the maximum time for the agent to complete the subregion coverage. It is finite-time and can be proved in a similar way to Lemma 4.3.. □
