A key emphasis in the present paper is on the adaptive control of the maximal conductances of a conductance-based model. Each maximal conductance modulates the relative importance of a specific current source. Similar to the parameters of a conventional controller, the maximal conductances shape the total conductance of the controlled neurons. We wish to demonstrate that the online adaptation of maximal conductances provides a versatile framework to control the behaviour of a neuronal system. Online adaptation of the maximal conductances is aligned with the concept of neuromodulation, which is of key importance in the biological control of neuronal systems [5, 6, 7]. All nervous systems are subject to neuromodulation, and each neuron is potentially the target of multiple neuromodulators [8]. Furthermore, each modulator can act on multiple ionic currents in the same neuron [9].

Our methodology exploits the classical framework of model reference adaptive control [10]. This framework relies on key physical properties of electrical and mechanical circuits: a relative degree one between the two terminal variables of the port (current and voltage in the present paper), and contracting internal dynamics. We show that these properties can be exploited in conductance-based electrical circuits in the same way as they have been exploited in the impedancebased mechanical circuits of robotics. A core element of the proposed adaptive control design is the adaptive observer recently proposed for real-time estimation of conductance-based models in [11].

The paper is organised as follows. Section 2 introduces conductance-based models, including the specific parametrisation we will require. Section 3 summarises the adaptive observer design detailed in [11]. Section 4 employs this observer to solve the basic problems of adaptive reference tracking and adaptive disturbance rejection, as well as showing the relevance of such problems in the control of a simple biophysical neural network. Section 5 discusses the idealised assumptions of the present paper and possible routes to make the theoretical methodology amenable to practical solutions of control problems in electrophysiology or in neuromorphic engineering.
