$$
\varphi (\boldsymbol {x}) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0 & \text {if} \boldsymbol {x} \in \Omega , \\ \operatorname{dist} (\boldsymbol {x}, \partial \Omega) & \text {if} \boldsymbol {x} \not \in \Omega , \end{array} \right.
$$

where dis $( \pmb { x } , A )$ denotes the Euclidean distance between a vector x and a set A. Given any $\epsilon > 0$ it is known from [17] that

$$W _ {\epsilon} (\pmb {x}, t) := \inf _ {u} \left[ \int_ {t} ^ {T} \left\{H ^ {*} (s, x (s), - \dot {x} (s)) + \frac {1}{\epsilon} \varphi (x (s)) \right\} d s + g (x (T)): x (t) = \pmb {x} \right]$$

converges uniformly to W as  goes to 0, where $W ( x , t )$ solves

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} - W _ {t} + H (t, x, D W) = 0 & \quad \text {in} \quad \Omega \times (0, T), \\ W (x, T) = 0 & \quad \text {on} \quad \bar {\Omega}, \end{array} \right.
$$

in the viscosity sense. By the uniqueness of the viscosity solution, $W _ { \epsilon }$ converges uniformly to the value function V for the state-constrained optimal control problem as  tends to zero. Since $W _ { \epsilon } ( { \pmb x } , t )$ converges to (2.9) given $( { \pmb x } , t ) \in \bar { \Omega } \times [ 0 , T ]$ , the result follows. □

This is an interesting result that bridges the gap between the DP-based generalized Lax formula and the Lagrangian formula for state-constraint optimal control problems. Specifically, our result is novel in the sense that the generalized Lax formula can be understood through the lens of stateconstrained viscosity solutions. In [1], state-constraint optimal control problems are considered with time-varying constraint sets. Therefore, the standard state-constrained viscosity solution approach is unavailable. However, we consider a time-invariant constraint set Ω to make use of the ¯ theory of viscosity solutions and obtain a representation formula similar to that for unconstrained optimal control problems. More precisely, the value function of a state-constrained optimal control problem is approximated as that of the corresponding unconstrained problem by penalizing the region outside the constraint set. We then use Theorem 1 and take a limit with respect to the penalty parameter. Such a limit exists due to the classical theory of state-constrained viscosity solutions and we arrive at the same conclusion as that of Theorem 2.
