# 3 Construction of Optimal Controls

In this section, we present a method for extracting an optimal control u from an optimal $\beta$ obtained in evaluating the representation formula (2.7) or (2.10). Our method constructs an admissible control in the form of a simple function using the notion of δ-net. One of our main observations is that under some structural assumptions, the optimal value function is approximated accurately as long as the controlled state trajectory is close to an optimal trajectory.

We introduce structural assumptions needed for our analysis. They are imposed throughout this section.

Assumption 2. The stage-cost function is separable, i.e.,

$$L (t, \boldsymbol {x}, a) = S (t, \boldsymbol {x}) + R (t, a),$$

and for each $t , S ( t , \pmb { x } )$ and $R ( t , a )$ are convex in x and a, respectively.

Since $\pmb { x } \mapsto L ( t , \pmb { x } , a )$ is Lipschitz continuous, so is ${ \pmb x } \mapsto S ( t , { \pmb x } )$ . The aforementioned assumption will allow us to track duality properties effectively.

Assumption 3. The vector field and the terminal cost function satisfy the following properties:

• $f ( t , \pmb { x } , a )$ is affine in x, that is,

$$f (t, \boldsymbol {x}, a) = A x + h (t, a)$$

for some matrix $A \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ . Moreover, for each t, $h ( t , a )$ is Lipschitz continuous in a;

• g is convex.

Under these assumptions, H∗ can be computed explicitly as illustrated in [1]. Let

$$\tilde {R} (t, b) := \inf _ {a \in U} \{R (t, a): - f (t, \boldsymbol {x}, a) = b \}.$$

Then, $\tilde { L } ( t , { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { \mathit { x } } } } , b ) = S ( t , { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { \mathit { x } } } } ) + \tilde { R } ( t , b )$ . Therefore, the Hamiltonian has the following separable structure:

$$
\begin{array}{l} H (t, \boldsymbol {x}, p) = \sup _ {b \in B (\boldsymbol {x}, t)} \left\{p \cdot b - \tilde {L} (t, \boldsymbol {x}, b) \right\} \\ = - S (t, \boldsymbol {x}) + \sup _ {b \in B (\boldsymbol {x}, t)} \{p \cdot b - \tilde {R} (t, b) \}. \\ \end{array}
$$

The convex conjugate of the Hamiltonian can be expressed as

$$
\begin{array}{l} H ^ {*} (t, \boldsymbol {x}, b) = \sup _ {p} \{b \cdot p - H (t, \boldsymbol {x}, p) \} \\ = S (t, \boldsymbol {x}) + \sup _ {p} \left[ b \cdot p - \sup _ {b ^ {\prime} \in B (\boldsymbol {x}, t)} \{p \cdot b ^ {\prime} - \tilde {R} (t, b ^ {\prime}) \} \right]. \\ \end{array}
$$

Letting $H _ { R } ( t , { \pmb x } , p ) : = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { b \in B ( { \pmb x } , t ) } \{ p \cdot b - \tilde { R } ( t , b ) \}$ , we have
