# 1 Introduction

With the rapid development of communication and electronic technology, multi-agent systems have been widely used in many application fields, including exploration, surveillance, region coverage, search and rescue [1]. Compared with a single agent, a team of agents are more efficient to carry out a complicated task, especially in the uncertain environment. Specifically, the workload of each individual in the system is relatively reduced and the increase in the number makes the whole system obtain more comprehensive information. Meanwhile, distributed system design enables each agent to cooperate to complete tasks while ensuring individual independence. Naturally, the research on system cooperation has become the main content, and has a lot of research results in [2]-[7].

Among various coordination tasks, multi-agent region coverage is a hot research topic. Taking multi-sensor network as an example, the given area is covered to accomplish the global monitoring task, in which the deployment mode of the sensor has to be explored in order to achieve the maximum coverage rate and the shortest coverage time. To deal with this problem, distributed strategy (i.e., divide-and-conquer) may paly a crucial role in handling environmental uncertainties. For instance, [8] and [9] capitalize on Voronoi partition and introduce an optimization method to deploy the sensor networks. In [10], environment information is learned online with prior information. In [1]-[12], the online workload partition and distributed coverage control algorithm are proposed, and the coverage time is estimated for algorithm comparison.

In [13], a centralized coverage control algorithm is proposed based on temperature transfer equation. While ensuring the coverage efficiency, it can also deal with the coverage problem of non-convex regions. However, agents are prone to collision during movement using this coverage method, and there may be the problem that multiple agents cover the same area, which results in the degradation of efficiency of transitional coverage. For this reason, this paper aims to propose a distributed coverage algorithm by taking into account workload partition and dynamic coverage. In brief, key contributions of this work are summarized as follows:
