In addition, In the above work, the network topology is usually fixed, and each individual is described by a firstorder integrator. In engineering practice, the network topology may change and the individual dynamics in the network are also different. This brings a challenge to analyze the controllability of the system by using graph theory. Firstly, the concept of equitable partition is extended to directed signed multi-agent systems with switched topology in Tian, Guan and Wang (2019), however, the concept of equitable partition is not used to analyze the relationship between union graph controllability and system controllability. Secondly, Zhang, Cao and Camlibel (2014) analyzes the controllability of multi-agent systems whose individual dynamics is a general linear system and reveals the new characteristics of the system compared with the first-order integrator system. Therefore, for matrix-weighted networks, it is meaningful to analyze the characteristics of individual dynamics when it is a general linear system. Finally, the difference of individuals dynamics in the network is also a challenge to the controllability analysis, especially for graphical methods. Specifically, most of the existing results of system controllability from the perspective of graph theory analyze the influence of some special structures based on the same dynamics of each individual. However, if we use different colors to label network nodes with different dynamics, the distribution law of nodes with different colors on the graph is a generalized graphic feature, which needs to be further studied in the conventional graphic feature. Therefore, it is necessary to analyze how individual dynamics affect the results of controllability and observability of the matrixweighted signed networks.

In this paper, the controllability and observability of linear multi-agent systems over matrix-weighted signed networks are analyzed. The main contributions of this paper are as follows.
