Controllability and observability are fundamental topics in control theory. The concept of controllability provides helps for the design of control law, and observability describes an ability to use partial information to figure out the whole system states. Kalman Kalman (1963) first proposed the concept of controllability, and it was generalized to multi-agent systems by Tanner Tanner (2004). The system is controllable if the leader’s state can be adjusted through an external input signal to guide the follower to any desired state. Most of the existing results of controllability and observability are obtained through the structural characteristics of graphs, especially the partition of graphs. Analyzing the controllability from the perspective of graph theory, especially partition, can directly determine the controllability of the system and save the calculation time. For example, the effects of network structure on system controllability from the perspective of equitable or distance partition (EP or DP) were discussed in Rahmani, Ji, Mesbahi and Egerstedt (2009); Ji and Egerstedt (2007); Martini, Egerstedt and Bicchi (2010), the results show that the upper and lower bounds of controllable subspace can be directly determined according to the number of cells and path length in the network, which provides convenience for the determination of system controllability. While Zamani and Lin (2009); Liu, Slotine and Barabási (2011) discussed the structural controllability of different networks from the perspective of structured systems. It is worth noting that these works deal with the simplest cases. To make the controllability results proposed in these studies more applicable to various scenarios, some related work has appeared in recent years, such as Guan et al.Guan, Ji, Zhang and Wang (2017) extended the concept of equitable partition to the case of the directed graph. Ji et al discussed the case of delay or switching topology Ji, Wang, Lin and Wang (2010), signed graph Sun, Hu and Xie (2017); Gao, Ji and Hou (2018); Guan and Wang (2018); She, Mehta, Ton and Kan (2018) was also discussed in recent years.
