# VI. OBSERVER DESIGN

This section aims to introduce a novel observer design (DEMs) for the joint state and noise smoothness estimation of a linear system with colored noise. We formulate the noise smoothness estimator from the previous section (gradient ascend on F), using the Newton-Gauss update scheme:

$$s (t + d t) = s (t) + d s, \tag {15}d s = (e ^ {F _ {s s} | _ {t} d t} - 1) (F _ {s s} | _ {t}) ^ {- 1} F _ {s} | _ {t},$$

where $s ( t )$ is the smoothness at time t, and ds is the smoothness increment for a time increment of dt. We combine this observer design with the standard DEM observer design for state estimation [7], where the update equation in the continuous time is given by:

$$
\dot {\tilde {x}} = A _ {1} \tilde {x} + B _ {1} \left[ \begin{array}{l} \tilde {\mathbf {y}} \\ \tilde {\mathbf {v}} \end{array} \right] \tag {16}
$$

where $A _ { 1 } = [ D ^ { x } - k ^ { x } \tilde { C } ^ { T } \tilde { \Pi } ^ { z } \tilde { C } - k ^ { x } ( D ^ { x } - \tilde { A } ) ^ { T } \tilde { \Pi } ^ { w } ( D ^ { x } - \tilde { A } ) ] , B _ { 1 } =$ $\begin{array} { r l } { k ^ { x } \left. \tilde { C } ^ { T } \tilde { \Pi } ^ { z } \right. } & { { } ( \mathbf { \dot { D } } ^ { x } - \tilde { A } ) ^ { T } \tilde { \Pi } ^ { w } \tilde { B } } \end{array}$ , and $k ^ { x }$ is the learning rate which is set to 1 throughout this paper. Since Equation 16 is a linear differential equation, an exact algebraic discretization can be performed for the observer as:

$$
\tilde {x} (t + d t) = e ^ {A _ {1} d t} \tilde {x} (t) + A _ {1} ^ {- 1} (e ^ {A _ {1} d t} - I) B _ {1} \left[ \begin{array}{l} \tilde {\mathbf {y}} (t) \\ \tilde {\mathbf {v}} (t) \end{array} \right] \tag {17}
$$

Equations 15 and 17 together complete our observer design. Note that $A _ { 1 }$ and $B _ { 1 }$ are nonlinear functions of s because of the presence of $\tilde { \Pi } ^ { w }$ and Π˜ z in it. Therefore, the update equations of state and noise smoothness observers are coupled. Since this heavily complicates the stability proof of the joint estimator, we leave it for future research.
