# 6. Observability analysis

Compared with controllability, observability is also a topic worth discussing, which is used to measure the ability of reconstructing the state of the whole network. Our previous discussion is based on the leader-follower structure. The leader is used to receive external input signals to control the whole network. Similarly, we can directly measure the state of some nodes, and then use these information to estimate the overall states of the network. Therefore, we call these nodes that can read the states directly as output points and the remaining nodes are called observed points. Accordingly, an architecture of output nodes-observed nodes is proposed to analyze the observability.

From the viewpoint of control, it is expected to find a controllable and observable system. For multi-agent systems, this requires that the controllability factor should be considered when selecting the output points. Therefore, in this paper, each leader in the network discussed above is selected as an output point, and the system can be described as

$$\dot {x} (t) = \tilde {L} x (t) + \tilde {M} y (t) \quad \dot {y} (t) = \tilde {M} ^ {T} x (t) \tag {5}$$

where

$$
\tilde {L} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} A & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & A & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & A \end{array} \right] - \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} B K & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & B K & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & B K \end{array} \right] L

\tilde {M} = M \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} C & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & C & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & C \end{array} \right].
$$

The observability of system (5) is equivalent to the controllability of its dual system. The dual system is represented as follows.

$$\dot {x} (t) = \tilde {L} ^ {T} x (t) + \tilde {M} y (t), \quad \dot {y} (t) = \tilde {M} ^ {T} x (t) \tag {6}$$

where $\tilde { L } ^ { T }$ is

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} A ^ {T} & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & A ^ {T} & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & A ^ {T} \end{array} \right] \\ - L ^ {T} \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \bar {K} ^ {T} B ^ {T} & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & K ^ {T} B ^ {T} & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & K ^ {T} B ^ {T} \end{array} \right] \\ \end{array}
$$

and 𝑀̃ is

$$
\tilde {M} = M \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} C & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & C & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & C \end{array} \right].
$$
