# 4.1. Adaptive reference tracking

The classical problem of reference tracking is to design a controller such that the voltage output v asymptotically converges to the voltage reference $v _ { r }$ . If we assume that both the output v and the reference $v _ { r }$ are solutions of identical conductance-based models, this tracking problem reduces to the classical problem of synchronisation.

Here we consider the adaptive version of the tracking problem: we assume that the reference generator is a conductance-based model with constant but unknown vector parameter $\theta _ { r }$ and that the controlled circuit is a conductancebased model with the same model structure, and with a parameter $\theta$ that is also unknown. The problem of adaptive synchronisation has been considered in [23, 24], in the context of secure communication via encryption in chaotic reference generators. Assuming a perfect knowledge of the ion channel kinetics $g ( v , w )$ , the solution presented here is relevant to track the neuromodulation of a neuron in vivo or to learn the parameters of a silicon neuron from experimental traces.

We will first describe how to solve adaptive reference tracking without synchronisation. This yields an oscillation which follows the reference but with a possible phase shift. The phase shift is then eliminated with an additional resistive element in the controller.

We solve the adaptive reference tracking problem by estimating both the reference model and the controlled model with the observer design of the previous section. The observer of the reference generator provides an estimate $\scriptstyle { \hat { x } } _ { r }$ of the reference state vector ${ \boldsymbol x } _ { r } = ( v _ { r } , w _ { r } , \theta _ { r } )$ whereas the observer of the controlled model provides an estimate $\hat { x }$ of the controlled model state vector $x = ( v , w , \theta )$ . We use the control law $u ( t ) = I _ { \mathrm { c o n t r o l } } ( t ) + u _ { r } ( t )$ , where $u _ { r } ( t )$ is the input to the reference neuron, and

$$I _ {\text { control }} (t) = \Phi (v, \hat {w}) (\underline {{\rho}} (\hat {\theta} _ {r}) - \overline {{\rho}} (\hat {\theta})), \tag {12}$$
