# C. Fundamental Results

We state a few results from graph theory and consensus analysis to be used subsequently.

Proposition II.1. [39] A graph G is bipartite if and only if G has no cycle of odd length.

Proposition II.2. [40] The smallest eigenvalue of the signless Laplacian matrix $\mathcal { Q } = \mathcal { D } + \mathcal { A }$ of an undirected and connected graph is equal to zero if and only if the graph is bipartite. In case the graph is bipartite, zero is a simple eigenvalue

The following is a re-wording of [41, Theorem 3.4].

Proposition II.3. Consider the time-varying dynamics,

$$\dot {x} = - \sigma N (t) N ^ {\top} (t) x, \quad x (0) = x _ {0} \tag {1}$$

with $N : \mathbb { R } ^ { + }  \mathbb { R } ^ { k \times p }$ being a piecewise continuous matrix function. $I f ~ N ( \cdot )$ is persistently exciting (Definition $^ { 4 ) , }$ , then the above dynamics admits a Lyapunov function

$$V (t, x) = \frac {1}{2} x ^ {\top} [ \pi I _ {k} + S (t) ] x$$

where,

$$S (t) = 2 \delta_ {T} I _ {k} - \frac {2}{T} \int_ {t} ^ {t + T} \int_ {t} ^ {r} N (\tau) N ^ {\top} (\tau) d \tau d r$$

and the positive constants $\pi , \delta _ { T }$ are defined as,

$$
\begin{array}{l} \delta_ {T} \triangleq T | N (\cdot) N ^ {\top} (\cdot) | _ {\infty}, \\ \pi \triangleq 1 + \frac {2 \sigma^ {2} \delta_ {T} ^ {3}}{\mu_ {1}}. \\ \end{array}
$$

Further, the states of the dynamical system (1) are uniformly exponentially stable at the origin.

The following result was established as part of the proof in [38, section IIA].

Proposition II.4. The following hold for an undirected graph $\mathcal { G } ( t )$ over n- nodes, with Laplacian $\mathcal { L } ( t )$ and weighted incidence matrix H(t) (Definition 1).

• $\begin{array} { r } { \Big ( \mathscr { L } ( t ) + \frac { \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } ^ { \top } } { n } \Big ) = \Big ( \mathscr { H } ( t ) + \frac { \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } h ^ { \top } ( t ) } { \sqrt { n } } \Big ) \Big ( \mathscr { H } ( t ) + \frac { \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } h ^ { \top } ( t ) } { \sqrt { n } } \Big ) ^ { \top } , } \end{array}$ where h(t) is unit vector in the kernel of H(t).   
• The graph G(t) is jointly (δ, T )-connected (Definition 3) for some $\delta , T > 0 \ i f$ and only $\begin{array} { r } { i f \left( \mathcal { H } ( t ) + \frac { \dot { \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } } h ^ { \top } ( t ) } { \sqrt { n } } \right) } \end{array}$ is persistently exciting (Definition 4).
