The motivation for the problem of consensus under sensor bias originates from mechanical systems that have only relative position and absolute velocity measurements available for feedback. However, relative position sensors suffer from errors such as bias in measurements. Unknown biases can appear during the functioning of various sensors such as rate gyros, accelerometers, magnetometers, altimeters, range sensors etc. These biases can be an outcome of inaccurate sensor calibration, environmental conditions, etc. The presence of bias deteriorates the performance of control laws on the network, and may result in stability issues [8], [9], [10]. Specifically, bias in relative position feedback could drive the agents to infinity, if not compensated. It is, therefore, of interest to estimate the biases and possibly nullify their effect on the network. In the context of the continuous system, bias uncertainties in measurements are in general, sparsely studied. In the context of a single rigid-body system, ‘gyro bias’ is the most commonly addressed bias uncertainty and has been studied in detail in several references, including [11], [12], [13]. However, the literature on adaptive estimation and compensation of ‘position’ sensor bias is somewhat limited and the only relevant contributions known to the authors are by [14], [15]. There have of course been parallel approaches using nonsmooth control laws, where disturbance rejection is possible for both single and networked second-order systems subject to knowledge of bounds on the bias uncertainty which is then modeled as a bounded disturbance. Such non smooth laws for disturbance rejection in double integrator systems have been explored in [16], [17], [18], [19]. An approach to estimating measurement inconsistencies using an output regulation-based technique is presented in [20]. Accurate estimation in [20], however requires a unique constant, graph structure.
