Safety within SMPC is specifically addressed in [18] for automated vehicles. This failsafe SMPC approach uses a failsafe backup predictive controller, which guarantees that the next SMPC input may be safely applied, ensuring safe SMPC trajectories for automated driving. Further approaches have recently been proposed to address safety within MPC. A combination of MPC and control barrier functions allows considering safety similarly to how Lyapunov functions are used for stability [19], [20]. However, guaranteeing recursive feasibility in the presence of uncertainty remains a challenge. An MPC approach to minimize constraint violation probability is proposed in [21], but the method is only applicable if norm-based constraints can be employed. In [22], [23] a predictive safety filter is proposed to guarantee safety in probability for reinforcement learning. This is achieved by enforcing that only those reinforcement learning-based inputs may be applied, which allow for satisfaction of a softconstrained optimal control problem (OCP).

In this work, we propose an SMPC safety algorithm for linear systems with additive uncertainty and polytopic constraints. This general safety algorithm significantly extends the approach in [18], which only considered one specific SMPC approach designed for automated vehicles. The safety algorithm of this work guarantees safety (satisfying all constraints) by employing a backup controller, which ensures that applying the first optimized SMPC input allows still finding a safe backup trajectory in the following step. The key contributions are as follows.

• We provide a safety algorithm compatible with any SMPC for linear systems with additive uncertainty and polytopic constraints. Furthermore, the risk parameter of the SMPC does not influence safety, and no terminal constraint is required in the SMPC OCP.   
• We guarantee recursive feasibility of the safety algorithm and, in contrast to [18], we ensure input-to-state stability of the system origin.
