Most of the existing results on the controllability and observability of multi-agent systems are mainly based on scalar-weighted networks. The concept of matrix weighted network is introduced to describe more complex systems, for example, opinion dynamics Ye, Trinh, Lim, Anderson and Ahn (2020) and formation control Zhao and Zelazo (2015). Compared with the scalar-weighted networks, the matrix-weighted networks can manifest the interaction between the different states of individuals and the states of corresponding neighbors more precisely. It is non-trivial to analyze its controllability although the matrix weight network seems to be a natural extension of the scalar weight network. For instance, additional complexity is introduced because the rank of weight matrix is not fixed when describing the dimension of controllable subspace. Pan, Shao, Mesbahi, Xi and Li (2020) analyzed the controllability of matrix-weighted network by using the method of almost equitable partition and distance partition and gave the upper and lower bounds of controllable subspace. Notably, the weight matrix is assumed to be positive definite or positive semi-definite in their work. However, the weight matrix may also be negative definite and negative semi-definite in more cases. The consensus problem under the assumption that the weight matrix can be negative definite or negative semi-definite was discussed in Su, Chen, Yang and Rong (2020), however, this assumption has not been taken into account in the controllability analysis from the perspective of graph theory. Therefore, it is meaningful to consider the controllability and observability of the matrix-weighted signed networks under the assumption.
