In this paper, motivated by [29], [32], we propose a complementary design approach to the $H _ { 2 }$ and $H _ { \infty }$ consensus problem of linear multi-agent systems. This complementary approach consists of two steps. In the first step, we design a distributed control law for the nominal multi-agent system, without considering the disturbances or uncertainties, to ensure that consensus is achieved with a prescribed $H _ { 2 }$ performance. In the second step, a separate control input, activated by some carefully chosen residual signals indicating the modeling mismatch, will be designed to ensure robustness in terms of the $H _ { \infty }$ requirement. Two cases are considered, namely, the case that relative outputs or absolute outputs of neighboring agents are available. Suitable residual signals are chosen for both cases. For the first case with relative outputs, the residual signal is defined as the stacked error between the actual relative outputs of neighboring agents and their observed ones given by a distributed observer. For the second case with absolute outputs, the residual signal quantifies the differences between the actual agent dynamics and the ideal agent dynamics. A distinct feature of this complementary approach is that the design of $H _ { 2 }$ consensus control in this first step is independent of the second step and the extra control action in the second step will complement the $H _ { 2 }$ performance by providing a robustness guarantee with respect to disturbances or uncertainties.
