# I. INTRODUCTION

The rising demand for autonomous drone delivery systems has increased the need for accurate state observers that are robust against uncertain events like strong wind currents. These unmodelled wind currents induce colored noise to the system, hindering the safe operation of drones. We take a step in this direction by using the ideas from computational neuroscience to introduce a novel state and noise smoothness observer design for linear systems with colored noise.

The classical linear estimators like Kalman Filter (KF) assumes the noises to be white. This assumption is often violated in practice, resulting in a sub-optimal estimation [1]. Many adaptations on KF have been introduced to overcome this challenge, including Second Moment Information Kalman filter (SMIKF) [2], State Augmentation (SA) [3], Measurement Differencing (MD) [4] etc. Dynamic Expectation Maximization (DEM) [5], based on Free Energy Principle (FEP) [6] from neuroscience has recently been used to design state and input observers [7] that has shown to outperform the classical methods both in simulation and in real robot experiments [8]. However, DEM requires the prior knowledge of the noise smoothness parameter for the accurate state estimation. To solve this problem, we introduce a novel online noise smoothness estimator based on FEP, for linear systems with colored noise. The core contributions of the paper include:

1) introduction of an online smoothness estimator for the state estimation of linear systems under colored noise,   
2) extensive evaluation of the estimator in simulation and its validation on a real robot (quadrotor flight) data.

Both authors are with the Department of Cognitive Robotics at TU Delft, The Netherlands. Corresponding author: ajitham1994@gmail.com
