• Voltage measurements are assumed to be exact in this paper, but the spiking nature of the signals suggests that a much coarser information about reference or disturbance signals might be sufficient to modulate the rhythm of a neuron. Future work will explore this possibility to reduce the computational demand of the full observer. Here, neurophysiology will also be a useful guide. For instance, it is well-known that calcium is an essential second messenger involved in neuromodulation. In the present paper (as in many models of the literature), the intracellular calcium concentration is simply modelled as a low-pass filtered version of the voltage (as in (3)). Earlier models have suggested simple yet general homeostatic principles for the adaptation of cellular conductances using the intracellular calcium concentration as a feedback signal [32].

• Hierarchical adaptation. The adaptive controller in this paper is at the cellular scale, and the emphasis is on showing that adaptive controllers at the cellular scale can modulate behaviours at the network level. But there is no doubt that adaptation is multi-scale in biological networks. Adaptive conductance control of conductance-based models is conducive to hierarchical and multi-scale controllers that deserve further research. Adaptive control of a synaptic conductance can be further decentralised and use a conductance observer that only involves the synaptic gating variable, as well as the pre- and post- synaptic voltages. Likewise, adaptive control of a mean-field (or large ensemble) of conductances can be based on an aggregate observer that only involves the mean-field voltage of a population. Here, we also anticipate that the physical nature of the electrical circuit model will allow flexible designs of multi-scale and hierarchical adaptive controllers.
