Remark 8. Recall that we have been operating under Assumption 3. The requirement for this assumption is purely technical and specific to our key apparatus of analysis. With $N ^ { \mathrm { q } } \mathrm { o } M \neq 0$ and the probabilistic logic for the selection of plants employed in Algorithm 1, the individual plants cannot be modelled as Markovian jump linear systems whose transition process is a time homogeneous Markov chain. Indeed, consider the Markovian jump linear system modelling of each plant in NCS under a scheduling logic, $\gamma ,$ obtained from Algorithm 1 as employed in our proof of Theorem 1. We could use a time homogeneous Markov chain under the assertion of Lemma 1 ii). If $N ^ { \mathrm { q } } \mathrm { o } M \neq 0$ and $v = \lceil N / M \rceil$ , then there exists at least one $i \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , N \}$ that appears in more than one $c _ { j } ,$ $j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , v .$ Consequently, the probability of transition to mode $i _ { s }$ are possibly multiple for different $j \in \{ 1 , 2 , \dots , v \}$ such that ?? appears in $c _ { j } .$ . As a result, the transition probability matrix, Π?? , is no longer constant. A time inhomogeneous Markov chain with a time-varying transition probability matrix is suitable for the setting where no restriction on how the numbers ?? and ?? are connected is imposed. This general case is beyond the scope of this paper and we identify it as a topic for future work.

Remark 9. In this paper we have proposed a probabilistic algorithm for scheduling NCSs. Our tool is new and differs from the techniques existing currently in the literature. We highlight the following features:

(a) In terms of offline computations required prior to the implementation of the scheduling logic, our technique is close to a static scheduling mechanism. Indeed, in case of the latter, a finite length allocation scheme is computed offline and is repeated eternally, while we compute a finite set of disjoint sets and probabilities for their activation and use the quantities eternally.   
(b) Unlike a dynamic scheduling mechanism, our technique does not consider properties of the plants and/or the communication network and/or other components in the NCS at every instant of time.   
(c) Our technique does not adapt to unforeseen/sudden faults in the system. The mechanism needs to be interrupted externally, and a new set of disjoint sets and their associated probabilities are to be fed.
