In this paper, we revisit the generalized Lax formula from the Lagrangian perspective to provide a unified view. We first show that the generalized Lax formula can be directly derived using the Lagrangian framework from the theory of HJ equations. For optimal control problems without state constraints, the generalized Lax formula corresponds to the Lagrangian formula under a simple change of variables. To extend to state-constrained problems, we introduce a penalty function that penalizes the Lagrangian outside of a prescribed domain, as in [17], which in turn relates viscosity solutions to state-constrained viscosity solutions [18]. Under some structural assumptions, we also discuss a concrete way to construct an optimal control in the form of a simple function using the notion of δ-net with the optimality gap bounded by Cδ for some positive constant C. Another important observation is that the Lagrangian framework provides a natural representation of the value function using the convex conjugate of the Hamiltonian, even if the original optimal control problem is nonconvex. Exploiting this property, we propose a controller synthesis scheme via convex optimization. The results of our numerical experiments show that the proposed scheme significantly reduces oscillations in control trajectories while achieving slightly lower total costs compared to the method proposed in [1].

This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we revisit the generalized Lax formula using the Lagrangian framework from the theory of HJ equations. In Section 3, a theoretically rigorous way to construct optimal controls is discussed, together with its algorithmic implications. Section 4 presents a controller synthesis scheme and its application to a state-constrained optimal control example.
