Remark 4. The two-step complementary approach proposed in this section, compared to the trade-off approach, has at least two main advantages:

i) The extra control $Q ( s )$ in (21) provides an additional degree of freedom for design. Therefore, the current complementary approach has two separate control inputs to deal with the $H _ { 2 }$ performance and the $H _ { \infty }$ robustness of consensus, respectively, thereby does not need to make much trade-off, and can be expected to be much less conservative,while the trade-off design has only one control to tackle two conflicting performances simultaneously. Although Theorems 2 and 4 in this section are conservative, however, it should be pointed out that the conservatism of these results is not caused by the complementary approach. On the contrary, it in fact highlights the difficulty of distributed control.   
ii) The control action of the inner loop is proportional to the residual signal which quantifies the modeling mismatch level, thereby having some online “adaptivity” with respect to modeling errors. This complementary approach will yield the same achievable $H _ { 2 }$ performance when modeling mismatches do not exist, because in this case the inner loop will be de-activated. By contrast, the trade-off approach always considers the a priori worst case and produce the same conservative performance even when disturbances or uncertainties disappear.

Remark 5. It should be mentioned that the order of the overall control law designed by the complementary approach is higher than the trade-off approach, since both distributed protocols (4a) and (21) are required in the former approach while only one dynamic controller is needed in the latter. This is the price to provide more degree of design freedom and it is actually not a big issue considering the abundance of cheep storage and computing resources. Besides, the extra control action of the inner loop, providing robustness guarantee, will inject some white noises into the closed-loop network dynamics, and thereby will make certain compromise of the $H _ { 2 }$ performance.
