Different from the CLRF in Section 3.1, the CLKF is defined on $C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } )$ such that the time-delay trajectory is involved directly. For instance, if $\begin{array} { r } { V _ { \mathbf { k } } ( \phi ) = | \phi ( 0 ) | ^ { 2 } + \int _ { - \Lambda } ^ { 0 } | \phi ( s ) | ^ { 2 } d s } \end{array}$ , then $V _ { \mathrm { k 1 } } ( \phi ( 0 ) ) ~ = ~ \vert \phi ( 0 ) \vert ^ { 2 }$ and $\begin{array} { r } { V _ { { \bf k } 2 } ( \phi ) ~ = ~ \int _ { - \Lambda } ^ { 0 } | \phi ( s ) | ^ { 2 } d s } \end{array}$ . In addition, $L _ { f } V _ { { \bf k } 1 } ( \phi ) = 2 \phi ^ { \top } ( 0 ) f ( \phi ) , L _ { g } V _ { { \bf k } 1 } ( \tilde { \phi } ) \tilde { u } = 2 \phi ^ { \top } ( 0 ) g ( \phi ) u$ and $D ^ { + } \dot { V _ { { \bf k } 2 } } ( \phi ) = | \phi ( 0 ) | ^ { 2 } - | \phi ( - \Delta ) | ^ { 2 }$ . From (31), we define the set $\begin{array} { r } { \mathbb { K } _ { \mathbb { k } } \mathbf { \Psi } : = \mathbf { \Psi } \{ u \textbf { } \in \mathbb { ~ U } \mathbf { \Psi } : \ L _ { f } V _ { \mathrm { k l } } ( \phi ) \mathbf { \Psi } + \ D ^ { + } V _ { \mathrm { k } 2 } ( \phi ) \mathbf { \Psi } + \ L _ { g } V _ { \mathrm { k } 1 } ( \phi ) u \mathbf { \Psi } < } \end{array}$ < $- \gamma _ { \vert \vert } ( V _ { \vert } ( \phi ) ) \}$ . Similar to the mechanism in (9), the set $\mathbb { K } _ { \sf I k }$ is non-empty. Therefore, any locally Lipschitz controller in the set $\mathbb { K } _ { \sf I k }$ leads to the stabilization of the system (1). Similar to the R-SCP of Definition 4, we propose the Krasovskii-type SCP as follows.

Definition 10. Consider the system (1) with a $\mathrm { C L K F } \ V _ { \mathrm { k } } ,$ , the system (1) is said to satisfy the Krasovskii-type small control property (K-SCP), if for arbitrary $\varepsilon > 0$ , there exists $\delta > 0$ such that, for any nonzero $\phi \in C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathbf { B } ( \delta ) )$ ), there exists $u \in \mathbf { B } ( \varepsilon )$ such that $L _ { f } V _ { \mathrm { k } 1 } ( \phi ) + D ^ { + } V _ { \mathrm { k } 2 } ( \phi ) + L _ { g } V _ { \mathrm { k } 1 } ( \phi ) u < - \gamma _ { \mathrm { l k } } ( V _ { \mathrm { k } } ( \phi ) )$ .

Definition 10 extends the SCP to the time-delay case in terms of the Krasovskii approach. Definition 10 is similar to item (iv) of Hypothesis 8 in [26] for neutral functional differential equations, while different from the one in [41], where $\phi \in { \cal C } ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathbf { B } ( \delta ) )$ with $\phi ( 0 ) \neq 0$ is required. With the proposed CLKF and K-SCP, the controller is derived in the next theorem to ensure the stabilization of the system (1).

Theorem 5. If the system (1) admits a CLKF and satisfies the K-SCP, then the following controller
