# 2.2 Coverage metrics

After dividing the coverage region into multiple subregions, we need to determine the performance index, which is used to describe the coverage level of agents on the responsible region. Due to hardware limitations of agents, the coverage scope of each agent is limited at certain time. [15] proposed a monotonically decreasing differentiable function $p _ { i } ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { s _ { i } } )$ to quantify the coverage capacity of agent i at the point x per unit time.

$$
p _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {s} _ {\mathbf {i}}) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} P _ {i} e ^ {- \lambda_ {i} d (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {s} _ {\mathbf {i}})} & d (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {s} _ {\mathbf {i}}) \leq \mathbf {r} \\ 0 & d (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {s} _ {\mathbf {i}}) > \mathbf {r} \end{array} , \right. \tag {2}
$$

where $P _ { i } > 0$ represents the maximum coverage capacity of the agent $i ,$ and $\lambda _ { i }$ is the attenuation coefficient and r is the effective coverage radius. In the actual coverage process, the agent does not remain stationary. Assume that the coverage capacity of each agent remains unchanged. For agent $i ,$ its total coverage to point $\mathbf { x } \in D$ during the period [0, t] is given by

$$c _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, t) = \int_ {0} ^ {t} p _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, s _ {i} (\tau)) d \tau . \tag {3}$$

For the region $D ,$ the workload is represented by $m ( { \bf x } , t )$ , which can be obtained as follows

$$m (\mathbf {x}, t) = \max \left(0, m _ {0} (\mathbf {x}) - \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} c _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, t)\right), \tag {4}$$

where $m _ { 0 } ( \mathbf { x } )$ is the initial value of workload on coverage region. Thus, it can be expressed that the total workload of the area is

$$M (t) = \int_ {D} m (\mathbf {x}, t) d \mathbf {x}, \quad M (0) = \int_ {D} m _ {0} (\mathbf {x}) d \mathbf {x}. \tag {5}$$

Through the above analysis, we can transform the task of area coverage into making the total workload equal to $0 ,$ i.e. $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } M ( t ) = 0 } \end{array}$ . However, in addition to completing the coverage task, it is also required to achieve region coverage in the shortest time. Let $T ^ { * }$ represent the optimal time of covering the whole region and $T$ is the actual coverage time. Note that the coverage velocity of each agent is equal, and it is denoted by v. In light of (2), v can be computed by

$$v = \int_ {d (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {s} _ {\mathrm{i}}) \leq \mathbf {r}} p _ {i} (\mathbf {x}, s _ {i}) d \mathbf {x}. \tag {6}$$

$T ^ { * }$ can be computed by

$$T ^ {*} = \frac {1}{N v} M (0), \tag {7}$$

which is unavailable due to environmental uncertainties, and the error is given by $\Delta T = T - T ^ { * }$ . The objective of this study is to design a distributed online coverage scheme to minimize the actual coverage time.
