# 2.4 Physics-Based Constraints

In control engineering we expect models to be physically plausible. If the dynamics of a given model M and the corresponding system S are compared by means of a physicsbased restriction, e.g., energy balance at time t, and deviate only marginally from each other for all data samples considered, we will call the model M physically plausible. Thus, assuming that the physics-based model $\mathcal { M } _ { p h y }$ with $\tilde { \pmb { f } } : \tilde { \mathbb { X } } \times \mathbb { U } \times \mathbb { T } \mapsto \tilde { \mathbb { X } }$ is physically plausible, we only need to ensure that the mapping function $\widehat { \pmb { \mathscr { F } } } \colon \hat { \mathbb { X } } ^ { N _ { t } } \times \mathbb { U } ^ { N _ { t } } \times $ $\mathbb { T } ^ { N _ { t } } \times \tilde { \mathbb { X } } ^ { N _ { t } } \mapsto \hat { \mathbb { X } }$ respects basic physics laws for the whole hybrid model $\mathcal { M } _ { P G R N N }$ to be physically plausible as well. Since data-driven modeling strategies constitute iterative optimization processes, one could suggest to embed the desired physics-based constraints as plain (optimization) constraints on the cost function, e.g., see Raymond and Camarillo (2021). However, to conserve the conditioning of the training process, in contrast to previous works, Dener et al. (2020); G¨otte and Timmermann (2022), a more sophisticated approach is used here.

As introduced in Kreißelmeier and Steinhauser (1979), vector performance index optimization can be used to simultaneously optimize for several mutually independent objective functions. This multi-objective optimization approach involves the construction of boundaries, one for each objective function, and their successive contraction, yielding Pareto-optimal solutions. Based on their approach, in each training iteration i, we define default values $c _ { j } ^ { ( i ) } \in [ 0 , \infty )$ with $j = 1 , \dotsc , L$ to norm the L respective objective values $L o s s _ { j } ^ { ( i ) } > 0$ . We obtain the training objective $J ^ { ( i ) }$ as the maximum normed objective:

$$J ^ {(i)} (\cdot) = \max \left\{\frac {\text { Loss } _ {1} ^ {(i)} (\cdot)}{c _ {1} ^ {(i)}}, \dots , \frac {\text { Loss } _ {L} ^ {(i)} (\cdot)}{c _ {L} ^ {(i)}} \right\}, \tag {10}L o s s _ {j} ^ {(i)} \leq c _ {j} ^ {(i)} \leq c _ {j} ^ {(i - 1)} \leq \dots \leq c _ {j} ^ {(0)}.$$
