We propose the following data-driven mode recognition and control strategy. Before starting, let $t \geq 0$ denote the current time, and fix the matrix D in (11). The first step is to compute an SVD of D and form a basis $D _ { \mathrm { b a s i s } }$ using the first $T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } { + } T _ { \mathrm { f } } { + } n$ left singular vectors. Next compute an SVD of a matrix with M columns containing the most recent $T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + T _ { \mathrm { f } } .$ （24号 length trajectories, denoted $H _ { t } ,$ and form a basis, denoted $H _ { t , \mathrm { b a s i s } }$ , using the first $T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + T _ { \mathrm { f } } + n$ left singular vectors. Fix a threshold $\epsilon > 0$ . If $\mathbf { g a p } _ { T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + T _ { \mathrm { f } } } ( \operatorname { i m } H _ { t , \mathrm { b a s i s } }$ , im $D _ { \mathrm { b a s i s } } ) ~ > ~ \epsilon$ set $D = H _ { t }$ . This can be thought of as adopting the most recent data as the predictive model in (11) only when the gap between the predictive model D and the most recent data $H _ { t }$ is larger than some pre-defined threshold. Equipped with the data matrix $D ,$ solve (11) for the optimal predicted input trajectory $( u _ { 1 } ^ { \star } , \ldots , u _ { T _ { \mathrm { f } } } ^ { \star } )$ and apply $u _ { t } \ = \ u _ { 1 } ^ { \star }$ to the system. Measure $y _ { t }$ and set $( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } )$ in (11) to the most recent $T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } { \mathrm { - l e n g t h } }$ trajectory of the system. Update $H _ { t }$ by deleting the first column and adding the most recent $T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + T _ { \mathrm { f } ^ { - } } \mathrm { l e n g t h }$ trajectory as the last column. This process is repeated in order to perform simultaneous data-driven mode recognition and control.
