# §1. Introduction

Networked Control Systems (NCSs) are an integral part of modern day Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. While these applications typically involve a large number of plants, bandwidth of shared communication networks is often limited. The scenario in which the number of plants sharing a communication network is higher than the capacity of the network is called medium access constraint. This scenario motivates the need to allocate the communication network to each plant in a manner so that good qualitative and quantitative properties of the plants are preserved. This task of efficient allocation of a shared communication network is commonly referred to as a scheduling problem and the corresponding allocation scheme is called a scheduling logic. In this paper we study algorithmic design of scheduling logics for NCSs.

The existing classes of scheduling logics can be classified broadly into two categories: static and dynamic. In case of the former, a finite length allocation scheme of the network is determined offline and is applied eternally in a periodic manner, while in case of the latter, the allocation of the shared network is determined based on some information about the plant (e.g., states, outputs, access status of sensors and actuators, etc.), see [7] for a detailed discussion. In this paper we consider a shift in paradigm and present probabilistic scheduling logics for NCSs.

We study an NCS consisting of multiple discrete-time linear plants whose feedback loops are closed through a shared communication network. A block diagram of such an NCS is shown in Figure 1. We assume that the plants are unstable in open-loop and exponentially stable in closed-loop. Due to a limited communication capacity of the network, only a few plants can exchange information with their controllers at any instant of time. Consequently, the remaining plants operate in open-loop at every time instant. Our contributions are twofold:
