# §2. Problem statement

We consider an NCS with ?? plants whose dynamics are given by

$$x _ {i} (t + 1) = A _ {i} x _ {i} (t) + B _ {i} u _ {i} (t), x _ {i} (0) = x _ {i} ^ {0}, t \in \mathbb {N} _ {0}, \tag {1}$$

where $x _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { i } }$ and $u _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m _ { i } }$ are the vectors of states and inputs of the ??-th plant at time ??, respectively, $i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N$ . Each plant ?? employs a state-feedback controller $u _ { i } ( t ) = K _ { i } x _ { i } ( t )$ , $t \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ . The matrices $A _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { i } \times d _ { i } } , B _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { i } \times m _ { i } }$ and $K _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m _ { i } \times d _ { i } } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N$ are constants.

Assumption 1. The open-loop dynamics of each plant is unstable and each controller is stabilizing. More specifically, the matrices $A _ { i } + B _ { i } K _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , . . . , N$ are Schur stable and the matrices $A _ { i } ,$ , $i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N$ are unstable.1

The controllers are remotely located and each plant communicates with its controller through a shared communication network. The network has a limited communication capacity in the sense that at any time instant, only ?? plants $( 0 < M < N )$ can access the network. Consequently, the remaining $N - M$ plants operate in open loop.

Assumption 2. The communication network is ideal in the sense that exchange of information between plants and their controllers is not affected by communication uncertainties.

Let $i _ { s }$ and $i _ { u }$ denote the stable and unstable modes of the ??-th plant, respectively, $A _ { i _ { s } } = A _ { i } + B _ { i } K _ { i }$ and $A _ { i _ { u } } = A _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , . . . , N$ . We let

$$\mathcal {S} = \{s \in \{1, 2, \dots , N \} ^ {M} \mid \text { the elements of } s \text { are distinct } \}$$

be the set of all subsets of $\{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , N \}$ with cardinality ??. We call a function $\gamma : \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }  S .$ , that specifies, at every time ??, ?? plants of the NCS which access the shared network at that time, as a scheduling logic. Let $r _ { i } ^ { 0 }$ denote the initial mode of operation of plant $i , \mathrm { i . e . , } r _ { i } ^ { 0 } = i _ { s } , \mathrm { i f } i \in \gamma ( 0 )$ and $r _ { i } ^ { 0 } = i _ { u } , \mathrm { i f } i \notin \gamma ( 0 )$ . We will focus on stochastic stability of the plants.
