# 2. MAIN IDEA

When modeling systems, we often face the following situations. Either a simplistic physics-based model can be constructed with comparatively low effort or a complex model is developed with high effort but still lacks of sufficient accuracy. Using such models as a basis, the main idea of this work is to learn a mapping function in a data-driven manner, transforming low-quality physicsbased dynamics to high-quality dynamics. Therefore, we constitute a Physics-Guided Recurrent Neural Network as in Jia et al. (2020), using a set of ODEs as a physicsbased model and a recurrent neural network (RNN) as the data-driven mapping component. Note that Jia et al. (2020) only consider autonomous systems with a single objective function. By utilizing a simplistic physics-based model we are hoping for synergetic effects, e.g., lower data requirements and increased model accuracy. Furthermore, by enforcing physics-based constraints on the mapping function in a multi-objective optimization setting, physically plausible hybrid models are expected to be retrieved.

In the course of modeling time-variant, non-autonomous systems, we first take a look at the specification of feedforward and recurrent neural networks. Then, by combining a RNN and a physics-based model, we derive the PGRNN and augment it using physics-based constraints, yielding a Multi-Objective Physics-Guided Recurrent Neural Network.

Notationally, to differentiate variables describing a real system S and different model types, we denote variables associated with a physics-based model with a superscript $\tilde { \cdot } ,$ and (partially) data-driven models with ˆ· or swung letters.
