# 4.2. The case of switching topology

In practical application, due to the influence of formation change, fault, obstacle avoidance, and the other factors, the connection relationship between individuals in multi-agent systems maybe change. The concept of switching topologies is introduced to deal with this situation. For the case of switching topology, denote $\left\{ G _ { 1 } , G _ { 2 } , \ldots , G _ { t } \right\}$ as the set of switching topology. Function $\sigma ( x ) : R ^ { + }  \{ 1 , 2 , \dots , t \}$ is the switching signal which is used to determine the topological structure of the system at a certain time point. For convenience, we only consider the situation of fixed leaders during the switching process. Then the system can be written as

$$\dot {x} (t) = \tilde {L} _ {\sigma (x)} x (t) + \tilde {M} y (t) \tag {2}$$

where

$$
\tilde {L} _ {\sigma (x)} = \left(\left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} A & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & A & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & A \end{array} \right] - \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} B K & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & B K & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & B K \end{array} \right] L _ {\sigma (x)}\right), \tilde {M} = \left(M \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} C & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ 0 & C & \dots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & \dots & C \end{array} \right]\right).
$$

The switching sequence of the system (2) is

$$\pi = \left\{\left(i _ {1}, h _ {1}\right), \left(i _ {2}, h _ {2}\right), \ldots , \left(i _ {M}, h _ {M}\right) \right\}$$

where $i _ { m } \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , t \}$ , and $h _ { m } = t _ { m } - t _ { m - 1 } > 0$ represents the duration of the 𝑚-th topology. If for any initial state, there are one switch sequence and external inputs that take the states to zeros, then the system (2) is said to be controllable. The controllable state set is denoted as $C ( \pi )$ and the subspace sequence Xie and L.Wang (2003) is

$$\mathbb {W} _ {1} = \sum_ {\sigma (x) = 1} ^ {t} \left\langle \tilde {L} _ {\sigma (x)} \mid \tilde {M} \right\rangle , \quad \mathbb {W} _ {i + 1} = \sum_ {\sigma (x) = 1} ^ {t} \left\langle \tilde {L} _ {\sigma (x)} \mid \mathbb {W} _ {i} \right\rangle , \quad i = 1, 2, \ldots$$

we denote $\pi _ { i } = \left\{ V _ { 1 } , V _ { 2 } , \cdots , V _ { s } \right\}$ as an EP for matrix-weighted signed graph $G _ { i }$ and $\pi _ { m i n } = \left\{ V _ { 1 } , V _ { 2 } , \cdots , V _ { s } \right\}$ is the least upper bound for all $\pi _ { i }$ .
