# I. INTRODUCTION

Optimality and robustness are two main issues and missions in the feedback control theory [1]. The optimality requires an optimal or suboptimal controller to ensure that the closed-loop system satisfies certain predefined performance criteria, with the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) and the linear quadratic Gaussian $\mathrm { ( L Q G ) } / H _ { 2 }$ problems as typical examples. The robustness, on the other hand, characterizes the property that a system still works well in the presence of external disturbances and model uncertainties, which can be addressed in the framework of $H _ { \infty }$ control and $\mu$ synthesis. For multi-agent network systems, the optimality and robustness problems encounter new inherent challenges, since the control laws need to be distributed in the sense that only local information between neighboring agents can be utilized and meanwhile the control laws are subject to structural constraints imposed by the network topology [2].

In the last decades, many advances have been reported on the optimality and robustness issues of network systems. Distributed optimal and suboptimal LQR problems of multi-agent systems were addressed in [3], [4], [5], [6], [7]. The coherence and centrality of multi-agent networks were formulated and discussed in [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], through studying the $H _ { 2 }$ norms of the networks from the white noises to the performance variables. The $H _ { 2 }$ consensus problems of multi-agent systems were investigated in [14], [15],

This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under grants 619730065 and U1713223.   
Z. Li is with the State Key Laboratory for Turbulence and Complex Systems, Department of Mechanics and Engineering Science, College of Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China. E-mail: zhongkli@pku.edu.cn   
J. Jiao is with the Chair of Information-oriented Control, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Technical University of Munich, 80333, Munich, Germany. E-mail: junjie.jiao@tum.de   
X. Chen is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Windsor, Canada. E-mail: xchen@uwindsor.ca
