$$| \mathbf {U} (\phi (\theta)) | \geq | \mathbf {U} (\xi (\theta)) |, \quad \forall \phi \in C ([ - \Delta , 0 ], \partial \mathbb {C}), \tag {51}\mathbb {S} := \{\phi \in \mathcal {C} ([ - \Delta , 0 ], \mathbb {C}): \mathbf {U} (\phi) = 0 \} \subset \mathcal {C} ([ - \Delta , 0 ], \operatorname{Int} (\mathbb {C})), \tag {52}$$

then the stabilization and safety objectives can be achieved simultaneously via the controller (50) with

$$\mathbf {K} (\phi) := \operatorname{Ksgn} (\mathbf {U} (\phi)), \tag {53}$$

where $\mathrm { K } > 0$ is constant.

Proof. From (49), (50) and (53), we have

$$
\begin{array}{l} D ^ {+} \mathbf {W} (\phi) = \mathbf {U} (\phi) (\mathbf {H} (\phi) \mathbf {J} _ {3} (\phi) \mathbf {H} ^ {\top} (\phi) + \mathbf {L} (\phi) + \mathbf {G} (\phi) u) \\ = - \mathbf {U} (\phi) \mathrm{Ksgn} (\mathbf {U} (\phi)) \\ = - \mathrm{K} \sqrt {2 \mathbf {W} (\phi)}. \\ \end{array}
$$

From [24, Theorem 2.2], the functional $\mathbf { W } ( \phi )$ converges to the origin with the increase of time, which implies the satisfaction of the stabilization objective. In addition, we can see from (52) that the manifold invariant condition is included in the safe set, and from (51) that the evolution of $\mathbf { W } ( \phi )$ is in the safe set. Hence, the safety objective is guaranteed. 

Theorem 8 involves a standard method to design $\mathbf { K } ( \phi )$ in (50). Here, we emphasize that the choice of $\mathbf { K } ( \phi )$ is not unique. In particular, due to the function sgn in (53), the controller (50) is not continuous. To deal with this issue, we can replace the function sgn by a sigmoid function such that ${ \bf K } ( \phi ) : = { \bf \Phi }$ $\mathbf { K U } ( \phi ) / ( | | \mathbf { U } ( \phi ) | | + \varepsilon )$ with arbitrarily small $\varepsilon > 0$ is continuous; see also Section 1.2.1 in [30]. The condition (51) implies that $\mathbf { W } ( \phi )$ will not converge to the boundary of the safe set, and the condition (52) ensures the sliding surface to be included in the safe set. Hence, the safety objective is guaranteed via (51)-(52), which can be strengthened to

$$
\begin{array}{l} | \mathbf {U} (\phi (\theta)) | \geq | \mathbf {U} (\xi (\theta)) |, \quad \forall \phi \in C ([ - \Delta , 0 ], \partial \mathbb {C} _ {1}), \\ \mathbb {S} = \{\phi \in \mathcal {C} ([ - \Delta , 0 ], \mathbb {C}): \mathbf {U} (\phi) = 0 \} \subset \mathcal {C} ([ - \Delta , 0 ], \mathbb {C} _ {1}), \\ \end{array}
$$
