# 1. Introduction

Due to the very nature of nervous electrical signals, brain medicine and brain-inspired computing put an increasing demand on completely novel control design methodologies. Neurotechnology interfaces neural tissues with electronic devices via the exchange of electrical signals. While of the same physical nature, those signals are radically different in animals and in machines: neural signals are analogue and spiky, whereas the information processing of actuator and sensor signals is digital and quantised. Current control systems in neurotechnology use classical linear filtering techniques in combination with conventional analogue-to-digital converters from robotics and electronics [1]. They fail to acknowledge the excitable dynamics underlying the generation of spiky signals. Future developments will call for more compliance and more integration between the biological and technological domains. Such requirements will impose control interfaces that interconnect (or, in the behavioural language of Willems [2], share) signals of the same nature.

The significance of designing a controller that shares the input-output properties of the controlled physical system has a long and rich history in robotics. Passivity-based control is rooted in the concept of port interconnection, which wires the physical terminals of a passive plant and a passive controller both modelled as mechanical ports [3]. In robotics, impedance control is rooted in the design of a controller that shapes the mechanical impedance of the closed-loop system to comply with the environment, itself modelled in terms of a mechanical impedance [4].

The present paper adopts the same philosophy for the control of a neuronal system. We use the well-established framework of conductance-based modelling both for the controller and for the system to be controlled. We consider conductance-based neural networks in which each neural node is a one-port circuit composed of one leaky capacitor (the ’passive membrane’) in parallel with a bank of ohmic current sources of variable conductance. The controller is itself an additional set of ohmic current sources connected in parallel to those of the neuron. Each conductance is voltage-dependent, gating the current flow in a specific temporal and amplitude window.
