This paper explores the problem of uncertainty quantification in data-driven control of LTI systems. We seek a databased behavioral description of uncertainty. Building on the rich legacy of robust control theory [18 – 21], we identify the problem of uncertainty quantification with that of selecting a “natural” metric to study robustness questions. The starting point of our analysis is a seemingly elementary, yet profound consequence of the fundamental lemma: restricted behaviors may be regarded as subspaces of fixed dimension and represented directly by data matrices. Building on this premise, we identify restricted behaviors with points on the Grassmannian $\mathrm { G r } ( k , N )$ , i.e., the set of all subspaces of dimension k in $\mathbb { R } ^ { \dot { N } }$ , endowed with the structure of a (quotient) manifold. The L-gap metric is then introduced as a direct finite-time counterpart of the classical gap metric [18 – 21], which measures the distance between graphs of inputoutput operators and allows one to compare the closed-loop behavior of different systems subject to the same feedback controller.

Contributions: The contributions of the paper are fourfold: (i) we define a new (representation free) metric on the set of restricted behaviors; we show that the metric is easily computed via measured data and readily understood in terms of trajectories; (ii) we show the our metric can be used for uncertainty quantification for behaviors described by AR models; (iii) we connect the L-gap to the classical ℓ2-gap from robust control theory; and (iv) we demonstrate the benefits brought by the L-gap in a data-driven mode recognition and control case study.

Paper organization: The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II provides basic definitions regarding behavioral systems. Section III introduces a new metric between restricted behaviors, which is then used for uncertainty quantification purposes and shown to be closely connected to the classical $\ell _ { 2 } { \tt - g a p }$ . Section IV illustrates the theory with a numerical case study. Section V provides a summary of the main results and an outlook to future research directions.

Notation: The set of positive and non-negative integers are denoted by N and $\mathbb { Z } _ { + }$ , respectively. The set of positive integers $\{ 1 , \ldots , p \}$ is denoted by p for all $p \in \mathbb { N } .$ The set of real numbers is denoted by R. The transpose, image, and kernel of the matrix $M \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times m }$ are denoted by $M ^ { \mathsf { T } }$ , im M , and ker M , respectively. A map f from X to Y is denoted by $f : X \to Y ; ( Y ) ^ { X }$ denotes the set of all such maps. The t-shift is defined as $( \sigma ^ { t } f ) ( t ^ { \prime } ) = f ( t + t ^ { \prime } )$ for all $t , t ^ { \prime } \in \mathbb { Z } _ { + }$ .
