Different from Proposition 9, no constraints are imposed on the type of the CBF in Proposition 10. The sliding surface functional (57) is extensively applied in many existing works [8, 11], and (58) is not strict and can be achieved by the construction. To show this, we illustrate the choices of α and $\beta$ in (57). First, α( ) can be set as $_ \mathrm { ~  ~ }$ directly. Another common construction of α( ) is based on the hyperbolic function [44] and given as $\alpha ( \mathcal { V } ( \phi ) ) : = a \sqrt { \mathcal { V } ( \phi ) + b } - b$ , where $a , b > 0$ . Second, if B is an R-CBKF satisfying $\mathcal { B } ( \phi ) \geq \mathcal { B } ( \xi )$ for all $\phi ~ \in ~ { \cal C } ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \partial \mathbb { C } )$ , then β(B) can be set as B directly. For instance, $\mathcal { B } ( \phi ) ~ = ~ \ln ( 1 ~ + ~ c / h ( \phi ) )$ with $c \ > \ 0$ ensures that B(φ) → ∞ as $\phi ~  ~ C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \partial \mathbb { C } )$ . We can limit the effects of the CBF by the following construction: $\beta ( \mathcal { B } ( \phi ) ) = c \cdot \mathrm { p s g n } ( \beta _ { 1 } ( h ( \phi ) ) ) \beta _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } ( h ( \phi ) ) h ^ { - 2 } ( \phi )$ , where $c > 0$ and $\beta _ { 1 } : \mathbb { R } ^ { + } $ R is such that $\mathbb { S } _ { 1 } : = \left\{ \phi \in C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ) : \beta _ { 1 } ( h ( \phi ) ) = \right.$ $0 \} \subset C ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \operatorname { I n t } ( \mathbb { C } ) )$ . That is, the set $\mathbb { S } _ { 1 }$ is a contraction of the safe set. Only when the state trajectory moves into the set ${ C } ( [ - \Delta , 0 ] , \mathrm { I n t } ( \mathbb { C } ) ) \mid \mathbb { S } _ { 1 }$ does the CBF affects the controller design to guarantee the safety objective. In particular, $\beta _ { 1 } ( h ( \phi ) )$ can be set as h(φ)−ε simply with $\varepsilon > 0$ determining the distance between the sets S and $\mathbb { S } _ { 1 } ;$ see Section 6.2.

Remark 4. Since whether $_ \mathrm { ~  ~ }$ and  are the Razumikhin-type or Krasovskii-type is not specified in (44), the results derived in this section are applied to these two types. An advantage of these results lies in the potential combination between different types of CLFs and CBFs. That is, CLRF (or CLKF) and CBKF (or CBRF) can be merged to study the stabilization and safety objectives simultaneously; see Section 6.2. 
