# 6. Conclusion

This paper has investigated the classical framework of model-reference adaptive control to design neuromodulatory controllers in conductance-based neuronal models. A key message of the paper is that conductance-based models are linearly parameterised in maximal conductance parameters, and that the adaptive control of individual conductances provides flexible adaptation principles reminiscent of those observed in neurophysiology. The proposed methodology makes use of the adaptive observer recently proposed in [11]. It fundamentally relies on the physical input-output properties of conductance-based models, namely the relative degree one property between currents and voltages, and the contraction property of the internal (gating) dynamics. It is also decentralised, in the sense that the adaptive controller of each node in a network only estimates local states and parameters based on local measurements, that is, the nodal voltage and the voltage of presynaptic neurons.

We have presented adaptive controllers to solve the two key control problems of reference tracking and disturbance rejection. We have also provided a simple illustration of the role of nodal adaptive control in a conceptual network inspired by the stomatogastric ganglion.

The results of this paper are preliminary in that they assume full knowledge of the individual conductance models and perfect measurements of the voltage variables. The idealised results however suggest a strong potential for classical solutions of adaptive control to provide neuromodulation principles in biophysical or artificial conductance-based networks.
