With the proposed safety algorithm of this work, for a given safety-critical application and based on desired control objectives, the most suitable SMPC approach can be chosen. This choice may be made independently of required properties, which are later ensured by the proposed safety algorithm. The proposed method combines advantages of stochastic and robust predictive control. These advantages of the proposed safe SMPC algorithm are demonstrated in a simulation example, including comparisons to pure SMPC and pure RMPC.

This work is structured as follows. Section II introduces the problem. The safe SMPC framework and its properties are presented in Sections III and IV. A simulation example and conclusive remarks are given in Sections V and VI.

Notation: Regular letters indicate scalars, bold lowercase letters denote vectors, and bold uppercase letters are used for matrices, $\operatorname { e . g . } , a , a , A$ , respectively. The closed interval between integers a and b is denoted by $\mathbb { I } _ { a , b } .$ . Absolute values and norms are indicated by |a| and $| | a | |$ , respectively, where we consider the weighted norm $| | \pmb { a } | | _ { A } ^ { 2 } = \pmb { a } ^ { \top } A \pmb { a }$ . A function $\gamma$ is of class $\kappa \operatorname { i f } \gamma$ is positive definite and strictly increasing. A function α is of class $\kappa _ { \infty }$ if α is of class K and unbounded. Within an OCP, the state ${ \pmb x } _ { t + k | t }$ denotes the prediction for step $t + k$ obtained at time step t. We define the set addition $\mathcal { A } \oplus \mathcal { B } : = \{ \pmb { a } + \pmb { b } | \pmb { a } \in \mathcal { A } , \pmb { b } \in \mathcal { B } \}$ and set subtraction $\mathcal { A } \ominus \mathcal { B } : = \left\{ \pmb { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \mid \left\{ \pmb { x } \right\} \oplus \mathcal { B } \subseteq \mathcal { A } \right\}$ .
