# 4.2 Algorithm design and solvability analysis

In this subsection, we combine the reference generator (7) with a robust tracking controller towards the final distributed controller for multi-agent system (2).

Since each agent has positive linear dynamics, we consider distributed controllers of the following form:

$$u _ {i} = K _ {1 i} x _ {i} + K _ {2 i} w _ {i}\dot {w} _ {i} = A _ {0} w _ {i} + \mu \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (t) (w _ {j} - w _ {i}), \quad i \in \mathcal {N} \tag {10}$$

where $\mu$ is chosen as above and $K _ { 1 i } , K _ { i 2 }$ are matrices to be specified later.

Here is the main result of this paper.

Theorem 1 Suppose Assumptions 1–3 hold. The formulated robust positive consensus problem with a given pattern (3) and performance level $\gamma > 0$ is solved by a distributed controller of the form (10) if there exist diagonal matrices $Q _ { 1 } \ldots , Q _ { N } > \mathbf { 0 }$ and a scalar $\delta > 0$ such that the following inequalities hold:

$$A _ {i} Q _ {i} - B _ {i} B _ {i} ^ {\top} + \delta Q _ {i} > \mathbf {0} \tag {11}Q _ {i} A _ {i} ^ {\top} + A _ {i} Q _ {i} - 2 B _ {i} B _ {i} ^ {\top} + \frac {1}{\gamma^ {2}} D _ {i} D _ {i} ^ {\top} + Q _ {i} C _ {i} ^ {\top} C _ {i} Q _ {i} \prec \mathbf {0}$$

Proof. We attach the controller (10) to agent (2) and obtain the following composite system:

$$\dot {x} _ {i} = (A _ {i} + B _ {i} K _ {1 i}) x _ {i} + B _ {i} K _ {2 i} w _ {i} + D _ {i} d (t)\dot {w} _ {i} = A _ {0} w _ {i} + \mu \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (t) (w _ {j} - w _ {i}) \tag {12}y _ {i} = C _ {i} x _ {i}, \quad i \in \mathcal {N}$$

To ensure the solvability of our problem, we choose $K _ { 1 i } = - B _ { i } ^ { \top } Q _ { i } ^ { - 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 i } = U _ { i } - K _ { 1 i } X _ { i }$ with $Q _ { i } , U _ { i }$ and $X _ { i }$ defined as above. We are going to verify the three required properties in the formulation section.

We first show the closed-loop system is indeed positive. In fact, according to (11), the matrix ${ \bar { A } } _ { i } = A _ { i } +$ $B _ { i } K _ { 1 i }$ is Metzler by definition. Meanwhile, the matrices − $K _ { 1 i }$ and $K _ { 2 i }$ can be found to be nonnegative.

Hence, by Lemma 1, the xi-subsystem is positive with $w _ { i }$ and $d ( t )$ as its input. Since $w _ { i } ( t ) > \mathbf { 0 }$ by Lemma 2, we have that from any $x _ { i } ( 0 ) > \mathbf { 0 } , x _ { i } ( t ) > \mathbf { 0 }$ holds for any $t \geq 0$ .
