# B. Cost functional and conversion to discrete time

Consider the cost functional

$$\int_ {0} ^ {\infty} \left\langle Q ^ {\prime} x (t), x (t) \right\rangle + \left\langle R ^ {\prime} u (t), u (t) \right\rangle + \left\langle V ^ {\prime} \dot {u} (t), \dot {u} (t) \right\rangle d t, \tag {24}$$

with weights $Q ^ { \prime } , R ^ { \prime } , V ^ { \prime } \ge 0$ and with constraints $\begin{array} { r } { \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } x _ { 1 } ( t ) d t \leq } \end{array}$ $\overline { { x } } _ { 1 } , \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 } x _ { 4 } ( t ) d t \geq \underline { { x } } _ { 4 }$ , and $u \leq u _ { 1 , 2 } ( t ) \leq \overline { { u } }$ for all $t \geq 0$ , where the bounds $\overline { { x } } _ { 1 } , \underline { { x } } _ { 4 } , \underline { { u } } , \overline { { u } }$ will be specified in $\ S \mathrm { V - C } .$ . Next, we will convert the continuous-time problem (24) into discrete-time and formulate the MPC procedure to find a control signal that approximately minimizes (24).

The system (22)–(23) is transformed to discrete time using the Cayley transform [30, (1.5)]. For the boundary control system (22)–(23), the Cayley transform can be computed explicitly based on the Laplace transform of (22) and [31, Rem. 10.1.5] similar to [24, Sect. 4.1]. However, the closed-form expressions of the discrete-time operators would be lengthy, so for practical computations and computational efficacy, we prefer computing the discrete-time operators based on finitedimensional approximations of (22)–(23). We will specify the employed approximation methods in $\ S V  – C$ .

Converting the cost function (24) into discrete time, the coefficients $Q ^ { \prime } , R ^ { \prime } , V ^ { \prime }$ should be scaled by the time discretization interval h to account for the temporal integration (and to make the cost function independent of h). However, we need to take into account that $\overset { \mathrm { ~ - ~ } } { u _ { k } } / \sqrt { h }$ approximates $u ( t )$ in the Cayley transform. Thus, the the discrete-time cost function on some finite horizon $[ 0 , N - 1 ]$ is given by

$$\sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N - 1} \left(\langle Q x _ {k}, x _ {k} \rangle + \langle R u _ {k}, u _ {k} \rangle \right. \tag {25}\left. + \left\langle V (u _ {k} - u _ {k - 1}), u _ {k} - u _ {k - 1} \right\rangle\right),$$
