Later, a much lighter explicit MPC technique appeared in [9], the so called region-free approach; see also [8, §2.2] and the references therein. The region-free approach avoids state exploration and storage of the full piecewise affine controller, hence eliminating the off-line phase altogether. Instead, in the on-line phase, it calculates the optimal control step on the fly, using the set of constraints active at the optimal control step associated to the present plant state. Such methods are referred to as active set methods, and prime examples are the dual active set method by Goldfarb and Idnani [10] and its refined version QPKWIK [11]. Recent work of M ¨onnigmann and coauthors [12], [13], [14] investigates the dynamics of the optimal active set and the explicit MPC controller, as functions of the horizon length.

While explicit MPC is introduced here as being new for infinite-dimensional systems, generic MPC theory for infinitedimensional discrete-time (mainly nonlinear) plants has been developed, e.g., by Gr ¨une and coauthors; see [15]. In his PhD thesis [16], Altm ¨uller demonstrates that some of the central ideas in [15] are effective also for hyperbolic PDEs. In this technical note, we concentrate on how to compute the MPC control explicitly and efficiently, for affinely constrained linear systems with quadratic cost, rather than on fundamental properties of MPC itself, such as stabilization or feasibility.

We contribute a simple, fast, light and clean setup for explicit MPC of distributed parameter systems, which avoids all degeneracy issues that clutter the present literature. The proposed methodology is applied to a Timoshenko beam model with input and state constraints, where we show how one can control the continuous-time plant with the discretely generated control signal. While we focus on infinite-dimensional systems, we point out that the paper provides a powerful implementation for the finite-dimensional literature as well. A preliminary version of the proposed approach was presented without proofs in [17].
