In general, a significant drawback of ALQ-RL schemes is that the quality of the plant state transients is often unacceptable in the course of the iterative discrete adjustment of the control law parameters.
A more detailed review of ALQ-RL methods can be found in29.

ALQ-STR.
Approaches from this group are directly based on the methods of identification theory and adaptive control 1–5 and assume either a direct continuous adjustment of the optimal controller or require identification of the plant model parameters and the elements of the Riccati equation solution.
The main problem of ALQ synthesis using STR methods is the necessity to obtain: (1) the regression equation (RE) with respect to the measurable signals and the unknown control law parameters and/or ARE solution, (2) the adaptive law, which guarantees the system stability.
In 3 it is proposed to identify the parameters of the plant model and, using such estimates and the certainty equivalence principle, to solve the ARE continuously.
The disadvantage of this approach is the complexity of the analytical solution of the ARE at each time instant, as well as that the convergence of the LQ-controller parameters adjustment process is ensured only when the restrictive PE condition is satisfied.
In order to obtain a simpler solution, which could be implemented on low-cost embedded hardware, several methods are proposed in30–32 to reduce the ARE to a measurable RE, in which the unknown parameters are the ARE solution and/or the matrix of the optimal controller coefficients.
The RE obtained by such parameterization allows one to apply both classical 1 and modern34 algorithms to identify its parameters directly.
In 30,31, concurrent-learning-based estimation laws 34 are introduced on the basis of the obtained RE, which guarantee exponential convergence of the identified parameters to a bounded set of their true values if the regressor initial excitation condition (IE) is met.
In 32, a gradient descent method is used to derive a law that ensures a local exponential convergence of the unknown parameters estimates to zero when the PE condition is satisfied.
However, firstly, the obtained regressions 30–32 are substantially overparameterized, which causes well-known drawbacks 1,4, and secondly, the authors do not provide a strict formal discussion on the conditions under which the regressor of the obtained RE satisfies the IE or PE requirements (in fact, the assumption that these conditions are satisfied is not sufficiently justified in these studies).
