ALQ-RL.
Approaches from this group exploit the policy iteration (PI) methodology consisting of the policy evolution (critic update) step, in which the value of the cost function is calculated using the controller current parameters, and the policy improvement (actor update) step, in which the controller parameters are adjusted towards the direction of the cost function decrease 15.
This methodology has become applicable to the ALQ control systems synthesis on the ground of the disseminating study of Kleinman12, in which a computationally effective fast convergent discrete algorithm of online solution of the Riccati equation for plants with completely known dynamics is proposed.
Later, based on the Kleinman algorithm and PI, the ALQ controllers for plants with partially16 and completely17 unknown dynamics were proposed.
The disadvantages of these solutions are that: (1) their stability analysis is rather complex 33 as the algorithm to adjust the control law parameters is discrete, while the plant is continuous, (2) some initial stabilizing controller is required to be known, (3) the ARE solution and controller parameters estimates converge to their true values only if the regressor persistent excitation (PE) condition is met.
To overcome the first and second drawbacks, continuous time PI-based schemes are proposed, which do not require an initial stabilizing policy18–20, but the PE condition is still a must for convergence.
In21–24, various approaches to relax the PE requirement, which are based on the integral sliding-window filtering and methods of intelligent data storage on the input-output characteristics of the plant, are proposed for the PI framework.
The computational complexity of some of the above-mentioned solutions turns out to be rather high, especially when they are applied to control large scale systems.
Other approaches 25–28, which, according to their authors statements, have less computational complexity, require an initial stabilizing policy and could be reduced to the discrete Kleinman algorithm.
However, in 25–28, in contrast to 21–24, the stability of the closed-loop system for the whole set of switching states is proved on the basis of the switching systems stability theory 33.
