Therefore, it follows from Theorem that the proposed adaptive law (32) allows one to meet the objective (13). It ensures the convergence of the augmented tracking error $\xi ( t )$ to a set with the bound $\varepsilon _ { \xi } .$ , which can be reduced by the improvement of the Taylor polynomial degree. As, in practice, the maximum value of such degree $p \left( 2 6 \right)$ depends only on the computational power of the hardware-in-use, then it can be assumed that the value $\varepsilon _ { \xi }$ can be reduced to the machine precision.

The method proposed in this study differs from the known approaches to the synthesis of the ALQ control laws in the following way.

C1 The regression equation without overparametrization (16) is obtained, which relates the measurable signals $\Delta \left( t \right) , y _ { \theta } \left( t \right)$ to the unknown matrix ?? of the optimal control law parameters.   
C2 The regressor of the parametrization (16) is finitely exciting $\Delta \left( t \right) \in \mathrm { F E }$ when a relatively weak Assumption 1 is met. Moreover, in accordance with Proposition 4, if Assumption 1 holds, then the fact that $\Delta \left( t \right) \in \mathrm { F E }$ follows analytically and directly from $\Psi \left( t \right) \in \mathrm { F E }$ .   
C3 When $\Psi ( t ) \in \mathrm { F E }$ , the adaptive law (32) ensures the convergence of the identification error $\tilde { \theta } \left( t \right)$ into a set, which bound depends only on the computational power of the hardware-in-use.   
C4 Global exponential stability of the closed loop, which includes the plant and the developed adaptive self-tuning regulator, is guaranteed.
