The main result of the study, which allows us to obtain C1-C4, is based on the direct self-tuning regulators concept 3 and the method of the exponentially stable adaptive control design35. According to them, in order to synthesize a state feedback adaptive control system, a RE with a scalar regressor with respect to the unknown ideal parameters of the control law is parameterized. The key aspect in this case is to transfer the excitation of the initial vector of measurable signals (the plant states, control action, reference etc.) to the scalar regressor of the resulting RE. Then an adaptive law is derived, which guarantees global exponential stability of the closed-loop control system. In contrast to classical adaptive control, this approach does not need a measurable reference model, but it requires analytical equations to calculate the ideal parameters of the control law. The concept of STRbased adaptive control with guarantee of global exponential stability under FE condition has been used for the first time by the authors to solve classical problems of the state and output feedback adaptive control for $\mathrm { S I S O } ^ { 3 5 }$ and $\mathbf { M I M O } ^ { 3 6 }$ systems. It was later applied to derive an adaptive pole-placement control system for SISO plants 37. In this study, the above-mentioned concept is applied to develop an adaptive suboptimal control system under FE condition, and, like in all previous above-mentioned cases, the major challenge of such extension is to propose parametrization to derive RE mentioned in C1.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. A rigorous problem statement is presented in Section II. The main result is reported in Section III, and Section IV validates the proposed approach in numerical simulations.
