# I. INTRODUCTION

In this paper, we deal with the robust planning of trajectories for linear and nonlinear dynamical systems. Trajectory planning or feed-forward control is a research field probably at least as old as control engineering itself. It is thus surprising how rarely robustness of trajectory generation has been considered in the literature. We address this problem by combining Differential Dynamic Programming (DDP) methods with robust control.

DDP has been developed in the 1960s [7] as an approximate Dynamic Programming tool that bridges the gap between Dynamic Programming and local optimization methods for trajectory planning. Since the development of DDP, different extensions of these algorithms have emerged. This includes stochastic DDP [18], [11], [10] for stochastic optimal control problems, DDP methods for constrained optimization problems [12] and newer extensions such as sampled Differential Dynamic Programming [13]. In this article, we treat uncertainties in the Dynamic Program in a worst-case fashion, i.e., we maximize over the uncertainties to provide a robust version of DDP. This results in a minimax optimization problem in the Dynamic Program just like in minimax Differential Dynamic Programming [17]. Unlike minimax DDP, we make use of convex relaxation techniques from robust control such that our approach applies to (nonlinear) generalized plants with parametric or dynamic

This work was supported by Sener Aerospacial under a program of, and funded by, the European Space Agency.

Dennis Gramlich and Christian Ebenbauer are with the Chair of Intelligent Control Systems, RWTH-Aachen, D-52074 Aachen, Germany {dennis.gramlich,christian.ebenbauer} @ic.rwth-aachen.de

Carsten W. Scherer is with the Chair of Mathematical Systems Theory, University of Stuttgart, 70174 Stuttgart, Germany carsten.scherer@mathematik.uni-stuttgart.de

Funded by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germany’s Excellence Strategy - EXC 2075 – 390740016. We acknowledge the support by the Stuttgart Center for Simulation Science (SimTech).
