# 2 Preliminary

In this section, we introduce some preliminaries on our notations and positive systems.

Let $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be the n-dimensional real space. Denote by $\mathbb { R } ^ { \times m }$ the set of all n×m matrices with entries in R. Let $\mathbb { I } _ { n }$ be the n-dimensional identity matrix. 1 (or 0) denotes an all-one (or all-zero) matrix or vector with proper dimensions. co $\left( a _ { 1 } , . . . , a _ { n } \right) = \left[ a _ { 1 } ^ { \top } , . . . , a _ { n } ^ { \top } \right] ^ { \top }$ for column vectors $a _ { i } ( i = 1 , . . . , n )$ with compatible dimensions. Let $\mathrm { d i a g } ( b _ { 1 } , . . . , b _ { n } )$ represent an $n \times n$ diagonal matrix with diagonal elements $b _ { 1 } , \ldots , b _ { n }$ . For matrices $B _ { 1 } , \ldots , B _ { n }$ , blkdiag $( B _ { 1 } , . . . , B _ { n } )$ represents the block diagonal matrix with diagonal blocks $B _ { 1 } , \ldots , B _ { n }$ . For a vector x (or matrix $A ) \ , \ \| x \| \ ( \mathrm { o r } \ \| A \| )$ denotes its Euclidean (or spectral) norm.

Let Rn be the nonnegative orthant. Denote the set of all $m \times n$ matrices with each entry in $\mathbb { R } _ { + }$ by $\mathbb { R } _ { + } ^ { m \times n }$ . We say such matrices are nonnegative and adopt the notation $A \geq \mathbf { 0 }$ . If, in addition, A has at least one positive entry, we say A is positive $\mathbf { \nabla } ( A > \mathbf { 0 } )$ . If all the entries are positive, we say A is strictly positive $( A \gg \mathbf { 0 } ) . \ A < \mathbf { 0 } \ ( \mathrm { o r } \leq \mathbf { 0 } ) \ \mathrm { i f } \ - A > \mathbf { 0 } \ ( \geq \mathbf { 0 } )$ . The nonnegativity, positivity, and strict positivity of vectors can be defined likewise. For a square matrix $A , A \in \mathbb { H }$ means A is Hurwitz, i.e., its eigenvalues have negative real parts. A is Metzler if the off-diagonal entries are nonnegative, which is equivalent to $A \in \mathbb { M } . \ P \succ ( \prec )$ 0 means P is a positive (negative) definite matrix, i.e. $x ^ { \top } P x > ( < ) 0$ for every $x \neq \mathbf { 0 }$ .

Consider the following (time-varying) linear system:

$$y (t) = C (t) x (t), \quad \dot {x} (t) = A (t) x (t) + B (t) u (t) \tag {1}$$
