# 4.1 Two-step design scheme

To hurdle the corresponding difficulties from agent dynamics and positive constraints, we present a twostep design to solve our problem. The basic layered structure is shown in Fig. 1. We will first construct an auxiliary multi-agent system as local reference generators for each agent to meet the consensus pattern. After that, we will focus on the resultant tracking problem for the original agents. In this way, the full controller for each agent consists of a reference generator and an effective tracking controller.

According to our two-step scheme, we first present the following auxiliary multi-agent system with the same system matrix in pattern dynamics (3):

$$\dot {w} _ {i} = A _ {0} w _ {i} + \mathbb {I} _ {n _ {0}} v _ {i} \tag {6}$$

where $w _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { 0 } }$ is the virtual state and $v _ { i }$ the virtual input. Consider the typical distributed controller for agent (6) as $\begin{array} { r } { v _ { i } = \mu \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { N } a _ { i j } ( t ) ( w _ { j } - w _ { i } ) } \end{array}$ . The resultant reference generator is thus given as

$$\dot {w} _ {i} = A _ {0} w _ {i} + \mu \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (t) (w _ {j} - w _ {i}), \quad i \in \mathcal {N} \tag {7}$$

$\begin{array} { r } { w _ { \mathrm { a v } } ( t ) = \frac { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } w _ { i } ( t ) } { N } , \tilde { w } _ { i } ( t ) = w _ { i } ( t ) - w _ { \mathrm { a v } } ( t ) } \end{array}$ , and $\tilde { w } = \mathrm { c o l } ( \tilde { w } _ { 1 } , . . . , \tilde { w } _ { N } )$ . It can be verified that

$$\dot {w} _ {\mathrm{av}} = A _ {0} w _ {\mathrm{av}} \tag {8}$$

with an initial point $\begin{array} { r } { w _ { \mathbf { a } v } ( 0 ) = \frac { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } w _ { i } ( 0 ) } { N } } \end{array}$ . That is, the trajectory $w _ { \mathrm { a } v } ( t )$ is an admissible solution to the expected pattern dynamics (3).

Since there are a finite number of graphs fulfilling Assumption 2, $\underline { { \lambda } } \triangleq \operatorname* { m i n } _ { p \in \mathcal { P } } \{ \lambda _ { 2 } ( L _ { p } ) \}$ is well-defined and strictly greater than 0. Here is a key lemma on the performance of virtual positive multi-agent system (7).

Lemma 2 Suppose Assumptions 1–2 holds. Let $\begin{array} { r } { \mu \geq \frac { \| A _ { 0 } \| } { \underline { { \lambda } } } + 1 } \end{array}$ . Then, along the trajectory of system (7), it holds that $w _ { i } ( t ) \geq \mathbf { 0 }$ and $\lVert \tilde { w } _ { i } ( t ) \rVert \leq \lVert \tilde { w } ( 0 ) \rVert e ^ { - \underline { { \lambda } } t }$ for any initial condition $w _ { i } ( 0 ) \geq \mathbf { 0 }$ .
