Proof. First note that all Hilbert spaces are locally convex. The implication from 2) to 1) is then contained in statement (4) in [26, Cor. 47.14], after a change of signs on the constraints, whereas the converse implication follows from statements (1) and (3) in [26, Thm 47.E], assuming the Slater condition.

In case the optimization is carried out over a finitedimensional space and the constraints are affine, it is well known that the Slater condition is not needed. It turns out that this is the case in infinite dimensions too, as long as the number of constraints is finite; this will be established as item 2) in Thm 5 below.

For simplicity we introduce the notation $\mathbf { P } : = \{ 1 , 2 , \hdots , \widetilde { p } \}$ . A vector $\bar { \lambda } = \bar { ( } \lambda _ { k } ) _ { k = 1 } ^ { \widetilde { p } }$ e with the properties in Lemma 4.2) is referred to as a Lagrange multiplier associated to $z _ { * }$ . Note that we do not claim that associated Lagrange multipliers are uniquely determined by $z _ { * }$ . The property $\lambda _ { k } f _ { k } ( z _ { * } ) = 0$ for all k is referred to as complementarity. The set of constraints which are active at the optimizer $z _ { * }$ , i.e.,

$$\mathbf {A} := \left\{k \in \mathbf {P} \mid f _ {k} (z _ {*}) = 0 \right\},$$

is referred to as the optimal active set, and its complement is $\mathbf { A } ^ { c } : = \mathbf { P } \setminus \mathbf { A }$ . Denote

$$
\mathcal {I} _ {k} := \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c c c} 0 & \ldots & 0 & 1 & 0 & \ldots & 0 \end{array} \right] \in \mathbb {R} ^ {\widetilde {p}},
$$

with the one in position $k \in \mathbf { P } .$ . For any index set A and operator G mapping into Rpe, we use $\# \mathbf { A }$ to denote the number of elements in A, and $G ^ { \mathbf { A } }$ means G projected onto the components in $\mathbb { R } ^ { \widetilde { p } }$ which are indexed in A, so that $G ^ { \mathbf { A } } = \Gamma G$ , where $\Gamma = ( \mathcal { T } _ { k } ) _ { k \in \mathbf { A } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( \# \mathbf { A } ) \times \widetilde { p } } ,$ , with k in increasing order.
