Meanwhile, integrators are typical positive systems. Thus, the classical integrator-type multi-agent systems are naturally interconnected positive multi-agent systems. Although the positive constraint is not required in designing rules for single-integrator multi-agent systems, the fundamental consensus dynamics are indeed positive. In [17], such a positive constraint was explicitly discussed in the consensus problem for some positive linear multi-agent systems. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the consensusability of all agents were derived under the positive constraint. Note that the positive consensus in this work was achieved via solving a positive static output feedback stabilization problem for the whole multi-agent system. Further efforts along this technical line have been made in [18–20] using state feedback. Moreover, some authors considered dynamic rules to relax the required conditions, e.g., [21–23]. However, all these positive consensus results are only derived for homogeneous multi-agent systems where all agents share the identical dynamics. Noticing the various kinds of conventional consensus results for different classes of multi-agent systems, it is natural for us to ask whether and how the positive consensus problem can be solved for heterogeneous multi-agent systems.

On the other hand, the agents’ dynamics may not be perfectly known due to various uncertainties from either inaccurate modeling or environmental disturbances. Note that the controllers designed for nominal dynamics might fail to ensure the same performance for physical plants and probably cause some instability issues. Thus, it is crucial to take the robustness of controllers into account when solving the multi-agent coordination problems. Although many interesting results have been delivered for single positive systems in the literature, e.g., [24–26], it is not clear how to extend these results to positive multi-agent systems for a robust consensus.
