uncertainties and not just disturbances as in existing minimax DDP. This approach allows us to carry over the multiplier relaxation techniques from robust control to DDP. Indeed, an alternative perspective on our work is the development of robust control theory for time varying finite horizon control problems, as it is suggested in [2] for linear dynamical systems. Such finite horizon perspectives enable the design of robust time varying feedback controllers for nonlinear systems linearized around a reference trajectory, which is already of high value by itself in our opinion. Compared to [2], we emphasize that our algorithm simultaneously optimizes a feedback term and the reference trajectory in a robust control fashion.

Most of the works dealing with robustness in trajectory generation have been conducted in Model Predictive Control (MPC). Despite being mostly concerned with fixed point stabilization, MPC can be viewed as control by sequential trajectory generation. Inherent robustness properties of MPC have been studied in [4], [16], but for the general nonlinear case, non-robustness of nominal MPC has been reported e.g. in [5]. Resulting from these investigations, robust tube-based MPC has been developed to address bounded disturbances [9]. Further, robust control of nonlinear systems is studied in the tubebased MPC setting [8]. Still, the fusion of MPC with classical multiplier relaxations from robust control remains an open issue. First steps into this direction (see [15]) are still limited to fixed multipliers and linear systems. An alternative to tube-based MPC to be mentioned is minimax MPC [3], where similar to our ideas, convex relaxations in the form of linear matrix inequalities are used to handle robust minimax optimization problems.

A major issue with approaches such as minimax MPC is computational complexity. Since convex optimization allows for more efficient solutions, it is therefore typically desirable to convexify trajectory optimization and robust controller synthesis problems (compare [1], [6]). For this purpose, we leverage the S-procedure and dualization techniques from robust control to formulate our DDP iterations as LMI optimization problems.

Summarizing, we makes the following contributions.

• We combine DDP with robust control to address trajectory planning problems for systems in generalized plant form with parametric or dynamic uncertainties.   
• We relax the maximization over the uncertainties, such that the solution approach is completely convex for linear systems and a sequential convex programming approach for nonlinear systems.

• We optimize over affine linear feedback policies, i.e., we simultaneously optimize (robustly) over a trajectory and a linear feedback around this trajectory.
