Moreover, in 31, the excitation of the regressor, in principle, exists due to the fact that the quadratic term of ARE is considered as a disturbance (see (12)), while in 30 it is provided as the plant parameters estimates are continuously substituted into the RE (see (25)).
All these facts demonstrate the artificial nature of the regressor excitation due to the perturbations, which are introduced into RE, at the expense of the obtained estimation accuracy.
Therefore, despite the satisfactory results of the numerical experiments presented $\mathrm { i n } ^ { 3 0 - 3 2 }$ , the feasibility of the discussed algorithms from the point of view of the regressor excitation, as well as the general capability to adjust their accuracy are open questions.
$\mathrm { I n } ^ { 3 1 }$ , Remark 2, it is noted that the artificial excitation of the regressor can be obtained by addition of noise or test signals to the control action.
This will certainly allow one to meet the IE or PE requirements almost everywhere, but in practice such operation is often infeasible and even dangerous.

The present study relates to the ALQ-STR group, and, compared to the considered solutions 3,30–32, its main contributions can be formulated as follows.

C1 A regression equation without overparameterization is obtained, which constitutes of the signals measured from the plant and the unknown matrix of the optimal control law parameters. Such equation allows one to identify controller parameters directly without consecutive substitutions of intermediate signals estimates from one RE to another.   
C2 The finite excitation (FE) of the initial regressor (the vector of signals, which are measured from the plant) guarantees that the regressor of the parameterization C1 is also FE.   
C3 The adaptive law is proposed, which, if the FE condition is satisfied for the initial regressor in C2, ensures monotonic convergence of the elements of the optimal control law matrix to a set of their true values, which bound is defined only by the computational power of the hardware-in-use.   
C4 The global exponential stability of the plant with the developed adaptive self-tuning regulator C3 is ensured.

The above contributions constitute the novelty of the proposed approach and fully overcome the shortcomings of the known solutions, which are noted in the review and relate to both ALQ-RL and ALQ-STR.
