Based on the aforementioned observations, we will focus on a group of heterogeneous positive linear multi-agent systems where the agent dynamics are allowed to be different from each other in both system matrices and the dimension of state spaces. Moreover, we assume the agents are subject to external inputs in the dynamics. We aim at distributed rules for these positive agents to reach an output consensus corresponding to some predefined pattern with their state variables being positive. Since the agents’ dynamics are high-order and subject to external inputs, we expect that an exact output consensus can be asymptotically ensured for the nominal multi-agent systems while such performance is robust with respect to these external inputs. Note that we have to achieve the expected robust consensus goal and ensure the positive constraints for each agent simultaneously. Hence the considered robust positive consensus problem for these heterogeneous positive agents has some exclusive challenges in contrast to existing (robust) consensus results for standard linear multi-agent systems or positive consensus for homogeneous multi-agent systems.

To overcome the difficulties brought by the positive constraint and heterogeneous uncertain agent dynamics, we constructively present a two-step procedure. First, we construct an auxiliary multi-agent system as a positive local reference generator for each agent. Then, we design an effective robust tracking controller and bring the two parts together with rigor solvability analysis to solve the robust positive consensus problem. The contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows:

• A robust positive consensus problem is formulated for a group of high-order positive multi-agent systems subject to external inputs. Our problem is an extended version of existing positive consensus results with exactly known agent dynamics [18, 20, 23].   
• Compared with existing positive consensus results for homogeneous multi-agent systems, both state and output feedback controllers are provided to remove the identical agent dynamics requirement and allow the consensus trajectory to meet some prespecified pattern including the finite constant as special cases.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. We first introduce some preliminaries on our notations and positive system in Section 2. Then we present the formulated robust positive consensus problem in Section 3. The main results are given in Section 4. We also provide a simulation example to illustrate the effectiveness of our algorithms in Section 5 along with conclusions in Section 6.
