# 1 INTRODUCTION

The model reference adaptive control (MRAC) is an effective framework to solve a great number of applied control problems with parameter uncertainty1–5. However, the main assumption of the classical MRAC paradigm is that the Erzberger conditions 6, i.e. the matching conditions between the reference and plant models, are satisfied. But in the many practical scenarios such requirement is not always met 5. This fact narrows the applicability domain of the conventional MRAC approaches. Moreover, both classical and modern methods of the adaptive control provide stability of the reference model tracking error, but generally do not guarantee the required time-domain or integral performance indexes 2.

On the other hand, the methods of optimal control theory 7,8: (1) do not require to satisfy strict matching conditions, (2) allow one to synthesize the optimal control law with respect to the chosen cost function, (3) provide certain guarantees on the control quality in the robust sense. The classical solution of the optimal control problem is a state feedback controller minimizing the linear-quadratic cost function, which depends on the states and control signals, over the infinite time interval 7,8. Considering the linear systems, the parameters of such a controller are calculated via solution of the well-known matrix algebraic Riccati equation (ARE). The solution of ARE requires a priori knowledge of the plant parameters, and it is usually found using offline analytical methods 8–11 or numerical procedures 8,12,13.

Considering the above-mentioned advantages of the optimal control theory methods, their application to the plants with parameter uncertainty14 to overcome the drawbacks of the conventional MRAC is an extremely actual problem. This is confirmed by a significant number of studies 15–32 aimed at the synthesis of an adaptive linear-quadratic (ALQ) regulators via solution of ARE when the plants parameters are unknown.

In general, known mathematically sound methods of ALQ synthesis can be divided into two broad groups:

1) ALQ based reinforcement learning (RL);   
2) ALQ based self-tuning regulators (STR).

Without pretending to provide an exhaustive review, the main studies, which belong to the mentioned groups, are considered below.
