A large amount of work has been done to develop an effective formation control protocol for a team of AUVs. The coordination strategies can typically be classified as behaviorbased approach, virtual structure, leader-follower structure, and artificial potential approaches. In behavioral approaches [8], [11], decentralized control implementations are used to design local controllers for each individual, where the control law is of the weighted form to meet various control objectives, such as formation keeping, goal seeking, path following, etc. Because of the separative feature of such approaches, it provides a more flexible and natural way to synthesize controllers to satisfy the collective behaviors. Nonetheless, the main drawback relies on the fact that quite often it is hard to formulate the problem and provide the theoretical guarantees. In virtual structure [12], [13], the desired formation shape is viewed as a single rigid body, and the reference points are derived for individuals according to the overall formation, by which the coordination problem could be cast into a series of trajectory tracking problems for each vehicle. Although this facilitates the design of formation controllers, the cooperative performance is greatly sacrificed as a whole. To improve cooperation among vehicles, the leader-follower structure is proposed, where one or several vehicle is selected as the leader which is able to access the desired formation and reference trajectory, and the rest of the vehicles are treated as the followers with the sole objective to maintain the desired posture (position and orientation) to the leader [14], [15]. Due to its simplicity as well as the scalability to a larger group, such a structure has been extensively employed in multi-robot system’s formation control. Another class of widely used approach in multiple vehicle cooperation is referred to as the artificial potential field, first developed to address the problems of goal seeking as well as collision avoiding, and then adapted to the formation control by designing proper potential functions for individuals which may produce the corresponding potential fields enforcing the vehicles to maintain a relative pose with their neighbors [16], [17]. Nevertheless, the biggest issue of such approach is that it has chance to enter into the local minimum, which may render the entire system malfunction.
