where $x _ { i }$ represents the neural activity of i-th neuron, associated with some nonnegative constant parameters $a _ { i } , b _ { i }$ and $d _ { i }$ indicating the rate of response, the maximum and minimum values of the neuron activities, respectively. Signals $s _ { i } ^ { + }$ and $s _ { i } ^ { - }$ represent the effects of environmental changes, i.e., the corresponding excitatory and inhibitory inputs to the neuron, respectively.

Remark 2. It is interesting to note that the presented shunting equation describes a dynamic characteristic of a neuron, and thus a more consistent behavior of the neural activities can be obtained, while the environmental changes may exhibit a highly evident discontinuity or non-smoothness. In particular, the transient stage can be adjustable by the parameter $a _ { i } ,$ and furthermore, due to the nonlinearity nature of the shunting model larger environmental changes may result in a faster transient process. Besides of that, the outputs of the shunting model, i.e., the neural activities, are able to be bounded upper by the parameter $b _ { i }$ and lower by the parameter $d _ { i } .$ . It will be shown, in what follows, that such properties of the shunting model can be applied to significantly improve the performance of the conventional SMC scheme.

In order to apply the shutting model to formation control design, let

$$
s _ {i} ^ {+} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} s _ {i}, & \text { if } s _ {i} \geq 0, \\ 0, & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {23}

s _ {i} ^ {-} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} - s _ {i}, & \text { if } s _ {i} <   0, \\ 0, & \text { otherwise }. \end{array} \right.
$$

Define $s ^ { + } = \left\lceil s _ { 1 } ^ { + } , \dots s _ { N } ^ { + } \right\rceil ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ and $\boldsymbol { x } _ { s } = \left[ x _ { 1 } , \ldots x _ { N } \right] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ , and the shunting model-based SMC control law can be proposed as follows

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tau = \left[ \bar {J} (\eta) \bar {B} \right] ^ {- 1} \left[ - \bar {A} (v, \eta) v + \tau^ {\prime} \right], \\ \tau^ {\prime} = - k _ {1} \bar {e} _ {2} + \mathbf {1} _ {N} \ddot {\eta} ^ {d} - \beta_ {0} x _ {s}, \tag {24} \\ \dot {x} _ {s} = - A _ {s} x _ {s} + (B _ {s} - x _ {s}) s ^ {+} - (D _ {s} + x _ {s}) s ^ {-}, \\ s = k _ {1} (L + B) \bar {e} _ {1} + \bar {e} _ {2}. \\ \end{array}
$$

Here, $A _ { s } = $ diag $\{ a _ { 1 } , \dotsc , a _ { N } \}$ , Bs = diag $\{ b _ { 1 } , \dotsc , b _ { N } \}$ and $D _ { s } = $ diag $\{ d _ { 1 } , \ldots , d _ { N } \}$ .
