Note that the stabilizability condition is necessary and sufficient condition to define the optimal control problem (Kailath et al., 2000) and it is weaker than the controllability assumption considered in prior works (Abbasi-Yadkori and Szepesv´ari, 2011; Cohen et al., 2019; Chen and Hazan, 2020). In particular, the set of stabilizable systems subsumes the set of controllable systems. Moreover, $( \kappa , \gamma )$ -stabilizability is merely a quantification of stabilizability for the finite-time analysis and it is adopted in recent works (Cohen et al., 2018, 2019; Cassel et al., 2020). One can show that any stabilizable system is also $( \kappa , \gamma )$ -stabilizable for some κ and $\gamma ,$ conversely, $( \kappa , \gamma )$ -stabilizability implies stabilizability (Lemma B.1 Cohen et al. (2018)). We have the following assumption on $w _ { t }$ .

Assumption 2 (Gaussian Process Noise) There exists a filtration $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ such that for all $t \geq 0 , x _ { t } , z _ { t }$ are $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ -measurable and $w _ { t } | \mathcal { F } _ { t } = \mathcal { N } ( 0 , \sigma _ { w } ^ { 2 } I )$ for some known $\sigma _ { w } > 0 .$ .

Note that this assumption is standard in literature and adopted for simplicity of exposure. The following results can be extended to sub-Gaussian process noise setting using the techniques developed in Lale et al. (2022). At each time step, the regulating cost is $c _ { t } = x _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } Q x _ { t } + u _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } R u _ { t }$ , where $Q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ and $R \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times d }$ are known positive definite matrices such that $\| Q \| , \| R \| < \bar { \alpha }$ and $\sigma _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( Q ) , \sigma _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( R ) > \underline { { \alpha } } > 0$ . The goal is to minimize the average expected cost

$$J (\Theta_ {*}) = \lim _ {T \rightarrow \infty} \min _ {u = [ u _ {1}, \dots , u _ {T} ]} \frac {1}{T} \mathbb {E} \left[ \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {T} x _ {t} ^ {\intercal} Q x _ {t} + u _ {t} ^ {\intercal} R u _ {t} \right], \tag {2}$$
