Mohamad Kazem Shirani Faradonbeh, Ambuj Tewari, and George Michailidis.
On adaptive linear– quadratic regulators.
Automatica, 117:108982, 2020.
Bernard Friedland.
Control system design: an introduction to state-space methods.
Courier Corporation, 2012.

Zhong-Sheng Hou and Zhuo Wang. From model-based control to data-driven control: Survey, classification and perspective. Information Sciences, 235:3–35, 2013.   
Tadashi Ishihara, Hai-Jiao Guo, and Hiroshi Takeda. A design of discrete-time integral controllers with computation delays via loop transfer recovery. Automatica, 28(3):599–603, 1992.   
Thomas Kailath, Ali H Sayed, and Babak Hassibi. Linear estimation, 2000.   
Sahin Lale, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Babak Hassibi, and Anima Anandkumar. Logarithmic regret bound in partially observable linear dynamical systems. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:20876–20888, 2020.   
Sahin Lale, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Babak Hassibi, and Anima Anandkumar. Finite-time system identification and adaptive control in autoregressive exogenous systems. In Learning for Dynamics and Control, pages 967–979. PMLR, 2021.   
Sahin Lale, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Babak Hassibi, and Animashree Anandkumar. Reinforcement learning with fast stabilization in linear dynamical systems. In International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 5354–5390. PMLR, 2022.   
Horia Mania, Stephen Tu, and Benjamin Recht. Certainty equivalent control of lqr is efficient. arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.07826, 2019.   
Yi Ouyang, Mukul Gagrani, and Rahul Jain. Learning-based control of unknown linear systems with thompson sampling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.04047, 2017.   
Benjamin Recht. A tour of reinforcement learning: The view from continuous control. Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 2:253–279, 2019.   
Oron Sabag, Gautam Goel, Sahin Lale, and Babak Hassibi. Regret-optimal full-information control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.01244, 2021.   
Max Simchowitz and Dylan J Foster. Naive exploration is optimal for online lqr. arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.09576, 2020.   
William R Thompson. On the likelihood that one unknown probability exceeds another in view of the evidence of two samples. Biometrika, 25(3/4):285–294, 1933.
