# Contributions

In this work, we give an affirmative answer to the conjecture posed in Abeille and Lazaric (2018):

1) We propose an efficient adaptive control algorithm, Thompson Sampling-based Adaptive Control (TSAC), that attains $\tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret in multidimensional stabilizable LQRs. This makes TSAC the first efficient adaptive control algorithm to achieve order-optimal regret in all stabilizable LQRs without the prior knowledge of a stabilizing policy (Table 1).   
2) We empirically demonstrate the performance of TSAC and compare to the optimism (heuristic) and TS-based methods that do not require initial stabilizing policy in flight control of Boeing 747 with linearized dynamics. We show that TSAC effectively explores the system to find a stabilizing policy and achieves the competitive regret performance, while being computationally feasible.

The design of TSAC and our regret guarantee hinge on three important pieces missing in prior works: Fixed policy update rule, improved exploration in early stages of adaptive control, and a novel lower bound that shows TS samples optimistic parameters with non-zero probability in multidimensional LQRs. Unlike the frequent policy update rule of Abeille and Lazaric (2018) in scalar LQRs, TSAC updates its policy with fixed time periods. This policy update rule prevents fast policy changes that would cause state blow-ups in stabilizable LQRs. In the beginning of agentenvironment interaction, TSAC focuses on quickly finding a stabilizing controller to avoid state blow-ups due to lack of a known initial stabilizing policy. By using isotropic exploration in the early stages along with the exploration of TS policy, we show that TSAC achieves fast stabilization.

After stabilizing the unknown system dynamics, TSAC relies on the effective exploration of the TS to find desirable controllers. In particular, we show that the TS samples optimistic parameters with a constant probability in any LQR setting. This novel lower bound shows that the TS is an efficient alternative to optimism in all adaptive control problems in LQRs. Combining this lower bound with the fixed policy update rule, we derive the optimal regret guarantee for TSAC.
