$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {d} _ {c} \\ \dot {d} _ {e} \end{array} \right] \leq \left[ \begin{array}{c c} - \lambda_ {c c} & L _ {\Delta k} \\ (*) & - \lambda_ {e} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} d _ {c c} \\ d _ {e} \end{array} \right] + \left[ \begin{array}{c} \sqrt {\bar {\lambda} _ {D _ {c}} (M _ {c})} \bar {w} _ {x} \\ \sqrt {\bar {\lambda} (W _ {e})} \bar {w} _ {x} + \frac {\rho}{2} \bar {\lambda} (M _ {e}) ^ {1 / 2} \left(L _ {\hat {h} ^ {- 1}} \bar {w} _ {y} + \bar {\epsilon} _ {\{1, \hat {2}, 3 \}} (x ^ {*}, \theta)\right) \end{array} \right], \tag {19}
$$

where we regroup the terms for $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 2 } ( x ^ { * } , \theta )$ as $\overline { { \epsilon } } _ { \widetilde { 2 } } ( x ^ { * } , \theta ) \doteq \overline { { \epsilon } } _ { 2 } ( x ^ { * } , \theta ) - L _ { p } d _ { c } / \sqrt { \underline { { \lambda } } _ { D _ { c } } ( M _ { c } ) } ;$ and $( * ) = 0 . 5 L _ { p } \rho \sqrt { \bar { \lambda } ( M _ { e } ) / \underline { { { \lambda _ { D _ { c } } } } } ( M _ { c } ) }$ if using $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 2 }$ and 0 else. Then, we have this result:

Theorem 1 (From derivative to value). Let RHS denote the right hand side of (19). Given bounds on the Riemannian distances at $t = 0 \colon d _ { c } ( 0 ) \leq \bar { d } _ { c } ( 0 )$ and $d _ { e } ( 0 ) \leq \bar { d } _ { e } ( 0 )$ upper bounds $\bar { d } _ { c } ( t ) \geq d _ { c } ( t )$ and $\bar { d } _ { e } ( t ) \geq d _ { e } ( t )$ for all $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ can be written as

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} d _ {c} (t) \\ d _ {e} (t) \end{array} \right] \leq \int_ {\tau = 0} ^ {t} R H S \left(\tau , \left[ \begin{array}{l} d _ {c} \\ d _ {e} \end{array} \right]\right) d \tau \doteq \left[ \begin{array}{l} \bar {d} _ {c} (t) \\ \bar {d} _ {e} (t) \end{array} \right], \quad d _ {c} (0) = \bar {d} _ {c} (0), d _ {e} (0) = \bar {d} _ {e} (0). \tag {20}
$$

Evaluating the integral in (20) is efficient as RHS is affine, so $\bar { d } _ { c }$ and $\bar { d } _ { e }$ can be readily used in planning (cf. Sec. 4.4). However, note that these tubes are only locally valid, e.g., evaluating the tubes outside of $D _ { x }$ will give incorrect values. We detail a set of validity conditions in Sec. 4.4, prove their sufficiency in Thm. $^ { 2 , }$ use them in our planner, and show in Sec. 5 that a baseline that ignores these conditions is unsafe. Finally, we close with a remark on how we estimate the constants in the bounds.
