# A. Electricity Grids

Electrical grids are complex systems that involve control optimization at multiple levels [3] including the following:

• Grid level control: The main optimization challenge here is to ensure that a heterogeneous mix of generation power sources matches a time-varying customer demand for electricity using predicted demand (e.g., from analytics using weather data) and the feedback signal of power quality (sensed at demand points through PMUs) to obtain real-time actuation of a heterogeneous mix of generation power sources, even while ensuring grid stability and availability. Because power generators are physical systems with significant inertia, they have start-up delays and are prone to myriad thermomechanical faults and failures. Additionally, the control decisions are constrained by the transmission and distribution limitations of the grid.

The authors are with Tata Consultancy Services - Research, India.

• Supply side control: The key optimization challenges within the generation sources at the supply side are typically to ensure efficient operations and improve the asset lifetime. As an example, wind turbines [4] need continuous (typically, pitch and yaw) control to ensure maximum power yield from rapidly changing wind conditions and a longer life of assets (e.g., gearbox, blade health). Further, a wind farm-level controller could potentially make better decisions than an individual turbine level. In solar plants with thousands of photovoltaic cells, trackers could follow the movement of the sun to extract the maximum solar irradiance through the day.

• From supply to demand: Because the prime movers (wind, sun, tides, etc.,) in renewable sources are highly unpredictable, integrating renewables in an electricity grid requires the grid to handle additional variance at the supply side in addition to the existing variance at the demand side. Therefore, if renewables are to constitute a significant fraction of supply, alternate grid models are required. Specifically, instead of the current supplyfollowing-demand model, optimization approaches are needed to orchestrate/control a demand-following-supply model where demand is shifted from periods of energy deficit to those of higher supply.
