# III. CLASSICAL OPTIMIZATION METHODS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE CPS

For optimizing the operations of a physical process, a good model of the process is needed. A model focuses on the important elements of the process and abstracts out the rest. Models can be mathematical (i.e., based on mathematical functions derived either analytically or empirically) or simulation based. For infrastructure CPS, the output of the model’s optimization (‘decision variables’) would be the controller’s inputs to achieve a desired feature (‘objective function’) of the controlled process. Appropriate numerical or analytical optimization methods are used to solve the optimization problem where the respective method is used to choose the best solution among various available alternatives, while keeping in line with the objective function of the system process and the operating constraints. Depending on the forms of the objective function and constraints, optimization problems can be classified as linear, quadratic, semi-definite, semi-infinite, integer, non-linear, etc. Classical methods are broadly of the following types [9]:

• First order: They are iterative techniques that only use the information provided in the objective function and its

gradient (or sub-gradient) to find the optimal solution. Examples include the (batch and stochastic) gradient descent, AdaGrad, Adam, etc.

• Higher order: They use curvature information, in addition to the gradient, to solve problems where the objective function is highly non-linear and ill-conditioned. Examples include conjugate gradient, (stochastic) quasi-Newton method, Hessian-Free method, etc.

• Derivative-free: They are used in problem settings where the derivative of the objective function and constraints may not exist or is difficult to calculate. Examples include heuristic (that are characterized by empirical rules); metaheuristic (such as genetic algorithms, simulated annealing, differential evolution, harmony search, ant colony algorithms, and particle swarm optimization).
