where $\tilde { \lambda } _ { i }$ is a known positive constant. This parameter typically depends on the marine situations.

Letting

$$\bar {e} _ {1} = \left[ e _ {1, 1}, e _ {1, 2}, \dots , e _ {1, N} \right] ^ {\mathrm{T}}, \tag {6}\bar {e} _ {2} = [ \dot {e} _ {1, 1}, \dot {e} _ {1, 2}, \dots , \dot {e} _ {1, N} ] ^ {\mathrm{T}},$$

and

$$\ddot {\eta} = \left[ \ddot {\eta} _ {1}, \ddot {\eta} _ {2}, \dots , \ddot {\eta} _ {N} \right] ^ {\mathrm{T}}, \tag {7}$$

the global error dynamics of overall system can be written as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {\bar {e}} _ {1} = \bar {e} _ {2}, \\ \therefore (7 - 7) (x - x ^ {d}) \end{array} \tag {8}
\dot {\bar {e}} _ {2} = (L + B) \left(\ddot {\eta} - \mathbf {1} _ {N} \ddot {\eta} ^ {d}\right),$$

where matrices L and B are defined in II-A, which describes the communication topology of entire system. $\mathbf { 1 } _ { N }$ represents a N -dimensional vector whose entries are all equal to 1.

The consensus formation control objective, now, is cast into designing a distributed control law so that the global error dynamics (8) can be stabilized at the origin. Next, sliding mode control design is employed and can be divided into the following two steps.

Step1: Define the sliding mode surface

Let

$$s = \left[ s _ {1}, s _ {2}, \dots s _ {N} \right] ^ {\mathrm{T}}, \tag {9}$$

and the sliding mode variable s is defined as

$$s = k _ {1} (L + B) \bar {e} _ {1} + \bar {e} _ {2}, \tag {10}$$

where $k _ { 1 }$ is a positive constant needed to be designed. As we can see, so long as the sliding mode variable s is able to reach to 0 in finite time, i.e., $s \left( t \right) \equiv 0 , t \geq T .$ , say, system reached the sliding mode surface, the behavior of $\bar { e } _ { 1 }$ then will be solely governed by the sliding mode surface $s = \dot { \bar { e } } _ { 1 } +$ $k _ { 1 } \left( L + B \right) \bar { e } _ { 1 } = 0$ in all future time, which leads to $\bar { e } ( t )  0 \mathrm { { : } }$ , as $t  \infty$ . In other words, the system’s behaviour will be firmly restricted into the surface and sliding on it until $\bar { e } ( t ) $ 0. Most importantly, as we observed there is no disturbance terms enforced on the sliding mode surface while the original system dynamics may be subject to all kinds of disturbances, and thus robustness properties can be achieved once system enters into the sliding mode surface. At next step, our goal is to design sliding mode control law to render system reach to the sliding mode surface and stay on it in all finite time.

Step2: Design sliding mode control law
