# 4.1 Learning a perception module for contraction-based estimation

Let us reconsider the observer (3), which updates its estimate directly using $y - h ( \hat { x } , \theta )$ in the rich observation space. To implement (3), one can use S to train a deep approximation of $h ,$ , denoted $\hat { h } ,$ , design an OCM satisfying (4) for $\begin{array} { r } { C ( \hat { x } ) = \frac { \partial \hat { h } ( \hat { x } , \theta ) } { \partial x } } \end{array}$ ∂hˆ(ˆx,θ) , and plug hˆ $\hat { h }$ ∂x and the OCM into (3). This naïve solution is flawed: 1) as $n _ { y }$ is large, learning an accurate $\hat { h }$ can be difficult; 2) the C(ˆx) in (4) becomes the Jacobian of a (non-polynomial) deep network, complicating OCM synthesis by precluding the use of SoS programming.

We can take a more structured approach if we know which states can be directly inferred from $y ;$ this is reasonable if the states have semantic meaning (e.g., poses, velocities). Recall $C _ { r }$ (Sec. 3.1) defines this reduced observation as $y _ { r } = C _ { r } x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \tau } }$ r . We can then learn an approximate inverse $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 } ( y , \theta ) \ : \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { y } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { \hat { n _ { p } } } \  \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { r } }$ which maps a y and θ to the reduced observation. Note that if each unique y corresponds to a unique $y _ { r }$ , this inverse is well-defined and does not require the full state to be invertible from a single $y .$ . Concretely, consider a car with position, orientation, and velocity states $[ p _ { x } , p _ { y } , \phi , v ]$ ] and RGB-D data from an onboard camera (Fig. 1.A) driving in several obstacle fields. In this case, $y _ { r } = [ p _ { x } , p _ { y } , \phi ] ^ { \top }$ and θ could be the obstacle locations. We model $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ as a neural network and train it via the mean squared error between $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 } ( y _ { i } , \theta _ { i } )$ and $C _ { r } x _ { i }$ for all $i \in { 1 , \dots , N _ { \mathrm { d a t a } } }$ . Note that as the nominal reduced observations are roughly linear, i.e., $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 } ( h ( x , \theta ) , \theta ) \approx C _ { r } x .$ , this simplifies the nominal observer (3) to $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { \hat { x } } = \bar { f } ( \dot { x } ) + B u ( \hat { x } , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } ) + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \rho ( \hat { x } ) M _ { e } ( \hat { x } ) C _ { r } ^ { \top } C _ { r } ( x - \hat { x } ) } \end{array}$ , and simplifies OCM synthesis: as $C _ { r } ^ { \top } C _ { r }$ is constant, (4) is SoS-representable, despite $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ being nonpolynomial. Compared to the nominal reduced observer, the true observer we use,

$$\dot {\hat {x}} = f (\hat {x}) + B u \left(\hat {x}, x ^ {*}, u ^ {*}\right) + \frac {1}{2} \rho (\hat {x}) M _ {e} (\hat {x}) C _ {r} ^ {\top} \left(\hat {h} ^ {- 1} \left(h (x, \theta) + B _ {y} w _ {y}, \theta\right) - C _ {r} \hat {x}\right), \tag {6}$$

experiences disturbance from model error $B _ { w } w _ { x }$ , sensor noise $B _ { y } w _ { y } ,$ , and learning error $\| \hat { h } ^ { - 1 } ( h ( x , \theta ) , \theta ) - C _ { r } x \|$ . Quantifying these errors for our vision-based observer (6) is one of our core contributions and is key in deriving tracking bounds useful for planning.
