# IV. NEW OPTIMIZATION APPROACHES FOR INFRASTRUCTURE CPS

Key desiderata of future optimization approaches for infrastructure CPS include intelligence, composability, scalability, and practicality.

In addition to standard control of a CPS, intelligence in a CPS will be characterized by an ability to learn and improve at tasks over time, either from an individual interaction with the environment or from collective experiences through centralized over-the-air (OTA) knowledge sharing. For example, an autonomous vehicle (AV) can learn to drive and share its experiences with a centralized database, where post processing, an OTA update to the car’s driving ability occurs. A CPS typically involves sequential decision making, and so reinforcement learning is a popular candidate for learning to control a CPS. Because a CPS could be mission critical, learning typically may not be on a real-world system. Instead, a digital twin is typically used in a simulated environment for sufficient exploration and such learning is transferred to the real-world with limited experimentation. Edge computing and machine learning will likely be key mechanisms for delivering such learning technologies in typical CPS. Unlike purely software systems, CPS needs to respect physical constraints such as inertia and lag in both sensing and actuation. For instance, a wind turbine under rotation may not be able to change its pitch and yaw at a rate higher than some upper bound.

A CPS can become truly useful when it can be composed with or be part of a larger system that involves identical or other systems. For identical CPS, self-organization is a key requirement that can help build scale on demand, for example with an aerial drone survey of all or part of an entire city. Swarm intelligence from nature could be a guiding principle for such architectures. A smart city is a good example of a large-scale system composed of multiple non-identical smaller CPS that together deliver value to citizens.
