# 1. Introduction

There has been a significant development in data-driven methods for controlling dynamical systems in recent years due to the development of novel reinforcement learning approaches and techniques (Hou and Wang, 2013). Adaptive control of unknown linear dynamical systems has been the main focus due to its simplicity and its ability to capture the crux of the problem and give insights on more challenging tasks (Recht, 2019). Among linear dynamical systems, Linear Quadratic Regulators (LQRs) are the canonical settings with quadratic regulatory costs to design desirable controllers and have been studied in an array of prior works (Abbasi-Yadkori and Szepesv´ari, 2011; Faradonbeh et al., 2017; Abeille and Lazaric, 2018; Mania et al., 2019; Simchowitz and Foster, 2020; Chen and Hazan, 2020; Lale et al., 2022). These works provide finite-time performance guarantees of adaptive control algorithms in terms of regret, which is the difference between the attained cumulative cost and the expected cost of the optimal controller. In particular, they show that $\tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$

regret after T time steps is optimal in adaptive control of LQRs. They utilize several different paradigms for algorithm design such as Certainty Equivalence, Optimism or Thompson Sampling, yet, they suffer either from the inherent algorithmic drawbacks or limited applicability in practice.

Certainty equivalent control and its challenges: Certainty equivalent control (CEC) is one of the most straightforward paradigms for control design in adaptive control of dynamical systems. In CEC, an agent obtains a nominal estimate of the system, and executes the optimal control law for this estimated system. Even though Mania et al. (2019); Simchowitz and Foster (2020) show that this simple approach attains optimal regret in LQRs, the proposed algorithms have several drawbacks. First and foremost, CEC is sensitive to model mismatch and requires significantly small model estimation error to a point that exploration of the system dynamics is not required. Since this level of refinement is challenging to obtain for an unknown system, these methods rely on access to an initial stabilizing controller to enable a long exploration. In practice, such a priori known controllers may not be available, which hinders the deployment of these algorithms.
