# A. SOS Program Based CBF

Different from [23], our control $a ^ { C B F }$ is solved by SOS program with polynomial barrier functions, rather than the $\mathrm { Q P }$ and linear barrier functions. In [23], they initially constructed QP with monotonous linear barrier constraints to cope with RL. Obviously, a safe but more relaxed searching area will enhance the RL training performance. We propose a SOS program to compute a minimal control with polynomial barrier function based on Lemma 3.

Lemma 3 declared that we can compute a minimal control $a ^ { C B F }$ from an approximated polynomial system (8) directly. However, it is hard to define the minimization of the convex function $a ^ { C B F }$ in (12). The optimal control can be searched by using the following 2 steps:

Step 1: Search an optimal auxiliary factor $L ( s _ { t } )$ by maximizing the scalar $\epsilon _ { 1 }$ ,

$$
\begin{array}{l} L^{*}(s_{t})\underset {\epsilon_{1}\in \mathcal{R}^{+},L(s_{t})\in \mathcal{P}^{\text{sos}}}{= }\arg \max \quad \epsilon_{1} \\ - \Delta h (s _ {t}, a ^ {C B F}) - M _ {i} (s _ {t}) \mu_ {i} (s _ {t}) \in \mathcal {P} ^ {\mathrm{SOS}}, \\ \end{array}
$$

where $L ( s _ { t } )$ is an auxiliary factor to obtain a permissive constraint for the existing action aCBF . $a ^ { C B F }$

Step 2: Given $L ( s _ { t } )$ from last step, search an optimal control of $a ^ { C B F }$ with minimal control cost by minimizing

the scalar $\epsilon _ { 2 } .$

$${a _ {t} ^ {*}} {= \underset {\epsilon_ {2} \in \mathcal {R} ^ {+}} {\arg \min} \quad \epsilon_ {2}}$$

$\begin{array} { r l } { \mathrm { s . t . } } & { { } \Delta h \big ( s _ { t } , a ^ { C B F } \big ) - L ( s _ { t } ) h ( s _ { t } ) - \epsilon _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { P } ^ { \mathrm { S O S } } } \end{array}$ (16)

$$- \Delta h (s _ {t}, a ^ {C B F}) - M _ {i} (s _ {t}) \mu_ {i} (s _ {t}) \in \mathcal {P} ^ {\mathrm{SOS}}.$$

Remark. The scalars $\epsilon _ { 1 }$ and $\epsilon _ { 2 }$ in (15) and (16) are used to limit the magnitude of the coefficients’ optimization of $L ( s _ { t } )$ and $a _ { t } ,$ respectively.

The SOS programs above demonstrate the details of a target controller computation of the system (8), and the solution of (16) regulates the dynamical safety via a control barrier function directly.
