We write Lemma 2 for constant $\rho$ and $M _ { e } ,$ , as this is the representation used in Sec. 5. Here, $L _ { \hat { h } ^ { - 1 } }$ is the local Lipschitz constant of $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ , and $\bar { \epsilon } _ { \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \} } ( x ^ { * } , \theta )$ are (spatiallyvarying) bounds on its error $\| \hat { h } ^ { - 1 } ( h ( x , \theta ) , \theta ) - C _ { r } x \|$ , each with different strengths/weaknesses (cf. Fig. 4 for a visual overview). Relative to prior work, Lemma 2 is novel as it bounds high-dimensional measurement error and learned perception module error. Overall, (11) states that estimation accuracy degrades with larger dynamics error, measurement error, and learned perception module error.

Bounding tracking error: We explain more details behind Lemma 1. As Lemma 1 relies on a bound for $w _ { c } ( t )$ , we first break down the components that make up $w _ { c } ( t )$ . Relative to the nominal closed-loop dynamics (7a), our true closed-loop system

$$\dot {x} (t) = f (x (t)) + B u (\hat {x} (t), x ^ {*} (t), u ^ {*} (t)) + B _ {w} (t) w _ {x} (t) \tag {12}$$

is subject to two disturbances. The first is the dynamics error $B _ { w } ( t ) w _ { x } ( t )$ . The second is imperfect state feedback: we apply $u ( \hat { x } , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } )$ instead of $u ( x , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } )$ , which unlike the latter, may not stabilize (7a) at rate $\lambda _ { c } .$ Naïvely, one can bound this error by rewriting (12) as $\dot { x } = f ( x ) + B u ( \hat { x } , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } ) - B u ( x , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } ) + B u ( x , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } ) +$ $B _ { w } w _ { x } .$ , where the difference between output/perfect state feedback is in red. While $\| B u ( \hat { x } , x ^ { \ast } , u ^ { \ast } ) - B u ( x , x ^ { \ast } , u ^ { \ast } ) \|$ is a valid disturbance bound, we can obtain a tighter bound by exploiting the structure of $u ( x , x ^ { * } , u ^ { * } )$ . In general, many $u _ { \mathrm { f b } } \in \mathcal { U }$ can make $\dot { x } = f ( x ) + B ( u ^ { * } + u _ { \mathrm { f b } } )$ contract at rate $\lambda _ { c }$ towards $x ^ { * }$ , w.r.t. $M _ { c } .$ Define $\begin{array} { r l } { { \dot { x } } ^ { * } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $f ( x ^ { * } ) + B u ^ { * }$ ; then, the contracting $u _ { \mathrm { f b } }$ [22] are defined by a linear inequality constraint,

$$\mathcal {U} _ {\text { feas }} (x, x ^ {*}, u ^ {*}) = \{u _ {\mathrm{fb}} \mid \gamma_ {c, s} ^ {\top} (1) M _ {c} (x) \dot {x} - \gamma_ {c, s} ^ {\top} (0) M _ {c} (x ^ {*}) \dot {x} ^ {*} \leq - \lambda_ {c} d _ {c} (x ^ {*}, x) ^ {2} \}, \tag {13}$$
