thus, $L _ { \varDelta k }$ does not need to be estimated.
We assume $\bar { d } _ { c } ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 3 } , \bar { d } _ { e } ( 0 ) = 0 .
3 2$ , and noiseless images $\| w _ { y } \| = 0$ .

We plan 100 trajectories in D from various initial $j , j$ , and orientation estimates, taking 45 seconds on average. We summarize the error statistics in Table 1. Across all trials, when planning with CORRT, x and xˆ always remain within the computed tubes $\varOmega _ { c } ( t )$ and $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ ; the CCM keeps the tracking error very small, and the OCM shrinks the error by a factor of $> 1 8$ . Crucially, if a plan is found where $\varOmega _ { e } ( T )$ satisfies the estimation accuracy threshold, we can ensure our true state estimate satisfies $| \phi _ { i } ( T ) - \hat { \phi } _ { i } ( T ) | \leq 0 . 1 , i = 1 , 2 , 3$ . We are able to find plans that achieve this threshold for 100/100 trials. We compare with two baselines in this example: B1 (as described before), and B3, which keeps the arm stationary and runs (6) for the same duration as the plan computed using CORRT. The purpose of B3 is to show that the actions taken by the CORRT plan help to reduce estimation error. In contrast to CORRT, B1 violates its computed $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ in 44/100 trials and can fail to achieve the required estimation accuracy, only satisfying the 0.1 threshold in 79/100 trials (see Fig. 8). One failure example is shown in Fig. 8.B: the arm moves too close to the camera (outside of $D _ { r } )$ , causing the duck to fall out of frame. This causes a sharp increase in $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ error, since $\phi _ { i }$ cannot be observed; this destabilizes (6), leading to a failure to satisfy the 0.1 threshold. Note that B1 does not violate $\varOmega _ { c } ;$ this is because the controller is not a function of the incorrect $\phi _ { i }$ estimates. Similarly, B3 often fails to satisfy the 0.1-estimation accuracy threshold, only satisfying it in 7/100 trials (see Fig. 8.A for a failure example). This shows that passively estimating $\phi _ { i }$ without moving the arm cannot achieve the needed estimation accuracy; instead, the arm must be moved towards regions with smaller perception error. Overall, this experiment suggests the applicability of our approach on high-dimensional systems, that it can design actions that improve state estimates, and that our approach can plan paths that guarantee a desired level of state estimation accuracy.
