2) The selections of parameters: For parameters $\hat { g } _ { j , k | k - 1 }$ and ${ \hat { s } } _ { 0 \vert 0 } .$ , they can be selected within a wide range, and it is suggested that they are tuned based on the specific system. For $\bar { Q } _ { j , k } ,$ , to obtain better performances, it is suggested that multiple nominal process noise covariances $\bar { Q } _ { j , k }$ are selected such that the true process noise covariance $Q _ { k }$ satisfies min $( \bar { Q } _ { j , k } , j \in M ) \leq Q _ { k } \leq \operatorname* { m a x } ( \bar { Q } _ { j , k } , j \in$ M ). For α0|0, it can be set as $1 _ { 1 \times M }$ , since it will be adaptively adjusted. For $\rho ,$ the forgetting factor is suggested to be selected as $\rho \in$ [0.94, 1] to obtain a good performance, as shown in the simulation part. For N and δ, they are selected as a big number and a sufficiently small number, respectively, to guarantee the iteration performance. It is worth mentioning that the effectiveness of such selections is verified in the simulation part.

3) Performance Analysis: The estimation performance has a strong correlation with the deviation between the nominal value and the true value, such as $\bar { R } _ { 0 }$ and $R _ { 0 }$ . When the deviation is smaller, the proposed algorithm has a better performance, as shown in Fig. 6 in Simulations. The parameters N and δ have a main influence on the estimation performance, and they have been discussed above. A concept “numerical stability” from [20] [25] is introduced to guarantee the feasibility of the proposed algorithm, i.e., the covariance matrices must be positive definite when the algorithm is in the numerical iteration process. Since $\bar { Q } _ { j , k } > 0 , \hat { R } _ { 0 } > 0 , A _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } > 0$ and Bi+1k > $B _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } > 0$ , it follows that $\tilde { P } _ { k \mid k - 1 } ^ { i + 1 } > 0$ and $\tilde { R } _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } > \mathrm { ~ 0 ~ }$ . Thus, ETVBF is numerically stable.

Proposition 1: For systems (10)-(11) under Algorithm 1, the estimation error $e _ { k | k } = \hat { x } _ { k | k } - x _ { k }$ is Gaussian.

PROOF. In Algorithm 1, denote the measurement update error and the predicted error as $e _ { k | k } = \hat { x } _ { k | k } - x _ { k }$ and $e _ { k | k - 1 } = \hat { x } _ { k | k - 1 } - x _ { k }$ , respectively. When $\gamma _ { k } = 0 ,$ , one has $e _ { k | k } = \hat { x } _ { k | k - 1 } - x _ { k } = e _ { k | k - 1 }$ . When $\gamma _ { k } \quad = \quad 1$ , one has $\begin{array} { r c l } { e _ { k | k } } & { = } & { ( I \ - \ K _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } H _ { k } ) ( \hat { x } _ { k | k - 1 } \ - \ } \end{array}$

$x _ { k } ) + K _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } \nu _ { k } = ( I - K _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } H _ { k } ) e _ { k | k - 1 } + K _ { k } ^ { i + 1 } \nu _ { k }$ . Additionally, $e _ { k | k - 1 } = F _ { k } { \hat { x } } _ { k - 1 | k - 1 } - F _ { k } x _ { k - 1 } - \omega _ { k - 1 } = F _ { k } e _ { k - 1 | k - 1 } - \omega _ { k - 1 }$ . Due to the Gaussianity of $e _ { 0 | 0 } = \hat { x } _ { 0 | 0 } - x _ { 0 } , \omega _ { k - 1 }$ , and $\nu _ { k } ,$ the error $e _ { k \left| k \right| }$ is Gaussian as can be verified inductively. 
