Remark 5. It should be noted that due to the introducing of shunting equations that effectively handles the SMC’s chattering issue and makes control activities more consistent and practical, strictly speaking, the two-phase characteristic of SMC scheme is no longer existing, i.e., reaching phase and sliding mode phase, but the resultant system is of a desirable cascaded interconnection with modular architecture consisted of several subsystems, which actually results from the design procedure of sliding mode control. Such a modularity property is very helpful and beneficial for the control system analysis and parameter tuning in practice.

Remark 6. It is observed from equations (25)–(27) that the order of the system is extended under the proposed shunting model based SMC scheme, from which we may say that our methodology can be regarded as a variant of the higher order sliding mode control (HOSMC) techniques. Generally speaking, in conventional HOSMC scheme an integral standard form is typically used to extend the relative degree of the system with the aims to smoothen the control inputs. Nonetheless, such an approach cannot totally render a chattering-free behavior, as the switching control law is still applied to satisfy the reaching condition. Furthermore, in order to synthesize such a controller, the assumption of bounded time derivative of disturbances is required, thus leading to a more conservative design. In a stark contrast, bioinspired HOSMC scheme completely gets rid of the chattering problem and doesn’t rely on such an assumption. Most importantly, due to the filtering properties of the shunting model, a more robust behavior can be obtained with respect to the bounded disturbances as well as the noises without using the high-gain control.
