We plan for 150 start/goals in $D ;$ our unoptimized implementation takes 2.5 minutes on average. This is done offline; the tracking controller is computed at real-time rates following Sec. 4.2 and [22]. For each trial, the obstacle map θ is selected uniformly within $D _ { \theta }$ . See Table 1 for error statistics. Over all trials, our method ensures $x ( t )$ and $x ^ { * } ( t )$ always remain within the CORRT-computed $\varOmega _ { c } ( t )$ and $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ , respectively, and reduces the initial tracking/estimation error by a factor of $> 5$ and 30, respectively. In contrast, B1 violates its $\varOmega _ { c } ( t )$ and $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ in 90/150 and 101/150 trials, respectively, fails to reduce tracking/estimation error, and can crash. For instance, in Fig. 6.C, the plan leaves $D _ { r } .$ , causing observation error to increase (here, $\hat { h }$ is inaccurate, since it is not trained outside of $D _ { r } )$ , destabilizing xˆ (Fig. 6.C, right), in turn destabilizing $x ,$ leading to the crash. Similarly, B2 violates its computed $\varOmega _ { c }$ in 60/150 trials (no $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ is computed for B2, as it assumes perfect state information), fails to shrink tracking/estimation errors, leading to crashes (see Fig. 6). As in B1, this crash also arises from observation error. Overall, this experiment suggests that CORRT ensures safe goal-reaching for nonholonomic systems using RGB-D data, and that it generalizes to different environments (i.e., obstacle layouts), while baselines are unsafe.
