# 6 Discussion and Conclusion

We present a motion planning algorithm for control-affine systems that enables safe tracking at runtime using an output feedback controller with image observations as input. To achieve this, we learn a perception system and use it in an OCM and CCMbased output feedback control loop. We derive tracking tubes for the closed-loop system and use them within an RRT-based planner to compute plans that theoretically guarantee safe goal-reaching at runtime. Our results empirically validate this safety guarantee, and show that ignoring the effects of state estimation error and the local validity of the perception system/estimator/controller can lead to unsafe behavior.

Our method has some weaknesses which reveal directions for future work. While the large dataset S used to train $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ is easy to gather in simulation, sim-to-real is then needed for $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ to transfer to the real world. Thus, in future work, we will combine synthetic, domain-randomized perception data with a small real-world labeled dataset to train generalizable perception modules that have calibrated estimates of the sim-toreal error. Our method also assumes noiseless training data, to ensure $L _ { p }$ is finite; in the future, we wish to relax this by investigating Lipschitz constant estimation methods robust to input noise [4] . Another drawback is the conservativeness of using worstcase disturbances; to mitigate this, we will integrate stochastic contraction [11] into our method. Finally, we require θ to be known; in future work, we will aim to jointly estimate θ and x with similar convergence guarantees.
