# Introduction

Chaotic response is related to a dense set of unstable periodic orbits (UPOs) and the system often visits the neighborhood of each one of them. Moreover, chaos has sensitive dependence to initial condition, which implies that the system evolution may be altered by small perturbations. Chaos control is based on the richness of chaotic behavior and may be understood as the use of tiny perturbations for the stabilization of an UPO embedded in a chaotic attractor. It makes this kind of behavior to be desirable in a variety of applications, since one of these UPO can provide better performance than others in a particular situation. Due to these characteristics, chaos and many regulatory mechanisms control the dynamics of living systems. Inspired by nature, it is possible to imagine situations where chaos control is employed to stabilize desirable behaviors of mechanical systems. Under this condition, these systems would present a great flexibility when controlled, being able to quickly change from one kind of response to another. Literature presents some contributions related to the analysis of chaos control in mechanical systems. Andrievskii and Fradkov (2004) and Savi et al. (2006) present an overview of applications of chaos control in various scientific fields.

Intelligent control, on the other hand, has proven to be a very attractive approach to cope with uncertain nonlinear systems (Bessa, 2005; Bessa et al., 2005, 2017, 2018, 2019; Dos Santos and Bessa, 2019; Lima et al., 2018, 2020, 2021; Tanaka et al., 2013). By combining nonlinear control techniques, such as feedback linearization or sliding modes, with adaptive intelligent algorithms, for example fuzzy logic or artificial neural networks, the resulting intelligent control strategies can deal with the nonlinear characteristics as well as with modeling imprecisions and external disturbances that can arise.
