At this point, it should be highlighted that the control law (3), together with (4), is sufficient to impose the sliding condition

$$\frac {1}{2} \frac {d}{d t} s ^ {2} \leq - \eta | s | \tag {5}$$

and, consequently, the finite time convergence to the sliding surface S.

In order to obtain a good approximation to the disturbance $p ( t )$ , the estimate $\hat { p }$ will be computed directly by an adaptive fuzzy algorithm. The adopted fuzzy inference system was the zero order TSK (Takagi–Sugeno– Kang), whose rules can be stated in an appropriate linguistic manner. Considering that each rule defines a numerical value as output $\hat { P } _ { r }$ , the final output $\hat { p }$ can be computed by the dot product:

$$\hat {p} (s) = \hat {\mathbf {P}} ^ {\mathrm{T}} \boldsymbol {\Psi} (s) \tag {6}$$

where $\ldots , \psi _ { N } ( s ) ] ^ { \tilde { \mathrm { T } } }$ $\hat { \mathbf { P } } = [ \hat { P } _ { 1 } , \hat { P } _ { 2 } , \hdots , \hat { P } _ { N } ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ is a vector with componeain the better estimation is the vector containing the attributed values $\smash { \psi _ { r } ( s ) = \bar { w } _ { r } / \sum _ { r = 1 } ^ { N } }$ wce and  the $w _ { r }$ is the firing strength of each rule. Inctor of adjustable parameters can be $\hat { P } _ { r }$ to each rule $r , \Psi ( s ) = [ \psi _ { 1 } ( s ) , \psi _ { 2 } ( s )$ $\hat { p } ( s )$ $p ,$ automatically updated by $\dot { \hat { \mathbf { P } } } = \varphi s \Psi ( s )$ , where $\varphi$ is a strictly positive constant related to the adaptation rate.

In order to evaluate the stability of the closed-loop system, let a positive-definite function V be defined as

$$V (t) = \frac {1}{2} s ^ {2} + \frac {1}{2 \varphi} \boldsymbol {\delta} ^ {\mathrm{T}} \boldsymbol {\delta} \tag {7}$$

where $\pmb { \delta } = \hat { \mathbf { P } } - \hat { \mathbf { P } } ^ { * }$ and ${ \hat { \mathbf { P } } } ^ { * }$ is the optimal parameter vector, associated with the optimal estimate $\hat { p } ^ { * } ( s )$ . Thus, by considering the time derivative of $V$ and defining a minimum approximation error as $\varepsilon = \hat { p } ^ { * } ( s ) - p$ , and recalling the definitions of $s ,$ u and ${ \hat { P } } ,$ , it is possible to verify that $\dot { V }$ becomes

$$\dot {V} (t) = - \left[ (\hat {f} - f) + \varepsilon + \hat {h} ^ {- 1} \hat {u} - h \hat {u} - h K \operatorname{sgn} (s) \right] s \leq - \eta | s | \tag {8}$$

Here assumptions 1–3 are evoked and K is defined according to (4). This implies $V ( t ) \leq V ( 0 )$ and that s and δ are bounded. Integrating both sides of (8) and evoking Barbalat’s lemma it is established that $s \to 0$ as $t \to \infty$ , which ensures the convergence of the states to the sliding surface $S$ and to the desired trajectory. At this point, it should be notice that discontinuous terms can produce undesirable high frequency oscillations of the controlled variable. Therefore, it is convenient to use saturation functions that smoothes system discontinuities (Slotine and Li, 1991).
