On the other hand, Abeille and Lazaric (2018) bound $R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { T S } }$ by showing that TS samples the optimistic parameters, $\tilde { \Theta } _ { t }$ such that $J ( \tilde { \Theta } _ { t } ) \leq J ( \Theta _ { * } )$ , with a constant probability, which reduces the regret of non-optimistic steps. Unlike the conventional policy update approaches, the key idea in Abeille and Lazaric (2018) is to update the control policy every time-steps via TS, which increases the amount of optimistic policies during the execution. They show that while this frequent update rule reduces $R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { T 5 } }$ , it only results with $\bar { R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { g a p } } } = \tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ . However, they were only able to show that this constant probability of optimistic sampling holds for scalar LQRs.

The difficulty of the analysis for the probability of optimistic parameter sampling lies in the challenging characterization of the optimistic set. Since $J ( \bar { \Theta } ) { = } \sigma _ { w } ^ { 2 } \mathrm { t r } ( P ( \tilde { \Theta } ) )$ ) , one needs to consider the spectrum of $P ( \tilde { \Theta } )$ to define optimistic models, which makes the analysis difficult. In particular, decreasing the cost along one direction may be result in an increase in other directions. However, for the scalar LQR setting considered in Abeille and Lazaric (2018), $J ( \tilde { \Theta } ) = P ( \tilde { \Theta } )$ and using standard perturbation results on DARE suffices. As mentioned in Abeille and Lazaric (2018), one can naively consider the surrogate set of being optimistic in all directions, i.e. $P ( \tilde { \Theta } ) \prec P ( \Theta _ { * } )$ . Nevertheless, this would result in probability that decays linear in time and does not yield sub-linear regret. In this work, we propose new surrogate sets to derive a lower bound on the probability of having optimistic samples, and show that TS in fact samples optimistic model parameters with constant probability.
