# I. INTRODUCTION

Reinforcement learning (RL) is one of the most popular methods for accomplishing the long-term objective of a Markov-decision process [1]–[6]. This learning method aims for an optimal policy that can maximize a long-term reward in a given environment recursively. For the case of RL policy gradient method [7]–[9], this reward-related learning problem is traditionally addressed using gradient descent to obtain superior control policies.

RL algorithms might generate desired results in some academic trials, e.g., robotic experiments [10], [11] and autonomous driving contexts [12], [13]. But for realistic situations, how to completely guarantee the safety based on these RL policies is still a problem. The intermediate policies from the RL agent’s exploration and exploitation processes may sometimes ruin the environment or the agent itself, which is unacceptable for safety-critical systems. Moreover, disturbances around the system would confuse the agent over learning process, which make the control tasks more complex and challenging.

To cope with the issues above, various methods are proposed to specify dynamical safety during the learning process. Initially, the region of attraction (ROA) from control Lyapunov functions or Lyapunov-like function work [14], [15] are used to certify the dynamical safety. Related and useful work of ROA estimation are introduced in [16]–[19]. In 2017, [20] started to execute the RL’s exploration and exploitation in ROA to maintain safety. Different from region constraint, in 2018 [21], [22] proposed a shield framework to select safe actions repeatedly. Inspired by this work, [23],

[24] further combined the control barrier function (CBF) to synthesis the RL-based controller. Note that, the CBF is not new to identify safe regions in control theory, [25], [26] are representative work to combine CBF in biped robot and [27] explored its implementation of quadrotors, etc. Appropriate region constraint for RL is important for building safe RL. Hence, a reliable learning method is expected to construct a controller inside the safe region over the process.
