# B. Problem Statement

Consider a discrete-time system as follows:

$$x _ {k} = F _ {k} x _ {k - 1} + \omega_ {k}, \tag {10}z _ {k} = H _ {k} x _ {k} + \nu_ {k}, \tag {11}$$

where $\boldsymbol { x } _ { k } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the system state, $F _ { k } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ is the state transition matrix, $z _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the measurement, $H _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n } \mathrm { i s }$ the measurement matrix, and $\boldsymbol { \omega } _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\nu _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ are mutually uncorrelated zero-mean Gaussian noise with covariances $Q _ { k } > 0$ and $R _ { k } > 0$ , respectively. The initial state $x _ { 0 }$ and its estimates $\hat { x } _ { 0 | 0 }$ obey Gaussian distributions.

In practice, the process and the measurement noise covariances may be unknown and time-varying, which are usually empirically estimated. In this paper, it is assumed that the initial nominal measurement noise covariance and M nominal process noise covariances are described by $\bar { R } _ { 0 }$ and

$$\bar {Q} _ {k} = \prod_ {j = 1} ^ {M} [ \bar {Q} _ {j, k} ] ^ {\lambda_ {j, k}}, \tag {12}$$

respectively, where $\bar { Q } _ { j , k }$ represents the j-th nominal process noise covariance at time $k ,$ and $\lambda _ { k } \ = \ ( \lambda _ { 1 , k } , . . . , \lambda _ { M , k } )$ is subject to the categorical distribution like (2). Practically, λk is not exactly known.

Remark 1: Under the event-triggered mechanism, the unknown process noise covariances cannot be jointly estimated in a recursive form like the measurement noise covariances by the variational Bayesian method. To solve this problem, the unknown process noise covariances are expected to be estimated by adaptive weight combinations of multiple nominal process noise covariances. From (12), $\begin{array} { r } { E \{ \bar { Q } _ { k } \} = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { M ^ { - } } E \{ \lambda _ { j , k } \} \bar { Q } _ { j , k } } \end{array}$ , where $E \{ \lambda _ { j , k } \}$ is utilized as the adaptive weight parameter. Hence, the unknown process noise covariance estimation problem is reformulated as the adaptive weight combination problem of multiple nominal process noise covariances.
