Fig. 4. Our perception error bounds. (A) ¯1 is simple but conservative. B) $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 2 } ( x ^ { * } )$ is tighter, as it only seeks to be valid over the tube $\varOmega _ { c }$ . However, it scales linearly with the size of $\Omega _ { c } . \mathrm { C } ) \bar { \epsilon } _ { 3 } ( x ^ { * } )$ can be tighter for larger $\varOmega _ { c }$ by adding a Lipschitz-based buffer to the largest training error in $\varOmega _ { c } .$ .

Now, consider the second braced term in (17). How can we bound the learned perception module error $\epsilon ( x , \theta ) \dot { = } \lVert \hat { h } ^ { - 1 } \bigl ( h ( x , \theta ) , \theta \bigr ) - C _ { r } x \rVert$ over $D _ { r } \times D _ { \theta } ?$ We describe three options (Fig. 4) at a high level, highlight their strengths/drawbacks, and provide the details in $\operatorname { A p p }$ . B. The first bound, denoted $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 1 } .$ , is a constant bound on $\epsilon ( x , \theta )$ globally over $D _ { r } \times D _ { \theta } \ ( \mathrm { F i g . ~ } 4 . \mathrm { A } )$ . This works well if the error is consistent, but is loose if there are any error spikes. The second bound (Fig. 4.B), denoted $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 2 } ( x ^ { * } , \theta )$ , bounds the error only in the tube $\varOmega _ { c }$ around a nominal $x ^ { * }$ , using the Lipschitz constant of $\epsilon ( x , \theta )$ (denoted $L _ { p } )$ . Due to its locality, $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 2 } ( x ^ { * } , \theta )$ can be tighter than $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 1 } ;$ however, it scales linearly with the size of $\varOmega _ { c } .$ , even if $\epsilon ( x , \theta )$ remains constant. The third bound, $\bar { \epsilon } _ { 3 } ( x ^ { * } , \theta )$ (Fig. 4.C), also bounds the error in the tube but avoids the linear scaling by taking the worst training error in $\varOmega _ { c }$ and buffering it with a constant value, which depends on $L _ { p }$ and the dataset dispersion $\mathcal { R } .$ . Each of these bounds $\bar { \epsilon } _ { \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \} }$ on $\epsilon ( x , \theta )$ can be plugged into Lemma 2 to upper bound $\epsilon ( x , \theta )$ ; see App. B for details.

Integrating the differential inequalities: Now that we can bound the RHSs of the differential inequalities (8) and (9) via Lemmas 1 and 2, we show how these bounds on $d _ { c }$ and $\dot { d } _ { e }$ bound the values of $d _ { c }$ and $d _ { e }$ , thereby providing the desired tubes. By grouping terms in $( 8 ) \AA { - } ( 9 )$ , we have the following affine vector-valued differential inequality,
