Ω(t) defines an ellipsoid, $\mathfrak { i . e . , } \ : \mathcal { Q } _ { c } ( t ) = \{ x ( t ) \ | \ ( x ( t ) - x ^ { * } ( t ) ) ^ { \top } M _ { c } ( x ( t ) - x ^ { * } ( t ) ) \le$ $\bar { d } _ { c } ( t ) ^ { 2 } \}$ and $\Omega _ { e } ( t ) = \{ \hat { x } ( t ) ~ | ~ ( \hat { x } ( t ) - x ( t ) ) ^ { \top } { \cal W } _ { e } ( \hat { x } ( t ) - x ( t ) ) \le \bar { d } _ { e } ( t ) ^ { 2 } \}$ . If the metric is state-dependent (as is the case for some CCMs we use), we can use $\hat { W } _ { c }$ (see Sec. 4.3) to obtain an ellipsoidal outer approximation of $\Omega _ { c } ( t ) \colon \Omega _ { c } ( t ) ~ \subseteq ~ \{ x ( t ) ~ \}$ | $( x ( t ) - x ^ { * } ( t ) ) ^ { \top } ( \bar { W } _ { c } ) ^ { - 1 } ( \bar { x ( t ) } - x ^ { * } ( t ) ) \leq \bar { d } _ { c } ( t ) ^ { 2 } \} \doteq \tilde { \Omega } _ { c } ( t )$ that can ease constraint checking. Thus, we can guarantee at planning time that in execution, $x ( t ) \in \tilde { \varOmega } _ { c } ( t )$ , and $\hat { x } ( t ) \in \tilde { \Omega } _ { c } ( t ) \oplus ( \Omega _ { e } ( t ) \ominus \{ x ( t ) \} )$ , where $A \ominus B \doteq \{ x - y \mid x \in A , y \in B \}$ . As (20) defines Ω for any nominal trajectory, we can quickly compute tubes along all edges in T . For instance, suppose we wish to extend from some node in $\tau , x _ { n } ^ { * } ( t _ { n } )$ , which satisfies $d _ { c } ^ { n } ( t _ { n } ) \leq \bar { d } _ { c } ^ { n } ( t _ { n } )$ and $d _ { e } ^ { n } ( t _ { n } ) \leq \bar { d } _ { e } ^ { n } ( t _ { n } )$ , to a candidate state $x _ { n } ^ { * } ( t _ { n } + t _ { p } )$ by applying control u over $[ t _ { n } , t _ { n } + t _ { p } )$ . Then, using (20), we can obtain $\bar { d } _ { c } ^ { n } ( t )$ and $\bar { d } _ { e } ^ { n } ( t )$ , for all $t \in [ t _ { n } , t _ { n } + t _ { p } )$ , and to remain collision-free in execution, we require the induced $\tilde { \Omega } _ { c } ( t ) \subseteq \chi _ { \mathrm { s a f e } } ;$ we check this in line 9 of our planner, Alg. 1. Here, we assume obstacles are inflated to account for robot geometry.

To remain collision-free at runtime, we must add extra constraints on $\tau$ to ensure the tubes are valid, as discussed in Sec. 4.2. We describe these constraints now, and prove they are sufficient in Thm. 2. At a high level, the estimated constants, CCM, and OCM must be valid for any x and xˆ that can be reached at runtime. Thus, in line $^ { 8 , }$ we ensure $d _ { c } ( t )$ and $d _ { e } ( t )$ remain less than c¯ and e¯ for all time, so that $L _ { \varDelta k }$ (15) is valid. In line 9, we ensure that $\Omega _ { c } ( t ) \subseteq D _ { c } \cap D _ { r } , \mathrm { i . e . }$ ., the system remains where the controller can contract x towards $x ^ { * }$ , and $\bar { \epsilon } _ { i }$ is valid. In line 10, we ensure xˆ remains in
