even be time-varying. To jointly estimate the state and the timevarying noise covariances, the variational Bayesian method is effective. In [18], a recursive adaptive Kalman filter was proposed by forming a separable variational approximation based on the inverse-Gamma distribution. Later, by combining variational Bayesian and Gaussian filtering methods, a variational Bayesian adaptive algorithm was designed in [19]. However, the above two filters cannot handle the case with unknown process noise covariances. Recently, by using inverse Wishart priors for the predicted error covariance matrix, a variational Bayesian adaptive Kalman filter was presented in [20]. Moreover, a new variational adaptive Kalman filter with the Gaussian-inverse-Wishart mixture distribution was developed in [21]. By modelling the probability density functions of state transition and measurement as Gaussian-Gamma mixture distributions, an adaptive Kalman filter was derived in [22]. Although these variational Bayesian algorithms have good filtering performances, they are costly in performing information transmission from a sensor to a remote estimator. It is therefore desirable to solve the above Bayesian filtering problem with lower transmission costs, which is the objective of the present paper.

Specifically, this paper addresses the event-triggered variational Bayesian estimation problem with unknown and time-varying noise covariances. Our main contributions are briefly summarized as follows:

1) For remote state estimation with unknown and time-varying noise covariances, this paper proposes an event-triggered variational Bayesian filter to jointly estimate the state and the noise covariances. Multiple inverse Wishart priors are utilized for estimating the predicted error covariance with weight combinations being adaptively inferred by the variational Bayesian method.   
2) With an event-triggered mechanism, the algorithm ensures excellent and robust performances for a wide range of unknown noise covariances with low communication overhead.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II presents preliminaries and the problem formulation. Section III describes the designed variational Bayesian filter. Section IV provides simulations to verify the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. Section V concludes the investigation.
