Thompson Sampling and its challenges: Thompson Sampling (TS) is one of the oldest strategies to balance the exploration vs. exploitation trade-off (Thompson, 1933). In TS, the agent samples a model from a distribution computed based on prior control input and observation pairs, and then takes the optimal action for this sampled model and updates the distribution based on its novel observation. Since it relies solely on sampling, this approach provides polynomial-time algorithms for adaptive control. Therefore, it is a promising alternative to overcome the computational burden faced in optimismic control design. For this reason, Abeille and Lazaric (2017, 2018) propose adaptive control algorithms using TS. In particular, Abeille and Lazaric (2018) provide the first TS-based adaptive control algorithm for LQRs that attains optimal regret of $\tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ . However, their result only holds for scalar stabilizable systems, since they were able to show that TS samples optimistic parameters with constant probability in only scalar systems. Further, they conjecture that this is true in multidimensional systems as well and TS-based adaptive control can provide optimal regret in multidimensional LQRs, and provide a simple numerical example to support their claims.

<table><tr><td>Work</td><td>Setting</td><td>Stabilizing Controller</td><td>Computation</td></tr><tr><td>(Abeille and Lazaric, 2018)</td><td>Stabilizable $^{\dagger}$ </td><td>Not Required</td><td>Feasible</td></tr><tr><td>(Mania et al., 2019)</td><td>Controllable</td><td>Required</td><td>Feasible</td></tr><tr><td>(Simchowitz and Foster, 2020)</td><td>Stabilizable</td><td>Required</td><td>Feasible</td></tr><tr><td>(Chen and Hazan, 2020)</td><td>Controllable</td><td>Not required</td><td>Feasible</td></tr><tr><td>(Lale et al., 2022)</td><td>Stabilizable</td><td>Not required</td><td>Infeasible</td></tr><tr><td>This work</td><td>Stabilizable</td><td>Not required</td><td>Feasible</td></tr></table>

Table 1: Comparison with the prior works that attain $\tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret on LQR, † = 1-dim LQRs
