# B. SOS Program Based CBF with Reinforcement Learning

The workflow of the CBF guiding DDPG control algorithm is shown in Fig. 1, which is akin to the original idea in [23] to push the agent’s action into a safe training architecture. In Fig. 1, we list these flowing elements into brackets and highlight the corresponding input of each factor computation.

We illustrate the core idea of CBF guiding RL control as,

$$a _ {t} = a _ {\theta_ {k}} ^ {R L} + \bar {a} _ {k} + a _ {t} ^ {C B F}, \tag {17}$$

where the final action $a _ { t }$ consists of a RL-based controller aRLθk , a previous deployed CBF controller a¯φ and a SOS $a _ { \theta _ { k } } ^ { R L }$ $\bar { a } _ { \phi }$ program based CBF controller $a _ { t } ^ { C B F }$ . A clear distinction of the subscript t and k is stated here: t denotes the step number of each policy iteration and k denotes the policy iteration number over the learning process.

More specifically, the first term in (17) is an action generated from a standard DDPG algorithm with parameter $\theta .$ The second term $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { a } _ { k } \ = \ \sum _ { i = 0 } ^ { k - 1 } a _ { i } ^ { \smile } } \end{array}$ Pk−1 aCBF demotes a global consideration of previous CBF controllers. Since it is impractical to compute the exact value of each CBF action aCBFi a $\dot { a } _ { i } ^ { C B F }$ t each step. Supported by the work of [23], we approximate this term as $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { \bar { a } } _ { \phi _ { k } } \approx \dot { \bar { a } _ { k } } = \sum _ { i = 0 } ^ { k - 1 } a _ { i } ^ { C B \bar { F } } } \end{array}$ Pk−1 aCBF , where i $\bar { a } _ { \phi _ { k } }$ denotes an output from the multilayer perceptron (MLP) with hyperparameters φ. Then, we fit the MLP and update $\phi _ { k }$ with $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = 0 } ^ { \bar { k } - 1 } a _ { i } ^ { C B F } \bigl ( s , a _ { \theta _ { 0 } } ^ { R L } , \dots , a _ { \theta _ { i - 1 } } ^ { R L } \bigr ) } \end{array}$ (s, aRLθ a θi−1 at each episode.

The third term $a _ { t } ^ { C B F }$ in (17) is a real-time value based on the deterministic value $s _ { t } , \ a _ { \theta _ { k } } ^ { R L } ( s _ { t } )$ aθk and $\bar { a } _ { \phi _ { k } } ( s _ { t } )$ . Although there exists an unknown term d in the system (1), we can still solve the dynamical safety in the approximated polynomial system (8). So, the optimal $a _ { t }$ in (17) can be computed by the SOS program below with deterministic $a _ { \theta _ { k } } ^ { R L }$ and a¯φk （2 $\bar { a } _ { \phi _ { k } }$
