We plan for 150 start/goals in $D ,$ taking 6 minutes on average (see Table 1 for statistics). Across all trials, CORRT ensures $x ( t )$ and ${ \hat { x } } ( t )$ stay inside the CORRT-computed tubes $\varOmega _ { c } ( t )$ and $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ , respectively, and reduces the initial tracking/estimation error by a factor of $> 6$ and 34. In contrast, B1 violates its computed $\varOmega _ { c } ( t )$ and $\varOmega _ { e } ( t )$ in 61/150 and 76/150 trials, respectively, fails to reduce error, and can be unsafe (see Fig. 7). Similarly, B2 violates its $\varOmega _ { c }$ in 142/150 trials. We show concrete examples of this in Fig. 7.C-.D; the plans in both cases exit $D _ { r }$ , moving to $p _ { x }$ and $p _ { z }$ values outside of the $[ - 4 . 5 , 4 . 5 ] \times [ 0 . 5 , 4 . 5 ]$ ] training range, leading to high $\hat { h } ^ { - 1 }$ error. The plans also take overly-aggressive turns that bring the velocities outside of $D _ { e }$ and $D _ { c }$ ; this further destabilizes the system, causing crashes in both cases. Overall, this experiment suggests the need to ensure that $\hat { h } ^ { - \top }$ , the CCM, and the OCM are correct, and that CORRT ensures this to guarantee safety for underactuated systems via RGB observations.

17D manipulation task We consider an acceleration-controlled 7DOF Kuka arm, where each joint follows double integrator dynamics (E.18), which is grasping an object (a rubber duck) with an unknown orientation relative to the end effector. We assume slight noise in the dynamics (E.18), $\bar { w } _ { x } = 0 . 0 1 2 5$ , due to the weight of the object. Our goal is to estimate the unknown orientation, represented as three Euler angles $\{ \phi _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { 3 }$ , using our observer $\left( 6 \right) .$ , given 80x80 RGB images (Fig. 1.C) of the arm and grasped object (see Fig. 1.C, inset); this makes $\boldsymbol { y } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 1 9 \bar { 2 } 0 0 }$ . We may also plan motions for the arm to improve the quality of the observations/state estimates, though in doing so, we also need to counteract the dynamics error. Our overall goal is to guarantee our final estimate of the relative orientation satisfies $| \phi _ { i } ( T ) - \hat { \phi } _ { i } ( T ) | \leq 0 . 1 , i = 1 , 2 , 3$ .
