Optimism-based control and its challenges: Optimism is one of the most prominent methods to effectively balance exploration and exploitation in adaptive control (Bittanti et al., 2006). In optimism-based control, an agent executes the optimal policy for the model with the lowest cost within a set of plausible models. In Abbasi-Yadkori and Szepesv´ari (2011); Faradonbeh et al. (2017), the authors use optimism-based control design to achieve $\tilde { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret with exponential dimension dependency. Both algorithms solve a non-convex optimization problem to find the optimistic controllers, which is an NP-hard problem in general (Agrawal, 2019). Unfortunately, this computational inefficiency severely limits their practicality. Recently, Abeille and Lazaric (2020) proposed a relaxation to the optimistic controller computation, which makes the optimism-based controllers efficient. However, their algorithm also requires a significantly well-refined model estimate and a given initial stabilizing policy, similar to CEC.

Restricted LQR settings in the prior works: In our work, we study the stabilizable multidimensional LQR setting. Stabilizability is necessary and sufficient condition to have a well-posed LQR control problem (Kailath et al., 2000). On the contrary, prior works usually consider the controllable LQR setting, which is a subclass of stabilizable LQRs (Cohen et al., 2019; Chen and Hazan, 2020). While the controllability condition simplifies the learning and control problem, it is also often violated in many real-world control systems (Friedland, 2012). Recently, Lale et al. (2022) proposed an adaptive control algorithm that does not need an initial stabilizing controller and achieves optimal regret in stabilizable LQRs. However, their method relies on optimism, and unfortunately inherits the aforementioned computational complexity of optimistic methods.
