# 2 Related Work

First, our work is related to and draws from contraction-based control and estimation. Contraction-based robust control [5, 22, 25] can ensure safety for uncertain systems using perfect state feedback, but the guarantees are lost if using imperfect state estimates.

Other work has studied contraction-based convergence guarantees for state estimation without control input, e.g., [3, 7, 26]; however, solving the OFMP requires jointly analyzing the controller and observer. Most closely related is [17], which studies output feedback control via contracting controllers and observers; however, it considers simple measurement models and does not derive the tracking tubes needed for the OFMP.

Our work also relates to control from rich observations. Differentiable filtering [12] learns state estimators from images in an end-to-end fashion, which while empirically successful, do not provide guarantees. Other work focuses on safety: [9] safely controls linear systems using learned observation maps; other methods use Control Barrier/Lyapunov Functions (CBF/CLFs) to guarantee safety for nonlinear systems by robustifying the CBF condition to measurement errors [6, 10]; however, these methods use simple sensor models or require that the entire state is invertible from one observation, precluding their use on states that must be estimated over time, e.g., velocities. In contrast, our method only seeks to invert a subset of the state, which is then used in a dynamic observer to estimate the unobserved states. Other work [8] combines CLFs and CBFs to safely reach goals from observations, but focuses on simpler LiDAR sensor models.
