# Appendix

In Appendix A, we provide the notation tables for the paper. In Appendix B, we provide the system identification and stabilization guarantees of TSAC. In particular, we give the proof of Lemma 4 and give the precise duration of the TS with improved exploration phase $T _ { w } .$ . In Appendix C, we show that under the joint event of $\hat { E } _ { t } \cap \tilde { E } _ { t }$ the state stays bounded as described in Lemma 5 with high probability. In Appendix E, we provide the precise regret decomposition and discuss the individual terms in the regret upper bound. In Appendix D, we provide the complete proof of Theorem 6, as well as the intermediate results discussed in the main text. Appendix F comprises the analysis of individual terms in the regret decomposition. In particular, Appendix F.1 studies $R _ { T _ { w } } ^ { \mathrm { e x p } }$ , Appendix F.2 studies $R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { R L S } }$ , Appendix F.3 studies $R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { m a r t } }$ , Appendix F.4 considers $R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { T S } }$ , Appendix F.5 bounds $R _ { T } ^ { \mathrm { g a p } }$ , and finally we combine these results to prove the regret upper bound of TSAC in Appendix F.6. In Appendix G, we give the technical theorems and lemmas used in the proofs. Finally, in Appendix H, we give the implementation details of all algorithms. Before proceeding the next section, we define the following high probability events which are standard in TS-based algorithms. First recall the RLS confidence ellipsoid given in Section 2.3:

$$\mathcal {E} _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{RLS}} (\delta) = \{\Theta : \| \Theta - \hat {\Theta} _ {t} \| _ {V _ {t}} \leq \beta_ {t} (\delta) \},$$

for $\beta _ { t } ( \delta ) = \sigma _ { w } \sqrt { 2 n \log ( ( T \operatorname* { d e t } ( V _ { t } ) ^ { 1 / 2 } ) / ( \delta \operatorname* { d e t } ( \mu I ) ^ { 1 / 2 } ) ) } + \sqrt { \mu S }$ . Further define

$$\mathcal {E} _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{TS}} (\delta) = \{\Theta : \| \Theta - \hat {\Theta} _ {t} \| _ {V _ {t}} \leq v _ {t} (\delta) \},$$

for $\upsilon _ { t } ( \delta ) = \beta _ { t } ( \delta ) n \sqrt { ( n + d ) \log ( n ( n + d ) / \delta ) }$ . Define the events

$$\hat {E} _ {t} = \{\forall s \leq t, \Theta_ {*} \in \mathcal {E} _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{RLS}} (\delta) \} \tag {16}\tilde {E} _ {t} = \{\forall s \leq t, \tilde {\Theta} _ {s} \in \mathcal {E} _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{TS}} (\delta) \}. \tag {17}$$
