# B. Bioinspired control design

Last section we presented the design process of sliding mode control for consensus formation control of multiple AUV systems, and the asymptotical stability is achieved even in the presence of unknown bounded disturbances, which actually relies on the fact that the nonlinear sign function is employed in SMC control law. Theoretically, this type of control is able to handle any matched bounded disturbances enforced on the system. However, the resulting high frequency nonsmooth control activities can hardly be realized in reality due to the physical limitations on actuators. Thus, the theoretical robust performance cannot always be obtained in applications; furthermore, the stability of overall system might be affected due to the excitation of high-frequency unmodeled dynamics. As a result, a neural dynamics-based control approach is proposed and studied to address this critical issue encountered in conventional sliding mode control.

In this section a neurodynamic model, termed shunting model, is employed to take place of the classic nonlinear sign function from which the chattering originates in conventional SMC scheme so that the use of discontinuous control is avoided and chattering phenomenon is completely vanishing. In fact, we will show that due to the integration with the shunting model many favorable properties can be obtained in the resulting formation system.

Shunting model is one of the most popular bioinspired dynamic models that was first proposed in the work of [33], which was built to try to characterize the adaptive behavior of membrane to the ever changing environment. Due to its desirable characteristics, in the past few decades it has been incorporated in various robotic systems to develop efficient algorithms for real-time path planning as well as feedback control [34]–[38]. The shunting equation can be described as follows

$$\dot {x} _ {i} = - a _ {i} x _ {i} + \left(b _ {i} - x _ {i}\right) s _ {i} ^ {+} - \left(d _ {i} + x _ {i}\right) s _ {i} ^ {-}, \tag {22}$$
