# A. Robustness and Performance Analysis

In this subsection, the robustness and performance of the adaptive control system are analyzed using the reference model described in Section III-B. For this purpose, for all possible DER combinations $A _ { n } \ ( n _ { \mathrm { m a x } } \ = \ 2 0 4 7 )$ , robustness and performance parameters are calculated by means of the Matlab functions allmargin, discmargin, and stepinfo [24]. The results of the adaptive control system are plotted in Fig. 9 as Boxplots, whereby outliers are neglected. The settling time, with a tolerance of 5%, and the rise time are in the singledigit seconds range, which demonstrates the control system’s fast response. Furthermore, the robustness parameters show a high reserve of delay, phase, and gain until stability limits are reached.

In Fig. 10, the same Boxplots are illustrated for the static controller. The static controller uses one pair of control parameters for all combinations of actuators. The static control parameters are chosen to meet the same requirements as the adaptive controller (disk margin $\geq 1 . 5$ and overshooting $< 1 \% )$ for all combinations $A _ { n } .$ . The comparison of the performance parameters rise time and settling time illustrates the potential of the adaptive control system. Through the conservative setting of the control parameters $( K _ { \mathrm { P } } = 5 . 3 8 { \mathrm { E } } - 9 .$ , $K _ { \mathrm { I } } = 8 . 1 8 \mathrm { E } - 9 )$ , the static controller’s settling time and rise time are several times higher. At this point, it should be noted that the control parameters seem to be very small. The reason is that the control loop is designed in SI units, so that the signal $P _ { \mathrm { Y } }$ is multiplied by the installed power $P _ { \mathrm { i n s t } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ in the units watt (see Eq. 8). The static controller’s conservative design increase all three margins. The margins are unnecessarily high at the expense of the performance.
