The flow of global mean fields $\{ z _ { t } ^ { i , n } \ t \in [ 0 , \infty ) , \ i = 1 : n \}$ relies on the sectional information $g _ { i , \bullet } ^ { n }$ which represents the view of the network interactions from agents in cluster $C _ { l } , \ l \in \{ 1 , . . . , n \}$ . From the point of view of an agent $A _ { i } ,$ all individuals residing in cluster $C _ { l }$ are symmetric and their average generates an overall impact of that cluster.

Consider the state evolution of the collection of N agents $\mathcal { A } _ { i } , 1 \le i \le N < \infty$ , specified by the set of N controlled linear stochastic differential equations (SDEs) over an infinite horizon below. For each agent $A _ { i }$ , its state denoted $x ^ { i } ( \cdot ) \in \mathbb { R }$ evolves according to the SDE :

$$d x _ {t} ^ {i} = b u _ {t} ^ {i} d t + \sigma d w _ {t} ^ {i}, \forall t \geq 0, \tag {1}$$

where $u ^ { i } ( \cdot ) \in \mathbb { R }$ denotes the agent’s $A _ { i }$ control input. For simplicity, we assume that the initial state of agent $A _ { i }$ is $\mathbf { \bar { \Phi } } _ { X _ { 0 } ^ { i } } \sim \mathcal { N } ( m ^ { l } , \nu ^ { 2 } )$ , whenever $A _ { i }$ lies in cluster $C _ { l } , \ l \ \in$ $\left\{ 1 , . . , n \right\}$ . Let the coefficients $a , b , m ^ { l } \ l = 1 : n , \in \mathbb { R } , \nu > 0 .$ , $r > 0 , \sigma \geq 0$ , and $\{ w ^ { i } , i = 1 , . . . , N \}$ be a collection of independent Brownian motions defined on a probability space (Ω, F, P) satisfying the usual conditions.

We consider a scenario where each agent $A _ { i }$ aims to minimize infinite horizon quadratic costs

$$J ^ {N} (u ^ {i}, u ^ {- i}) := \mathbb {E} \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} e ^ {- \rho t} \big [ r (u _ {t} ^ {i}) ^ {2} + \big (x _ {t} ^ {i} - z _ {t} ^ {i, n} \big) ^ {2} \big ] d t, (2)$$

where $1 \le i \le N , \rho > 0$ and $u ^ { - i }$ denotes the controls of all agents other than $A _ { i }$ .

Definition 1. (Nash Equilibrium). A collection of controls, denoted $( u ^ { i * } , \dot { \ i } = 1 , . . . , N )$ , is a Nash equilibrium if and only if any unilateral deviation from $\hat { u } ^ { i * }$ to any other control ui yields a higher cost, that is,

$$J _ {i} ^ {N} (u ^ {i *}, u ^ {- i *}) \leq J _ {i} ^ {N} (u ^ {i}, u ^ {- i *}), \forall i = 1,..., N. \tag {3}$$

Finding a Nash equilibrium in networked population games gets increasingly complex as both the cluster size and the network size grow. In the situation where the network describing the interaction between the agents is uniform (i.e. fully symmetric), the theory of Mean Field Games provides satisfactory answers to this problem (see Huang et al. (2006) Lasry and Lions (2006)).
