# 1.2 Literature Survey

Sliding mode control has its roots in (continuous-time) relay control. It originated in the Soviet Union somewhere in the late 1950s [30-31], but was not published outside the Soviet Union until the publication by Utkin [34]. After this publication, the list of publications concerning SMC grew rapidly and SMC obtained a solid position in the field of both linear and nonlinear control theory. To obtain a good overview of continuous-time sliding mode we refer to the standard work of Utkin [44]. Various other good publications are DeCarlo, Hung, Edwards respectively [35, 36, 45,], where the latter publications describe several practical applications. Sliding mode control for nonlinear systems are reported by Slotine, and by Lu and Spurgeon [42, 45]. Chattering elimination is a hot topic for sliding mode control design. Significant contribution has been made by Bartolini, Levant and Fridman [59-61]. Output feedback is recognized one of the effective approaches for tracking error elimination. It has been combined with sliding mode control [75]. Besides the continuous sliding mode control scheme, discrete time sliding mode has been deeply investigated. Systems with time delay are treated with sliding mode control [74]. In recent years, a so-called “higher order sliding mode (HOSM)” has been proposed by Emelyanov, Levant and Gao, for nonlinear sliding mode design [32, 57-58]. So-called “twisting controller” and “super-twisting controller” are regarded as the most popular types of higher order sliding mode controllers [46]. The structure of the controller and parameter selection rules of such controllers is developed and the benefit of this second or higher order actuator is detailed in the reference. It is concluded that there is opportunity for reduction of the amplitude of chattering in the control signal when using twisting as a filter algorithm, compared with first order sliding mode control. Levant has also proposed a higher order sliding mode observer design [46].
