However, these approaches do not focus on the stability of the closed-loop system. (Dean et al., 2017) describes a robust controller design which seeks to minimize the worst-case performance of the system given the error in the estimation process.√ They show a sample complexity analysis guaranteeing convergence rate of $\mathcal { O } ( 1 / \sqrt { N } )$ to the optimal policy for the given LQR, N being the number of rollouts. More recently, certainity equivalence (Mania et al., 2019) was shown to achieve√ $\mathcal { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret for LQRs. Further, (Cassel et al., 2020) show that it is possible to achieve O(log T ) regret if either one of the√ matrices A or B are known to the learner, and also provided a lower bound showing that $\Omega ( { \sqrt { T } } )$ regret is unavoidable when both are unknown.

The model-free approach on the other hand, bypasses model estimation and directly learns the value function of the unknown MDP. While the most popular among these have historically been Q-learning, TD-learning (Sutton & Barto, 2018) and SARSA (Rummery & Niranjan, 1994), algorithms based on gradient-based policy optimization have been gaining considerable attention of late, following their stunning success with playing the game of Go which has long been viewed as the most challenging of classic games for artificial intelligence owing to its enormous search space and the difficulty of evaluating board positions and moves. (Silver et al., 2016) and more recently (Singh et al., 2017) use policy gradient method combined with a neural network representation to beat human experts. Indeed, the Policy Gradient method has become the cornerstone of modern RL and given birth to an entire class of highly efficient policy search algorithms such as TRPO (Schulman et al., 2015), PPO(Schulman et al., 2017), and MADDPG (Lowe et al., 2020).
