# A. Summary of stabilizing reinforcement learning

Reinforcement learning is an optimal control method that uses adaptation imitating living beings in their natural environments [1]–[3]. Its applications range from robotics [4], [5] to games such as Go, chess, shogi (also known as Japanese chess) [6], even complex ones such as StarCraft II [7].

Reinforcement learning can be model-based or model-free, online or offline etc. Online here means being able to learn during exploitation, as opposed running training procedures beforehand. Offline, on contrary, refers to learning by prior

The authors are with the Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, emails: {Grigory.Yaremenko, p.osinenko}@skoltech.ru. The authors are thankful to Ksenia Makarova for supporting the experimental studies of this work.

Pavel Osinenko is the corresponding author.

optimization of an agent that is only deployed once the learning is finalized.

Contemporary reinforcement learning methods are usually understood in the context of approximating (learning) the costto-go function J (or Q-function, or advantage function A or something else related to the cost-to-go) via (deep) neural networks. The core problem with such an approach is that one cannot know how good the chosen neural network topology is capable of approximating the cost-to-go function.

Although it is known that the optimizer (the optimal policy) has certain desirable properties, e. g., it keeps the system stable, an optimizer resulting from an approximate cost-togo function has in general no guarantees for the closed loop, first and foremost in terms of stability.

Measures were and are taken to provide the said guarantees. These roughly go in the following three directions:

1) introduction of a filter to discard unsuitable actions. Such a filter may be human-based [8] or designed on the grounds of formal verification [9];   
2) merging of reinforcement learning with (stabilizing) model-predictive control [10]–[15];   
3) Lyapunov-based reinforcement learning [16]–[18].

A detailed survey on these methods can be found in [19].
