where T is the time horizon of interest and $\gamma$ is a coefficient balancing control cost and frequency deviation. Here $p = p ^ { \mathrm { n o m } } + \Delta p$ , where $p ^ { \mathrm { n o m } }$ is the nominal power injection and $\Delta p$ accounts for the disturbance. We assume $\Delta p$ vanishes in finite time, and hence only affects the transient behavior. Note that we do not make any assumption about a bound for the disturbance $\Delta p$ , and consequently we do not impose saturation limits in (5) for u. The term $\gamma \Vert \omega - \omega ^ { \infty } \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } \Vert ^ { 2 }$ in the objective function penalizes deviation from the equilibrium frequency, and can be interpreted as a soft constraint to provide approximate transient safety. Instead, the safety bound in (5d) is a hard constraint to strictly guarantee transient safety by prohibiting the frequency nadir going outside the safe region. We also require the designed controllers to be distributed, in the sense that each bus can implement $u _ { i } ( x , p )$ using its local information and the information from its neighboring buses and incident transmission lines.

The infinite-dimensional and nonlinear nature of the optimization (5) makes it hard to solve. Reinforcement learning (RL) is an attractive approach to such a problem by employing the data from system executions to train a policy that maps states to input actions. This results in a learned controller with optimized performance for the given data, but does not guarantee the stability and safety of the closed-loop system. Instead, model-based methods leverage knowledge of the dynamics to synthesize feedback controllers that render the system stable and safe, but have trouble dealing with the infinite-dimensional nature of the optimization. The advantages and limitations of RL and model-based approaches motivate us to combine them by identifying conditions on the controller design that ensure stability and safety (cf. Section 4) and incorporating these conditions in the RL policy search (cf. Section 5).
