# 4.2. Constraint ensuring asymptotic stability

Here we derive a constraint on the control design that ensures asymptotic stability. We approach this by considering an energy function and restricting the input so that its time-derivative along the closed-loop dynamics is nonpositive. Following [5, 20], consider

$$V (\lambda , \omega) \triangleq \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} M _ {i} \left(\omega_ {i} - \omega^ {\infty}\right) ^ {2} + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {m} \left[ Y _ {b} \right] _ {j, j} a \left(\lambda_ {j}\right), \tag {7}$$

where $a \left( \lambda _ { j } \right) \triangleq \cos { \lambda _ { j } ^ { \infty } } - \cos { \lambda _ { j } } - \lambda _ { j } \sin { \lambda _ { j } ^ { \infty } } + \lambda _ { j } ^ { \infty }$ sin $\lambda _ { j } ^ { \infty }$ . The derivative of V along the dynamics (3) is given by

$$\dot {V} (\lambda , \omega) = - \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} D _ {i} \left(\omega_ {i} - \omega^ {\infty}\right) ^ {2} + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} \left(\omega_ {i} - \omega^ {\infty}\right) u _ {i} (x, p). \tag {8}$$

To ensure $\dot { V } ( \lambda , \omega ) \leq 0$ , one can simply ask $u _ { i } ( x , p )$ to satisfy

$$- D _ {i} (\omega_ {i} - \omega^ {\infty}) ^ {2} + (\omega_ {i} - \omega^ {\infty}) u _ {i} (x, p) \leq 0, \tag {9}$$

for each $i \in \mathcal { T }$ . This stability condition is convenient, from a network perspective, because it provides an individually decoupled constraint for each bus. This is essentially the approach taken in our previous work [5] and also in [9]. Nevertheless, one can see that it is over-constraining, as the sum of all terms in (8) is what needs to be nonpositive, not each individual summand. One could envision scenarios where some buses can deal with larger disturbances than others. In such cases, it would be advantageous to allow less capable buses to violate (9) up to a level that can be compensated by more capable buses to still make the overall sum (8) nonpositive. Leveraging this insight, the next result generalizes the stability condition in [5, Lemma 4.1].

Lemma 4.2. (Sufficient condition for local asymptotic stability): Consider system (3) under condition (4). Further suppose that for every $i \in \mathcal { T } , u _ { i } ( x , p ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { m + n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } $ R is Lipschitz in x. Let $\begin{array} { r } { c \triangleq \operatorname* { m i n } _ { \lambda \in \partial \Gamma _ { \mathrm { c l } } } V \left( \lambda , \omega ^ { \infty } \mathbf { 1 } _ { n } \right) } \end{array}$ and
