The control laws governing dynamical system need to have nonlinear and time varying behaviour with various uncertainties, disturbances and parasitic dynamics, the influence of which has to be carefully taken into account when considering the performance of the system [1-2].
System model imprecision or discrepancies may come from actual uncertainty about the plant or from the purposeful choice of a simplified representation of the system’s dynamics.
These mismatches may be due to various factors.
These modelling inaccuracies can have strong adverse effects on control systems.
The principle objective of control law is to generate a control or regulation system which is robust to external disturbances and model uncertainty.
The control system has seen development ranging from the ubiquitous PID controller through to high performance controllers [4].
PID controllers are one of the most popular and simple controller used by the engineers mainly in process industries, automatic control etc.
Adding to the value of PID’s are optimal and robust controllers [10-18].
These control algorithms are independent of the model, linear in nature and their parameter has to be adjusted to obtain an acceptable response characteristic.
Recently, there has been a lot of activity in the design of the so-called intelligent control techniques such as fuzzy logic and neural network [5-9], which rely on learning the input-output behavior of the plant to be controlled.
Superseding them are the mature mathematically model based controllers in the area of nonlinear control which yield high performance, near world tests of its classes in the aerospace industry.
Instead of directly applying the intelligent techniques, their role has been reversed to processes which are ill defined, nonlinear, complex, time varying and stochastic [17].
One of the most important approaches for dealing with model uncertainty is robust control [12].
The typical structure of a robust controller is composed of a nominal part, similar to a feedback control law, and additional terms aimed at dealing with model uncertainty.
Also, nonlinear behaviour is sometimes introduced in feedback control as they can provide for even better performance than the linear ones.
