Boosting. Agarwal et al. (2020b) attempts to frame and solve policy optimization over an improper class by boosting a given class of controllers. This work, however, is situated in the context of non-stochastic control and assumes perfect knowledge of (i) the memory-boundedness of the MDP, and (ii) the state noise vector in every round, which amounts to essentially knowing the MDP transition dynamics. We work in the stochastic MDP setting and assume no access to the MDP’s transition kernel. Further, it is assumed in (Agarwal et al., 2020b) that all the atomic controllers available are stabilizing which, when working with an unknown MDP, is a very strong assumption to make. While making no such assumptions on our atomic controller class; we show our algorithms can begin with provably unstable controllers and yet succeed in stabilizing the system (Sec. 2.2 and 6).

Options framework. Our work differs from the options framework (Barreto et al., 2017; Sutton et al., 1999) for hierarchical RL in spirit, in that we allow for each controller to be applied in each round rather than waiting for a subtask to complete. The current work deals with finding an optimal mixture of basic controllers to solve a particular task. However, if we allow for a state-dependent choice of controllers, then the methods proposed can be generalized for solving hierarchical RL tasks.

Ensemble policy-based RL. Our current work deals with accessing given (possibly separately trained) controllers as black-boxes and learning to combine them optimally. In contrast, in ensemble RL approaches (Maclin & Opitz, 2011; Xiliang et al., 2018; Wiering & van Hasselt, 2008) the base policies are learnt on the fly (e.g., Q-learning, SARSA) by the agent whereas the combining rule is fixed upfront (e.g., majority voting, rank voting, Boltzmann multiplication, etc.). Moreover, the base policies have access to the new system in Ensemble RL, which gives them a distinct advantage. Our method can serve as a meta-RL adaptation framework with theoretical guarantees which can use such pre-trained models to combine them optimally. To the best of our knowledge, ensemble RL works like (Xiliang et al., 2018; Wiering & van Hasselt, 2008) do not provide theoretical guarantees on the learnt combined policy. Our work on the other hand provides a firm theoretical as well as empirical basis for the methods we propose.
