# 6.1. Simulations with Softmax PG

We now discuss the results of implementing Softmax PG (Alg 1) on the cartpole system and on the constrained queueing examples described in Sec. 2. Since neither value functions nor value gradients for these problems are available in closed-form, we modify SoftMax PG (Algorithm 1) to make it generally implementable using a combination of (1) rollouts to estimate the value function of the current (improper) policy and (2) simultaneous perturbation stochastic approximation (SPSA) to estimate its value gradient. Specifically, we use the approach in (Flaxman et al., 2005), noting that for a function $V : \mathbb { R } ^ { M }  \mathbb { R }$ , the gradient, ∇V , $\begin{array} { r } { \nabla V ( \theta ) \approx \mathbb { E } \left[ \left( V ( \theta + \alpha . u ) - V ( \theta ) \right) u \right] . \frac { M } { \alpha } } \end{array}$ , where the perturbation parameter α $\in ( 0 , 1 )$ and u is sampled uniformly randomly from the unit sphere.This expression requires evaluation of the value function at the point $\left( \theta + \alpha . u \right)$ . Since the value function may not be explicitly computable, we employ rollouts, for its evaluation. The full algorithm, GradEst, can be found in the appendix (Alg. 6).

Note that all of the simulations shown have been averaged over $\# \mathbb { L } = 2 0$ trials, and the mean and standard deviations plotted. We also show empirically that $c _ { t }$ in Theorem 4.2 is indeed strictly positive. In the sequel, for every trial $l \in$ $[ \# \mathtt { L } ]$ , let $\bar { c } _ { t } ^ { l } : = \operatorname * { i n f } _ { 1 \leqslant s \leqslant t m \in \{ m ^ { \prime } \in [ M ] : \pi ^ { * } ( m ^ { \prime } ) > 0 \} } \pi _ { \theta _ { s } } ( m )$ , and $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { c } _ { t } : = \frac { 1 } { \# \mathbb { L } } \sum _ { l = 1 } ^ { \# \mathbb { L } } \bar { c } _ { t } ^ { l } } \end{array}$ $\bar { c } ^ { T } : = \operatorname* { m i n } _ { l \in [ \# \mathbb { L } ] } \operatorname* { m i n } _ { 1 \leqslant t \leqslant T } \bar { c } _ { t } ^ { l }$ . That isbabilities $\{ \bar { c } _ { t } ^ { l } \} _ { t = 1 , l = 1 } ^ { T , \# \mathrm { L } }$ 1,# that the algorithm puts, over rounds ${ \mathrm { ~ \small ~ 1 ~ : ~ } } t$ in trial l, on controllers with $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot ) > 0 . \ \{ \bar { c } _ { t } \} _ { t = 1 } ^ { T }$ represents its average across the different trials, and $\bar { c } ^ { T }$ is the minimum such probability that the algorithm learns across all rounds $1 \leqslant$ $t \leqslant T$ and across trials.
