# 5. Actor-Critic based Improper Learning

Softmax PG follows a gradient ascent scheme to solve the optimization problem (1), but is limited by the requirement of the true gradient in every round. To address situations where this might be unavailable, we resort to a Monte-carlo sampling based procedure (see appendix: Alg 6), which may lead to high variance. In this section, we take an alternative approach and provide a new algorithm based on an actor-critic framework for solving our problem. Actor-Critic methods are well-known to have low variance than their Monte-carlo counterparts (Konda & Tsitsiklis, 2000).

We begin by proposing modifications to the standard Q-function and advantage function definitions. Recall that we wish to solve for the following optimization problem: ma $\mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } _ { \pi \in \mathcal { T } _ { \mathbf { s o f t } } } \mathbb { E } _ { s \sim \rho } [ V ^ { \pi } ( s ) ]$ , where π is some distribution over the M base controllers. Let $\begin{array} { r } { \tilde { Q } ^ { \pi } ( s , m ) : = \sum _ { a \in \mathcal { A } } K _ { m } ( s , a ) Q ^ { \pi } ( s , a ) } \end{array}$ . Let $\tilde { A } ^ { \pi } ( s , m ) : =$ $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { a \in \mathcal { A } } K _ { m } ( s , a ) \tilde { A } ^ { \pi } ( s , a ) = \sum _ { a \in \mathcal { A } } K _ { m } ( s , a ) Q ^ { \pi } ( s , a ) - } \end{array}$ $V ^ { \pi } ( s )$ , where $Q ^ { \pi }$ and $A ^ { \pi }$ are the usual action-value functions and advantage functions respectively. We also define the new reward function $\begin{array} { r l } { \tilde { r } ( s , m ) } & { { } : = } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { a \in \mathcal { A } } K _ { m } ( s , a ) r ( s , a ) } \end{array}$ and a new transition kernel $\begin{array} { r } { P ( s ^ { \prime } | \tilde { s } , m ) : = \sum _ { a \in \cal A } K _ { m } ( s , a ) P ( s ^ { \prime } | s , a ) } \end{array}$ . Then, following the distribution π over the controllers induces a Markov Chain on the state space S. Define $\nu _ { \pi } ( s , m )$ as the statecontroller visitation measure induced by the policy π: $\begin{array} { r } { \nu _ { \pi } ( s , m ) : = ( 1 - \gamma ) \sum _ { t \geqslant 0 } \gamma ^ { t } \mathbb { P } ^ { \pi } ( s _ { t } = s , m _ { t } = m ) \ : = \ : } \end{array}$ $d _ { \rho } ^ { \pi } ( s ) \pi ( m )$ . With these definitions, we have the following variant of the policy-gradient theorem.

Lemma 5.1 (Modified Policy Gradient Theorem).
