The objective of this thesis is to survey the theoretical backgrounds of sliding mode control. Sliding mode control comprise of two steps: Sliding surface design and subsequently control law design for the sliding hyper plane manifold. In this thesis, an integral term is included in the sliding surface definition that results in a PID-type sliding surface [39-41]. This thesis discusses and investigates the advantages of such surface design using simulations. Proceeding on that, PI-like sliding surface is used for second order sliding mode control with compensation schemes to exploit its advantages and provides an effective solution to the above cited drawbacks, providing some original contribution to the thesis. Higher order sliding mode control was discussed by Levant in the 1987 in his Phd work. In normal sliding mode, the sliding variable is kept at the origin but its derivative may be non-zero. For higher order sliding mode, first and the higher order derivatives of the sliding variable are also forced to zero during sliding mode, meaning higher precision [57-58]. With a higher order sliding mode controller, the amplitude of the chattering effect can be dramatically reduced. Coming to the second part of sliding mode i.e. control law design, implemented using equivalent control law and reaching control laws [35]. Reaching control laws are then modified for a better response of sliding mode control design and are presented in the thesis with simulations and mathematical analysis. In particular, Sliding mode control methodology using PI-type sliding surface is applied to second order systems. Apart from the robustness features against different kind of uncertainties and disturbances, the proposed control schemes have the advantage of producing low complexity control laws compared to other robust control approaches (H∞, LMI, adaptive control, etc.) which appears particularly suitable in the considered contexts.
