# 1.1 Overview

Non-linear dynamical systems are considered as an interesting topic of investigation as all real systems are always nonlinear and linearizing them can impose too strict requirements on their working range or the feasible results. So, nonlinearity can sometimes be intently introduced in the feedback control loop as nonlinear systems can provide better performance than the linear ones and can accurately control the systems behavior,. The presence of uncertainties and disturbances can further add complexity to the control of real dynamical systems as it is impossible to avoid them due to modeling uncertainties and environmental effect. The effects of these nonlinearities, uncertainties and disturbances have to be clearly taken into account since they can worsen the performance or even cause instability. Nonlinearity is a common behavior exists in all the processes and it disturbs in the performance of the system. Special attention is required to design a controller for non-linear system. The nonlinearity can be understood through the following forms like Static Non-linearity, Dynamic Non-linearity, Intentional Non-linearity and Incidental Non-linearity. The behavior of the non-linear system can also be explained by following properties

 Multiple equilibrium points.   
 Limit cycles: Oscillations of fixed amplitude and fixed period without external excitation.   
 Sub harmonic, harmonic oscillations for constant frequency inputs.   
 Chaos:

randomness, complicated steady state behaviors.   
 System output is extremely sensitive to initial conditions.   
 Unpredictability of the system output.
