Remark 11: An immediate hint on the practical implementation of the approach should be made. As Theorem 2 shows, the problem (9) is feasible at every step, up until the system’s state reaches a certain neighbourhood of the origin. Thus, one does not necessarily have to run constrained optimization algorithms. Instead, one might perform unconstrained optimization and check constraint (C1)–(C4) satisfaction afterwards and reset to the initial admissible solution in case of violation. In this case, the scheme is somewhat reminiscent of the supervisor-based stabilizing reinforcement learning. In fact, one can just add penalty terms involving the constraints to the loss function. These considerations can help speed up the calculations.

Remark 12: A remark should be made about the minimal inference aspect. The constraints (C1)–(C4) in general restrict the learning of the agent, which is evident. However, it must be pointed out that if $\varepsilon _ { 4 } , ~ \bar { \nu } , ~ \alpha _ { \mathrm { l o w } }$ and $\alpha _ { \mathrm { u p } }$ are appropriately configured, the optimal critic weights will not be excluded from the set of attainable critic weights. Such a configuration, however may fail to exist if the magnitude of noise is too large, i. e., $\sigma _ { \mathrm { m a x } } \geq \frac { s ^ { * } \leq \| x \| \leq S ^ { * } } { \mathrm { L i p } _ { \hat { r } } \mathrm { L i p } _ { \gamma } }$ s∗≤kxk≤S∗LipJˆLipZ , where $\rho ^ { * }$ is the optimal policy. The latter can however be remedied by introducing a scaling factor for the cost itself, $ . \mathbf { e } . , r ( \cdot , \cdot ) \gets a r ( \cdot , \cdot )$ , where $a > 1$ . This would obviously yield an equivalent problem that can be tuned appropriately.

We can now state the major results about the CALF framework. The present paper proves that imposing the aforementioned constraints will ensure that the system’s state $X _ { t }$ will eventually reach a certain neighbourhoods of the origin $B _ { s ^ { * } }$ . The latter radius $s ^ { * }$ is given by:

$$s ^ {*} = \inf \left\{s \in \mathbb {R} \mid \inf _ {s \leq \| x \| \leq S ^ {*}} \nu (x) > 6 \operatorname{Lip} _ {j} \sigma_ {\max} \operatorname{Lip} _ {Z} \right\}, \tag {11}$$
