$$\| x (t) \| < \| \varphi \| _ {\tau} ^ {\frac {\eta}{\lambda + \eta}} \left(2 L _ {1} \bar {M}\right) ^ {\frac {\lambda}{\lambda + \eta}} < \varepsilon$$

for $t \geq t _ { 0 } .$ , that is, the closed-loop system (3) is stable. It can be seen that  is given explicitly since $\delta _ { 1 } , ~ \bar { \delta } _ { 2 }$ , and $\delta _ { 3 }$ are specifically defined.

Remark 2. The upper bound $\alpha _ { 1 } ^ { - 1 } ( M e ^ { - \eta ( t - t _ { 0 } ) } )$ of the state norm in (14) guarantees attractivity of the closed-loop system. However, $M = \alpha _ { 2 } ( \Vert \varphi ( 0 ) \Vert ) + \alpha _ { 3 } ( \Vert \varphi \Vert _ { \tau } ) + \bar { M }$ depends not only on the initial function  but also on parameter a in M. Since ¯ M is independent of the initial function ¯ $\varphi ,$ the stability criterion of the event-triggered control system couldn’t be derived from this upper bound solely. The role of Lemma 2 is to provide another bound in (17) for ∥x∥. Combining these two bounds in (18) or (23) allows stability analysis for the closed-loop system. Lemma 2 is different from the existing Halanay-type inequalities (see, e.g., [3], [4]) in the following sense. In the existing Halanay-type inequalities, the Dini derivative $\mathrm { D } ^ { + } g ( t )$ is bounded by the sum of a function of $g ( t )$ and a function of ∥gt∥r, while in Lemma 2 we bound $\mathrm { D } ^ { + } g ( t )$ by a linear combination of $g ( t _ { 0 } )$ and $\| g _ { t } \| _ { r }$ . This major difference in the dependence of g at the initial time $t _ { 0 }$ allows the estimation of the state bound over each interval $[ t _ { i } , t _ { i + 1 } )$ since the control input is unchanged during two consecutive event times.

For quadratic forms of $V _ { 1 }$ , the inverse of the K class function $\alpha _ { 1 }$ in Assumption II.1(i) is not locally Lipschitz in its domain. Hence, Theorem 1 cannot be applied for such types of Lyapunov candidates. Nevertheless, the following result allows us to use quadratic forms of Lyapunov function as $V _ { 1 }$ in the Lyapunov candidate V.

Theorem 2. Suppose all the conditions of Theorem 1 are satisfied, and the Lipschitz assumption on $\alpha _ { 1 } ^ { - 1 }$ is replaced by the following condition:

• $\alpha _ { 1 } ^ { - 1 }$ is Lipschitz on any closed and bounded sub-interval of $( 0 , \infty )$ .

Then the closed-loop system (3) with the event times determined by (6) is globally asymptotically stable and does not exhibit Zeno behavior.
