Despite its excellent empirical performance, not much was known about theoretical guarantees for this approach until recently. There is now a growing body of promising results showing convergence rates for PG algorithms over finite state-action MDPs (Agarwal et al., 2020a; Shani et al., 2020; Bhandari & Russo, 2019; Mei et al., 2020), where the parameterization is over the entire space of state -action pairs, i.e., $\mathbb { R } ^ { S \times A }$ . In particular, (Bhandari & Russo, 2019) show that projected gradient descent does not suffer from spurious local optima on the simplex, (Agarwal et al., 2020a) show that the with softmax parameterization PG converges to the global optima asymptotically. (Shani et al., 2020) show a $\mathcal { O } ( 1 / \sqrt { t } )$ convergence rate for mirror descent. (Mei et al., 2020) show that with softmax policy gradient convergence to the global optima occurs at a rate $\mathcal { O } ( 1 / t )$ and at $\mathcal { O } ( e ^ { - t } )$ with entropy regularization.

We end this section noting once again that all of the above works concern proper learning. Improper learning, on the other hand, has been separately studied in statistical learning theory in the IID setting (Daniely et al., 2014; 2013). In this framework, which is also called Representation Independent learning, the learning algorithm is not restricted to output a hypothesis from a given set of hypotheses. We note that improper learning has not been studied in RL literature to the best of our knowledge.
