In this paper, we propose a novel observer for a class of nonlinear systems that encompasses both compartmental and networked epidemic models. The form of the proposed observer combines ideas of feedforward output injection and innovation term in the nonlinearity, which were originally proposed by Luenberger [17], [18] for linear systems and by Arcak and Kokotovi´c [19] for nonlinear systems, respectively. Using the Lyapunov stability analysis and local Lipschitz property of epidemic processes, we provide a sufficient condition for the asymptotic convergence of estimation error to zero in terms of an algebraic Riccati inequality (ARI), which can be equivalently formulated as a linear matrix inequality (LMI) feasibility condition. Under the assumption of generalized Lipschitz property, we provide a less restrictive ARI as a sufficient condition of the error convergence. The proposed observer is easy to design and provides extra leverage to minimize the influence of nonlinearity in the estimation error dynamics. Such a leverage is not possible in the Luenbergerlike observer [20]–[22] and cannot be fully exploited in the Arcak-Kokotovi´c observer [19].

We use standard notations throughout the paper; nonetheless, we clarify wherever an ambiguity can arise. The dependence of signals on time variable t is sometimes omitted for brevity, and it should be considered as implicit. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In Section II, we describe motivation, problems, and challenges in epidemic monitoring and control. After stating the problem in Section III, we briefly review the existing observer design techniques for nonlinear systems and highlight difficulties in using them for epidemic processes in Section IV. The proposed observer design is presented in Section V. Finally, Section VI and VII provide simulation results and concluding remarks, respectively.
