• We corroborate our theory using extensive simulation studies. For the PG based method we use GradEst in two different settings (a) the well-known CartPole system and (b) a scheduling task in a constrained queueing system. We discuss both these settings in detail in Sec. 2, where we also demonstrate the power of our improper learning approach in finding control policies with provably good performance. In our experiments (see Sec. 6), we eschew access to exact value gradients and instead rely on a combination of roll outs and SPSA to estimate them. For the actor-critic based learner, we demonstrate simulations on various queuing theoretic simulations using the natural-actor-critic based ACIL. All the results show that our proposed algorithms quickly converge to the correct mixture of available atomic controllers.

Related Work (brief). We provide a quick survey of relevant literature. A detailed survey is deferred to the appendix.

Policy gradient. The basic policy gradient method has become a cornerstone of modern RL and given birth to an entire class of highly efficient policy search techniques such as CPI (Kakade & Langford, 2002), TRPO (Schulman et al., 2015), PPO (Schulman et al., 2017), and MADDPG (Lowe et al., 2020). A growing body of recent work shows promising results about convergence rates for PG algorithms over finite state-action MDPs (Agarwal et al., 2020a; Shani et al., 2020; Bhandari & Russo, 2019; Mei et al., 2020), where the parameterization is over the entire space of state -action pairs, i.e., RS×A. These advances, however, are partially offset by negative results such as those in Li et al. (2021), which show that the convergence time is Ω $\left( \left| S \right| ^ { 2 ^ { 1 / ( 1 - \gamma ) } } \right)$ , where S is the state space of the MDP and γ the discount factor, even with exact gradient knowledge.

Improper learning. The above works concern proper learning, where the policy search space is usually taken to be the set of all deterministic policies for an MDP. Improper learning, on the other hand, has been studied in statistical learning theory for the IID setting (Daniely et al., 2014; 2013). In this representation independent learning framework, the learning algorithm is not restricted to output a hypothesis from a given set of hypotheses.
