Gao, B. and Pavel, L. On the properties of the softmax function with application in game theory and reinforcement learning. ArXiv, abs/1704.00805, 2017.   
Gopalan, A. and Mannor, S. Thompson Sampling for Learning Parameterized Markov Decision Processes. In Proceedings of The 28th Conference on Learning Theory, volume 40 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 861–898, Paris, France, 03–06 Jul 2015. PMLR.   
Ibrahimi, M., Javanmard, A., and Roy, B. Efficient reinforcement learning for high dimensional linear quadratic systems. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 25, pp. 2636–2644. Curran Associates, Inc., 2012.   
Kakade, S. and Langford, J. Approximately optimal approximate reinforcement learning. In In Proc. 19th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2002.   
Khalil, H. K. Nonlinear Control. Pearson, 2015.   
Kocak, T., Neu, G., Valko, M., and Munos, R. Efficient´ learning by implicit exploration in bandit problems with side observations. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 27, pp. 613–621. Curran Associates, Inc., 2014.   
Konda, V. and Tsitsiklis, J. Actor-critic algorithms. In Solla, S., Leen, T., and Muller, K. (eds.), ¨ Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 12. MIT Press, 2000.   
Lai, T. and Robbins, H. Asymptotically efficient adaptive allocation rules. Advances in Applied Mathematics, 6(1): 4 – 22, 1985. ISSN 0196-8858.   
Li, G., Wei, Y., Chi, Y., Gu, Y., and Chen, Y. Softmax policy gradient methods can take exponential time to converge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.11270, 2021.   
Littlestone, N. and Warmuth, M. K. The weighted majority algorithm. Inform. Comput., 108(2):212–261, 1994.   
Łojasiewicz, S. Les equations aux d ´ eriv ´ ees partielles (paris, ´ 1962), 1963.   
Lowe, R., Wu, Y., Tamar, A., Harb, J., Abbeel, P., and Mordatch, I. Multi-agent actor-critic for mixed cooperativecompetitive environments, 2020.   
Maclin, R. and Opitz, D. W. Popular ensemble methods: An empirical study. CoRR, abs/1106.0257, 2011.   
Mania, H., Tu, S., and Recht, B. Certainty equivalence is efficient for linear quadratic control. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 32, pp. 10154–10164. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019.
