$$\ell = \sup _ {x \in \mathcal {X}} \sigma_ {\max} \left(\frac {\partial f}{\partial x} (H x)\right) \tag {3}$$

is the Lipschitz constant (see [29]) with $\sigma _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ the maximum singular value. The problem (3) can be solved numerically using a suitable solver for nonlinear constrained optimization problems $( \mathrm { e . g . }$ , fmincon in MATLAB).

Both SIDARTHE and SIDARTHE-V models, for instance, developed in [25] and [30], respectively, can be written as (1) with $f ( H x ) \ = \ [ \ \mathrm { S I } \ \mathrm { S D } \ \mathrm { S A } \ \mathrm { S R } \ ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ (see Section VI). Networked SIS epidemic model [28] in the form of (1) has $f ( H x ) = - \mathrm { d i a g } ( x ) B W x , G = H = I _ { n } .$ , and $A = \left( B W - D \right)$ , where $\begin{array} { r c l } { { B } } & { { = } } & { { \mathrm { d i a g } ( \beta _ { 1 } , . . . , \beta _ { n } ) } } \end{array}$ is the matrix of infection susceptiblities of nodes, $D = \mathrm { d i a g } ( \delta _ { 1 } , . . . , \delta _ { n } )$ is the matrix of healing rates of nodes, and W is the weighted adjacency matrix.

When selecting a suitable model describing an epidemic process, particular consideration should be given to its identifiability and observability properties with respect to the available measurements. The measured output in compartmental models comprise the variables corresponding to the measurable compartments—for example, active number of diagnosed cases and total number of deaths—and/or the variables corresponding to the flows from one compartment to another—for example, daily number of diagnosed and hospitalized cases. Similarly, the measured output in networked models can be obtained, for instance, by recording the active number of diagnosed cases in each node. In the engineering applications [3]–[5], one can also assume that the full states of some gateway nodes [31] in the network are measured directly by the dedicated sensors.
