# 4. Improper Learning using Gradients

In this and the following sections, we propose and analyze a policy gradient-based algorithm that provably finds the best, potentially improper, mixture of controllers for the given MDP. While we employ gradient ascent to optimize the mixture weights, the fact that this procedure works at all is far from obvious. We begin by noting that $V ^ { \pi _ { \theta } }$ , as described in Section 3, is nonconcave in θ for both direct and softmax parameterizations, which renders analysis with standard tools of convex optimization inapplicable.

Lemma 4.1. (Non-concavity of Value function) There is an MDP and a set of controllers, for which the maximization problem of the value function (i.e. (1)) is non-concave for both the SoftMax and direct parameterizations, i.e., θ 7→ $V ^ { \pi _ { \theta } }$ is non-concave.

The proof follows from a counterexample whose construction we show in the appendix. Our PG algorithm, SoftMax PG, is shown in Algorithm 1. The parameters $\theta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ which define the policy are updated by following the gradient of the value function at the current policy parameters.

Convergence Guarantees. The following result shows that with SoftMax PG, the value function converges to that of the best in-class policy at a rate $\mathcal { O } \left( 1 / t \right)$ . Furthermore, the theorem shows an explicit dependence on the number of controllers M , in place of the usual |S|. Note that with perfect gradient knowledge the algorithm becomes deterministic. This is a standard assumption in the analysis of PG algorithms (Fazel et al., 2018; Agarwal et al., 2020a; Mei et al., 2020).

Theorem 4.2 (Convergence of Policy Gradient). With $\{ \theta _ { t } \} _ { t \geqslant 1 }$ generated as in Algorithm 1 and using a learning rate $\begin{array} { r } { \eta = \frac { ( 1 - \gamma ) ^ { 2 } } { 7 \gamma ^ { 2 } + 4 \gamma + 5 } , f o r } \end{array}$ (1−γ) 7γ2+4γ+5 , for all t > 1, V ∗(ρ) − V πθt (ρ) = $t \geqslant 1 , V ^ { \ast } ( \rho ) - V ^ { \pi _ { \theta _ { t } } } ( \rho ) =$ $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { O } \left( \frac { 1 } { t } \frac { M \gamma ^ { 2 } } { c _ { t } ^ { 2 } ( 1 - \gamma ) ^ { 3 } } \right) , w h e r e ~ c _ { t } : = \underset { 1 \leqslant s \leqslant t } { \operatorname* { m i n } } \underset { m : \pi ^ { * } ( m ) > 0 } { \operatorname* { m i n } } \pi _ { \theta _ { s } } ( m ) . } \end{array}$
