After switching surface design, the next important aspect is guaranteeing the existence of a sliding mode. Let $S = \{ x | s ( x ) = 0 \}$ be the switching surface that can be scalar, linear, stable ordinary differential equation (nonlinear) which includes the origin $x = 0$ , then $x ( t )$ is the sliding mode of the system. A sliding mode exists, if in the vicinity of the switching surface, the tangent or velocity vectors (time derivative of the state vector) of the state trajectory always point towards the switching surface. Switching surface ?? is called sliding surface or sliding manifold if for every point on the surface there are trajectories reaching it from both sides of the surface. To prove the existence of the sliding mode, stability of the state trajectories in the neighbourhood of the sliding surface ?? is required i.e. representative point must approach the surface at least asymptotically. The sufficient condition for the sliding mode is called reaching condition, termed as Reaching mode and the largest neighbourhood which satisfies this reaching condition is called the region of attraction. The existence problem can be seen as a generalized stability problem, using second Lyapunov criteria. Specifically, stability requires the candidate Lyapunov function which is positive definite, to have a negative time derivative in the region of attraction. The control problem is to get the state ?? to track a specific time varying state $\boldsymbol { x _ { d } } = [ x _ { d } , \dot { x _ { d } } , . . , x _ { d } ^ { ( n - 1 ) } ]$ in the presence of model imprecision on $f ( x )$ and $g ( x )$ .

Design of Sliding mode control consists of two parts:

1. Design of the sliding surface, usually of order (?? − 1) or smaller, must be constructed such that the system performance satisfies the design objectives like stability, order reduction etc.   
2. Switching feedback control is designed such that the reaching condition is satisfied which drives the state trajectory to the sliding surface in finite time and maintains it thereafter.
