# 6.2. Simulations with ACIL

We perform some queueing theoretic simulations on the natural actor critic version of ACIL, which we will call NACIL in this section. Unlike Softmax PG, ACIL estimates gradients using temporal difference instead of SPSA. We study three different settings (1) where in the first case the optimal policy is a strict improper combination of the available controllers and (2) where it is at a corner point, i.e., one of the available controllers itself is optimal (3) arrival rates are time-varying as in the previous section. Our simulations show that in all the cases, ACIL converges to the correct controller mixture.

Recall the example that we discussed in Sec. 2.2. We consider the case with Bernoulli arrivals with rates $\pmb { \lambda } = [ \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } ]$ and are given two base/atomic controllers $\{ K _ { 1 } , K _ { 2 } \}$ , where controller $K _ { i }$ serves Queue i with probability $1 , i = 1 , 2 .$ As can be seen in Fig. 3(a) when $\lambda = [ 0 . 4 , 0 . 4 ]$ (equal arrival rates), NACIL converges to an improper mixture policy that serves each queue with probability [0.5, 0.5]. Next in Fig 3(b) shows a situation where one of the base controllers, i.e., the “Longest-Queue-First” (LQF) is the optimal controller. NACIL converges correctly to the corner point.

Lastly, Fig. 3(c) shows a setting similar to (ii) Sec. 6.1 above. Here there is a single transition of $( \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } )$ from $( 0 . 4 , 0 . 3 )  ( 0 . 3 , 0 . 4 )$ which occurs at $t = \lceil 1 0 ^ { 5 } / 3 \rceil$ , which is unknown to the learner. We show the probability of choosing controller 1. NACIL tracks the changing arrival rates over time. We supply some more simulations with NACIL in the appendix due to space limitations.
