(i) Path Graph Networks. The scheduling constraints in the first network we study dictate that Queues i and i+1 cannot be served simultaneously for $i \in [ N - 1 ]$ in any round $t \geqslant 0 .$ . Such queueing systems are called path graph networks (Mohan et al., 2020). We work with $N = 4$ . Therefore, sets of queues which can be served simultaneously are $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { A } \ = \ \{ \emptyset , \{ 1 \} , \{ 2 \} , \{ 3 \} , \{ 4 \} , \{ 1 , 3 \} , \{ 2 , 4 \} , \{ 1 , 4 \} \} } \end{array}$ . The constituents of A are called independent sets in the literature. In each round t, the scheduler selects an independent set to serve the queues therein. Let $Q _ { j } ( t )$ be the backlog of Queue $j$ at time t. We use the following base controllers: (i) $K _ { 1 } : \mathbf { \Omega } $ Max Weight (MW) controller (Tassiulas & Ephremides, 1992) chooses a set $s _ { t } : =$ $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname { a r g m a x } _ { \underline { { \mathbf { S } } } \in \mathcal { A } } \sum _ { j \in \underline { { \mathbf { S } } } } Q _ { j } ( t ) } \end{array}$ , i.e, the set with the largest backlog, (ii) K2 : Maximum Egress Rate (MER) controller chooses a set $s _ { t } : = \mathrm { a r g m a x } _ { \underline { { \mathsf { S } } } \in \mathcal { A } } \sum _ { j \in \mathsf { S } } \mathbb { I } \{ Q _ { j } ( t ) > 0 \}$ , i.e, the set which has the maximum number of non-empty queues.We also choose $K _ { 3 } , K _ { 4 }$ and $K _ { 5 }$ which serve the sets {1, 3}, {2, 4}, {1, 4} respectively with probability 1. We fix the arrival rates to the queues (0.495, 0.495, 0.495, 0.495). It is well known that the MER rule is mean-delay optimal in this case (Mohan et al., 2020). In Fig. 2(c), we plot the probability of choosing $K _ { i } , i \in [ 5 ]$ ], learnt by our algorithm. The probability of choosing MER indeed converges to 1.

(ii) Non-stationary arrival rates. Recall the example discussed in Sec. 2.2 of two queues. The scheduler there is now given two base/atomic controllers $\mathcal { C } : = \{ K _ { 1 } , K _ { 2 } \}$ , i.e. M = 2. Controller $K _ { i }$ serves Queue i with probability $1 , i \ = \ 1 , 2 .$ . As can be seen in Fig. 2(d), the arrival rates λ to the two queues vary over time (adversarially) during the learning. In particular, λ varies from $( 0 . 3 , 0 . 6 )  ( 0 . 6 , 0 . 3 )  ( 0 . 4 9 , 0 . 4 9 )$ . Our PG algorithm successfully tracks this change and adapts to the optimal improper stationary policies in each case.

In all the simulations shown above we note that the empirical trajectories of $\bar { c } _ { t }$ and $\bar { c } ^ { T }$ become flat after some initial rounds and are bounded away from zero. This supports our conjecture that $\scriptstyle \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t \to \infty } c _ { t }$ in Theorem 4.2 is bounded away from zero, rendering the theorem statement non-vacuous. Note that Alg. 1 performs well in challenging scenarios, even with estimates of the value function and its gradient.
