# References

Abbasi-Yadkori, Y. and Szepesvari, C. Regret bounds for ´ the adaptive control of linear quadratic systems. In Proceedings of the 24th Annual Conference on Learning Theory, volume 19 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 1–26, Budapest, Hungary, 09–11 Jun 2011. JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings.   
Agarwal, A., Kakade, S. M., Lee, J. D., and Mahajan, G. Optimality and approximation with policy gradient methods in markov decision processes. In Proceedings of Thirty Third Conference on Learning Theory, pp. 64–66. PMLR, 2020a.   
Agarwal, N., Brukhim, N., Hazan, E., and Lu, Z. Boosting for control of dynamical systems. In III, H. D. and Singh, A. (eds.), Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 119 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 96–103. PMLR, 13–18 Jul 2020b.   
Auer, P., Cesa-Bianchi, N., Freund, Y., and Schapire, R. E. Gambling in a rigged casino: The adversarial multi-armed bandit problem. In Proceedings of IEEE 36th Annual Foundations of Computer Science, pp. 322–331, 1995.   
Auer, P., Jaksch, T., and Ortner, R. Near-optimal regret bounds for reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 21, pp. 89–96. Curran Associates, Inc., 2009.   
Banijamali, E., Abbasi-Yadkori, Y., Ghavamzadeh, M., and Vlassis, N. Optimizing over a restricted policy class in mdps. In Chaudhuri, K. and Sugiyama, M. (eds.), Proceedings of the Twenty-Second International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, volume 89 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 3042–3050. PMLR, 16–18 Apr 2019.   
Barakat, A., Bianchi, P., and Lehmann, J. Analysis of a target-based actor-critic algorithm with linear function approximation. CoRR, abs/2106.07472, 2021.   
Barreto, A., Dabney, W., Munos, R., Hunt, J. J., Schaul, T., van Hasselt, H. P., and Silver, D. Successor features for transfer in reinforcement learning. In Guyon, I., Luxburg, U. V., Bengio, S., Wallach, H., Fergus, R., Vishwanathan, S., and Garnett, R. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 30. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017.   
Bertsekas, D. P. Dynamic programming and optimal control 3rd edition, volume ii. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 2011.   
Bhandari, J. and Russo, D. Global optimality guarantees for policy gradient methods. ArXiv, abs/1906.01786, 2019.
