# REFERENCES

[1] F.
L.
Lewis and D.
Liu, Reinforcement learning and approximate dynamic programming for feedback control.
John Wiley & Sons, 2013, vol.
17.
[2] R.
S.
Sutton and A.
G.
Barto, Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction.
Cambridge, MA, USA: A Bradford Book, 2018.
[3] D.
P.
Bertsekas, Reinforcement learning and optimal control.
Athena Scientific Belmont, MA, 2019.
[4] V.
Kumar, E.
Todorov, and S.
Levine, “Optimal control with learned local models: Application to dexterous manipulation,” in 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2016, pp.
378–383.
[5] H.
Surmann, C.
Jestel, R.
Marchel, F.
Musberg, H.
Elhadj, and M.
Ardani, “Deep reinforcement learning for real autonomous mobile robot navigation in indoor environments,” 2020.
[6] D.
Silver, T.
Hubert, J.
Schrittwieser, I.
Antonoglou, M.
Lai, A.
Guez, M.
Lanctot, L.
Sifre, D.
Kumaran, T.
Graepel, T.
Lillicrap, K.
Simonyan, and D.
Hassabis, “A general reinforcement learning algorithm that masters chess, shogi, and go through self-play,” Science, vol.
362, no.
6419, pp.
1140–1144, 2018.
[7] O.
Vinyals et al., “Grandmaster level in StarCraft II using multi-agent reinforcement learning,” Nature, vol.
575, no.
7782, pp.
350–354, 2019.
[8] W.
Saunders, G.
Sastry, A.
Stuhlmueller, and O.
Evans, “Trial without error: Towards safe reinforcement learning via human intervention,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.05173, 2017.
[9] M.
Alshiekh, R.
Bloem, R.
Ehlers, B.
Konighofer, S.
Niekum, and ¨ U.
Topcu, “Safe reinforcement learning via shielding,” in Proceedings AAAI, 2018, pp.
2669–2678.
[10] L.
Beckenbach, P.
Osinenko, and S.
Streif, “Model predictive control with stage cost shaping inspired by reinforcement learning,” in Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2019, pp.
7110–7115.
[11] L.
Beckenbach, P.
Osinenko, T.
Gohrt, and S.
Streif, “Constrained and ¨ stabilizing stacked adaptive dynamic programming and a comparison with model predictive control,” in European Control Conference (ECC), 2018, pp.
1349–1354.
[12] L.
Beckenbach, P.
Osinenko, and S.
Streif, “A Q-learning predictive control scheme with guaranteed stability,” European Journal of Control, vol.
56, pp.
167–178, 2020.
[13] M.
Zanon, S.
Gros, and A.
Bemporad, “Practical reinforcement learning of stabilizing economic mpc,” in 2019 18th European Control Conference (ECC), 2019, pp.
2258–2263.
[14] M.
Zanon and S.
