# II. SUMMARY OF THE STATE OF THE ART AND CONTRIBUTION

This paper adds to the state of the art of Lyapunov techniques in stabilizing reinforcement learning. The proposed method introduces specially designed Lyapunov-like constraints on the agent learning so that the system be stabilized in a suitable sense. The overall framework implying the imposition of such constraints is titled Critic As a Lyapunov Function (CALF). Indeed, it is shown that the critic becomes effectively a (strictly speaking, time-varying) Lyapunov function for the closed loop with a suitable decay condition.

We consider environments influenced by bounded stochastic disturbance in a sample-and-hold setting, i. e., we assume the underlying dynamics be continuous, whereas the actions are taken at discrete moments in time. The inter-sample behavior of the environment is addressed explicitly in the stability analysis. The reason to assume bounded noise is because, otherwise, no guarantees can be made on the inter-sample behavior of the trajectories and this is independent of the agent design. Yet, bounded noise is physically meaningful and we give an overview of some respective stochastic models in the appendix.

Unlike some of the existing Lyapunov-based approaches, the currently presented one is purely online. It should be noted that the derived stability guarantees do not require persistence of excitation. The proposed approach applies to environments with general nonlinear dynamics, not necessarily controlaffine, nor does it need the input-coupling to be bounded or bounded away from zero.

The proofs of all the theorems, as well as the extra graphical material on the simulation studies, are to be found in the appendix.
