# Abstract

In this thesis, advanced design technique in sliding mode control (SMC) is presented. This thesis focuses on PID (Proportional-Integral-Derivative) type Sliding surfaces based Sliding mode control with improved power rate exponential reaching law for Non-linear systems using Modified Particle Swarm Optimization (MPSO) [4]. Non-linear dynamical systems are of interest to engineers, physicists and mathematicians because all real physical systems are inherently non-linear in nature. It is advantageous to consider these non-linearities directly while designing controllers for such system. Besides the ubiquitous PID controllers, a lot of research effort has been put on robust and nonlinear controllers, which is a model based technique. This method is then evaluated by studying their model for the particular choices of non-linear systems. They are on path to become the main tools in advance aerospace and industrial feedback loops and are rapidly advancing to their new versions. So in order to handle large non-linearities directly, sliding mode controller based on PID-type sliding surface has been designed in this work, where Integral term ensures fast finite convergence time. The controller parameter for various modified structures can be estimated using Modified PSO, which is used as an offline optimization technique. Then various reaching law were implemented leading to the proposed improved exponential power rate reaching law, which also improves the finite convergence time. To implement the proposed algorithm, nonlinear mathematical model has to be decrypted without linearizing, and used for the simulation purposes. Their performance is studied using simulations to prove the proposed behavior. The problem of chattering has been overcome by using boundary method and also second order sliding mode method. PI-type sliding surface based second order sliding mode controller with PD surface based SMC compensation is also proposed and implemented. The above proposed algorithms have been analyzed using Lyapunov stability criteria. The robustness of the method is provided using simulation results including disturbance and ±10% variation in system parameters. Finally process control based hardware is implemented (conical tank system).
