# 1. INTRODUCTION

This paper adds to the literature on Graphon Mean Field Games which read as Mean Field Games with networked agents, see for example Caines and Huang (2018, 2021); Lacker and Soret (2022); Delarue (2017); Parise and Ozdaglar (2019); Carmona et al. (2019); Aurell et al. (2022). These Graphon Mean Field Games are generalizations of Mean Field Games (see for example Caines et al. (2017); Caines (2020)), and can be seen as Graphon Mean Field Games with agents on large undirected graphs. To the best knowledge of the authors, this work is the first to study infinite horizon GMFGs. Mean field games with cost localities similar to the present paper appeared in Huang et al. (2010). The differences are that in Huang et al. (2010) each node is not assumed to be associated with an infinite mass of agents and graphons are not employed. The current paper focuses on establishing explicit analytical results on the cost at equilibrium and characterizing nodes with strict minimal (or strict maximal) cost at equilibrium via graphon properties (like the degree of the nodes) and appropriate choice of initial conditions. To characterize nodes with strict minimal (or strict maximal) equilibrium cost, we use first and second order differential condition.

Graphon Mean Field Games are asymptotic versions of finite large population games, with N agents $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { A } _ { i } , 1 \le i \le } \end{array}$ $N < \infty$ , which are distributed over the finite network, represented by its adjacency matrix $( g _ { i , j } ^ { n } ) _ { i , j = 1 : n } ,$ with n nodes. We assume that, at each node $l \in \{ 1 , . . . , n \}$ of this network, there is a cluster of agents denoted $C _ { l } ,$ and let $\mathbf { x } _ { n } = \bigoplus _ { l = 1 } ^ { n } \{ x ^ { i } | i \in C _ { l } \}$ denote the states of all agents in the population game. Hence, the total number of agents is $\textstyle N { \dot { = } } { \dot { \sum _ { l = 1 } ^ { n } | C _ { l } | } }$ .

For each agent Ai in cluster $C _ { i } .$ , the coupling term (also called global mean field) governing its interaction via the network with other players, is given by:

$$z _ {t} ^ {i, n} = \frac {1}{n} \sum_ {l = 1} ^ {n} g _ {i, l} ^ {n} \frac {1}{| C _ {l} |} \sum_ {j \in C _ {l}} x _ {t} ^ {j}, t \geq 0, \forall i = 1: N.$$
