(2020); Barakat et al. (2021) and casting into our setting, observe that $\nu _ { \pi }$ is a stationary distribution of a Markov chain over the pair $( s , m )$ with state-to-state transition kernel defined by $\bar { P } ( s ^ { \prime } | s , m ) : = \gamma \tilde { P } ( s ^ { \prime } | s , m ) + ( 1 - \gamma ) \rho ( s ^ { \prime } )$ and $m \sim \pi ( . )$ .

Algorithm Description. We present the algorithm in detail in Algorithm 2 along with a subroutine Alg 3 which updates the critic’s parameters. ACIL is a single-trajectory based algorithm, in the sense that it does not require a forced reset along the run. We begin with the critic’s updates. The critic uses linear function approximation $V _ { w } ( s ) : = \varphi ( s ) ^ { \top } w .$ , and uses TD learning to update its parameters $w \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ . We assume that $\varphi ( \cdot ) : \mathcal { S }  \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ is a known feature mapping. Let Φ be the corresponding $| S | \times d$ matrix. We assume that the columns of Φ are linearly independent. Next, based on the critic’s parameters, the actor approximates the $\tilde { A } ( s , m )$ function using the TD error: ${ \mathcal E } _ { w } ( s , m , s ^ { \prime } ) = \tilde { r } ( s , m ) \ +$ $\left( \gamma \varphi ( s ^ { \prime } ) - \varphi ( s ) \right) ^ { \intercal } w$ .

In order to provide guarantees of the convergence rates of Algorithm ACIL, we make the following assumptions, which are standard in RL literature (Konda & Tsitsiklis, 2000; Bhandari et al., 2018; Xu et al., 2020).

Algorithm 3 Critic-TD Subroutine   
Input: $s_{init}, \pi, \varphi, \beta, T_c, H$ Initialize: $w_0$ for $k \leftarrow 0$ to $T_c - 1$ do $s_{k,0} = s_{k-1,H}$ (when $k = 0$ , $s_{k,0} = s_{init}$ )

for $j \leftarrow 0$ to H - 1 do $m_{k,j} \sim \pi(.), a_{k,j} \sim K_{m_{k,j}}(s_{k,j},.)$ $s_{k,j+1} \sim \tilde{P}(.|s_{k,j}, m_{k,k})$ $\mathcal{E}_{w_k}(s_{k,j}, m_{k,j}, s_{k,j+1}) = \tilde{r}(s_{k,j}, m_{k,j}) + (\gamma\varphi(s_{k,j+1}) - \varphi(s_{k,j}))^\top w_k$ end for $w_{k+1} = w_k + \frac{\beta}{H} \sum_{i=0}^{H-1} \mathcal{E}_{w_k}(s_{k,i}, m_{k,i}, s_{k,i+1})\varphi(s_{k,i})$ end for

Output: $w_{T_c}, s_{T_c-1,H}$
