# 1.4 Thesis Outline

This thesis is organized in six chapters.

Chapter one gives an introduction about the thesis work including the literature survey. The detail design method of Sliding mode control for a class of non-linear systems is given in Chapter two. It describes about the basics of the sliding mode control design. It also details about the sliding manifold design, control law design, drawbacks of the sliding mode control design, modified particle swarm optimization, and also about the system’s physics which plays a direct role on the design of the control law design. Chapter three describes a modified PID-type sliding surface based sliding mode controller structure in which an additional integral term is used in the controller parameters. All the controller parameters are estimated using PSO and different non-linear processes have been considered for the validation of the proposed controller structure. Chapter four describes a novel controller structure with a proportional integral (PI) type sliding surface based sliding mode controller in the feed forward path and a proportional derivative (PD) type traditional sliding mode controller acting in the feedback path. The stability of the system is ensured by the PD type sliding mode controller in the proposed structure and proved by direct Lyapunov stability criteria. The robustness of the method is illustrated by simulation in MATLAB using SimMechanics model of the system. Chapter five is about the hardware implementation. Non-linear system (conical tank) is analyzed with considerable mathematical modeling and the performance is verified using proposed PID-type Sliding mode controller. The water level of the conical tank is maintained at a level. Chapter six summarizes the concluding remarks of the thesis work and the future scope.
