# A. Glossary of Symbols

1.
S: State space   
2.
A : Action space   
3.
S : Cardinality of $s$   
4.
A : Cardinality of A   
5.
M : Number of controllers   
6.
$K _ { i }$ Controller $i , i = 1 , \cdots , M$ .
For finite SA space MDP, $K _ { i }$ is a matrix of size $S \times A .$ , where each row is a probability distribution over the actions.
7.
C : Given collection of M controllers.
8.
$\mathcal { T } _ { s o f t } ( \mathcal { C } )$ : Improper policy class setup by the learner.
9.
$\boldsymbol { \theta } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ : Parameter assigned to the controllers to controllers, representing weights, updated each round by the learner.
10.
$\pi ( .
)$ : Probability of choosing controllers   
11.
$\pi ( .
\mid s )$ Probability of choosing action given state s.
Note that in our setting, given $\pi ( .
)$ over controllers (see previous item) and the set of controllers, $\pi ( .
\mid s )$ is completely defined, i.e., $\pi ( \boldsymbol { a } \mid \boldsymbol { s } ) = \sum _ { m = 1 } ^ { M } \pi ( m ) K _ { m } ( \boldsymbol { s } , \boldsymbol { a } )$ .
Hence we use simply π to denote the policy followed, whenever the context is clear.
12.
$r ( s , a )$ : Immediate (one-step) reward obtained if action a is played in state s.
13.
$\mathsf { P } ( s ^ { \prime } \mid s , a )$ Probability of transitioning to state $s ^ { \prime }$ from state s having taken action a.
14.
$\begin{array} { r } { V ^ { \pi } ( \rho ) : = \mathbb { E } _ { s _ { 0 } \sim \rho } \left[ V ^ { \pi } ( s _ { 0 } ) \right] = \mathbb { E } _ { \rho } ^ { \pi } \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { \infty } \gamma ^ { t } r ( s _ { t } , a _ { t } ) } \end{array}$ Value function starting with initial distribution ρ over states, and following policy π.
15.
$\boldsymbol { Q } ^ { \pi } ( \boldsymbol { s } , \boldsymbol { a } ) : = \mathbb { E } \left[ r ( \boldsymbol { s } , \boldsymbol { a } ) + \gamma \sum _ { \boldsymbol { s } ^ { \prime } \in \mathcal { S } } \mathbb { P } ( \boldsymbol { s } ^ { \prime } \mid \boldsymbol { s } , \boldsymbol { a } ) V ^ { \pi } ( \boldsymbol { s } ^ { \prime } ) \right] .$   
16.
$\tilde { Q } ^ { \pi } ( s , m ) : = \mathbb { E } \left[ \sum _ { a \in \mathcal { A } } K _ { m } ( s , a ) r ( s , a ) + \gamma \sum _ { s ^ { \prime } \in \mathcal { S } } \mathbb { P } ( s ^ { \prime } \mid s , a ) V ^ { \pi } ( s ^ { \prime } ) \right] .$   
17.
$A ^ { \pi } ( s , a ) : = Q ^ { \pi } ( s , a ) - V ^ { \pi } ( s )$   
18.
$\tilde { A } ( s , m ) : = \tilde { Q } ^ { \pi } ( s , m ) - V ^ { \pi } ( s ) .$ .
19.
$\begin{array} { l } { { \displaystyle d _ { \nu } ^ { \pi } : = \mathbb { E } _ { s _ { 0 } \sim \nu } \left[ \left( 1 - \gamma \right) \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { \infty } \mathbb { P } \left[ s _ { t } = s \mid s _ { o } , \pi , \mathrm { P } \right] \right] } } \\ { ~ .
~ .
~ .
~ } \end{array}$ .

Denotes a distribution over the states, is called the “discounted state visitation measure”   
20.
$c : \operatorname* { i n f } _ { t \geqslant 1 } \operatorname* { m i n } _ { \substack { m \in \{ m ^ { \prime } \in [ M ] : \pi ^ { * } ( m ^ { \prime } ) > 0 \} } } \pi _ { \theta _ { t } } ( m ) .$   
21.
$\begin{array} { r } { \left.
\frac { d _ { \mu } ^ { \pi ^ { * } } } { \mu } \right.
_ { \infty } = \operatorname* { m a x } _ { s } \frac { { d _ { \mu } ^ { \pi ^ { * } } ( s ) } } { \mu ( s ) } } \end{array}$ dπµ = maxs dπ∗µ (s) .
$\begin{array} { r } { \left.
\frac { 1 } { \mu } \right.
_ { \infty } = \operatorname* { m a x } _ { s } \frac { 1 } { \mu ( s ) } .
} \end{array}$
