(b) $b _ { i } < 0$   
Figure 1: The colored region shows the search space for the controllers satisfying by (12), cf. Theorem 4.4, which ensures asymptotic stability and transient safety. The orange curve is an instance of a controller in the specified search space. The sign of the budget captures whether bus i (a) violates (9) or (b) compensates it up to a certain amount to ensure the overall system stability.

where $\bar { c } _ { i } ^ { + } , \bar { c } _ { i } ^ { - } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ are bias vectors with m hidden units satisfying $[ \bar { c } _ { i } ^ { + } ] _ { 1 } = 0 , [ \bar { c } _ { i } ^ { + } ] _ { j } \leq [ \bar { c } _ { i } ^ { + } ] _ { j - 1 } ( r e s p . [ \bar { c } _ { i } ^ { - } ] _ { 1 } = 0 $ , $[ \overline { { c } } _ { i } ^ { - } ] _ { j } ~ \leq ~ [ \overline { { c } } _ { i } ^ { - } ] _ { j - 1 } )$ for j ∈ [2, m]N, and $\bar { z } _ { i } ^ { + } , \bar { z } _ { i } ^ { - } \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { 1 \times m }$ are weight vectors satisfying $\begin{array} { r l r } { \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { \ell } [ \overline { { z } } _ { i } ^ { + } ] _ { 1 , j } } & { { } > } & { 0 } \end{array}$ (reps. $\textstyle \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { \ell } [ \overline { { z } } _ { i } ^ { - } ] _ { 1 , j } ~ < ~ 0 )$ for $\ell \in [ 1 , m ] _ { \mathbb { N } }$ . Then, $\overline { { \alpha } } _ { i }$ is of class-K. Furthermore, for any class-K function κ and given any compact domain $K \subset \mathbb { R }$ and $\epsilon \ > \ 0$ , there exist $\overline { { z } } _ { i } ^ { + } , \overline { { z } } _ { i } ^ { - } , \overline { { c } } _ { i } ^ { + } , \overline { { c } } _ { i } ^ { - }$ and m such that $| \kappa ( \omega _ { i } ) - \overline { { \alpha } } _ { i } ( \omega _ { i } ) | < \epsilon \ f o r$ all $\omega _ { i } \in K$ .

We omit the proof of this result, but note that it is analogous to the proof of [9, Theorem 2]. The underlying idea is to construct a piece-wise linear approximation of a nonlinear function in which every linear segment is strictly increasing. An arbitrary accuracy of the approximation can be achieved given sufficiently many neurons. Also note that $\underline { { \alpha } } _ { i }$ can be constructed in the same way with weight vectors $\underline { { z } } _ { i } ^ { + } , \underline { { z } } _ { i } ^ { - }$ and bias vectors $\underline { c } _ { i } ^ { + } , \underline { c } _ { i } ^ { - }$ .

Lemma 5.2. (Neural network parameterization of frequency threshold): $\begin{array} { r } { L e t \varsigma ( x ) = \frac { 1 } { 1 + e ^ { - x } } } \end{array}$ be the sigmoid function. For each $i \in \mathcal { T }$ , let
