# I. INTRODUCTION

Epidemic processes comprise spreading phenomena in biological, social, geographic, and cyber domains. Therefore, in addition to epidemiology [1], modeling and analysis of epidemic processes have found applications in wildfires [2], cyber-physical systems [3], computer networks [4], and wireless communications [5]. State estimation is crucial for efficient monitoring and control of these processes. Because of the physical and economic limitations of available sensing resources, it is generally not possible to measure all the state variables of an epidemic process. This limitation is wellunderstood in real-world epidemics, where it is impossible to obtain data on epidemic variables like the number of susceptible, undetected infected, and recovered cases.

Observers are dynamical systems that utilize the available online measurements to estimate the state of a linear/nonlinear process. For this, they require a suitable model of the process. Therefore, before state estimation, it is necessary to identify the model parameters. The notions of identifiability and observability, which have been extensively studied for epidemic models [6], [7], ensure whether the parameters can be identified and the state variables can be reconstructed, respectively. Several parameter estimation techniques for epidemic models are proposed in [8]–[10]. However, despite being equally important, state estimation of epidemic models didn’t receive enough attention in the research literature. The existing state estimation techniques for epidemic models either consider a linearized epidemic model [11] or design an extended Kalman filter [12]–[14], which is also a sophisticated estimation technique based on linearization [15]. The problem with these techniques is that they only guarantee local convergence of the state estimation algorithm. The adaptive observer proposed in [16] ensures a global convergence result; however, it assumes that the nonlinearity in the model is a measured output, which is a very restrictive assumption.
