The inequality follows from relation between 1-norm and 2-norm.

Proposition J.4. For any $\theta , \theta ^ { \prime } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ ,

$$\nabla V (\theta) - \nabla V (\theta^ {\prime}) \leqslant \sqrt {M} L _ {V} \left\| \theta - \theta^ {\prime} \right\| _ {2}$$

where $\begin{array} { r } { L _ { V } = \frac { 2 \sqrt { 2 } C _ { \kappa \xi } + 1 } { 1 - \gamma } } \end{array}$ , and $\begin{array} { r } { C _ { \kappa \xi } = \left( 1 + \left\lceil \log _ { \xi } \frac { 1 } { \kappa } \right\rceil + \frac { 1 } { 1 - \xi } \right) } \end{array}$ .

Proof. We follow the same steps as in Proposition 1 in (Xu et al., 2020) along with Lemmas J.3,J.2,J.1 and that the maximum reward is bounded by 1. □

We will now restate a useful result from (Xu et al., 2020), about the convergence of the critic parameter $w _ { t }$ to the equilibrium point $w ^ { * }$ of the underlying ODE, applied to our setting.

Proposition J.5. Suppose assumptions‘5.3 and 5.2 hold. Then is $\beta \quad \leqslant$ min $\left\{ \frac { \Gamma _ { L } } { 1 6 } , \frac { 8 } { \Gamma _ { L } } \right\}$ and $H \_ { \mathbf { \Sigma } } \geqslant$ $\begin{array} { r } { \left( \frac { 4 } { \Gamma _ { L } } + 2 \alpha \right) \left[ \frac { 1 5 3 6 [ 1 + ( \kappa - 1 ) \xi ] } { ( 1 - \xi ) \Gamma _ { L } } \right] } \end{array}$ . We have

$$\mathbb {E} \left[ \| w _ {T _ {c}} - w ^ {*} \| _ {2} ^ {2} \right] \leqslant \left(1 - \frac {\Gamma_ {L}}{1 6} \alpha\right) ^ {T _ {c}} \| w _ {0} - w ^ {*} \| _ {2} ^ {2} + \left(\frac {4}{\Gamma_ {L}} + 2 \alpha\right) \frac {1 5 3 6 (1 + R _ {w} ^ {2}) [ 1 + (\kappa - 1) \xi ]}{(1 - \xi) H}.$$

If we further let $\begin{array} { r } { T _ { c } \geqslant \frac { 1 6 } { \Gamma _ { L } \alpha } \log \frac { 2 \| w _ { 0 } - w ^ { * } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } } { \varepsilon } } \end{array}$ ΓLα g 2kw0−w∗k22 and H > ε $\begin{array} { r } { H \geqslant \left( \frac { 4 } { \Gamma _ { L } } + 2 \alpha \right) \frac { 3 0 7 2 ( R _ { w } ^ { 2 } + 1 ) \left[ 1 + ( \kappa - 1 ) \xi \right] } { ( 1 - \xi ) \Gamma _ { L } \varepsilon } } \end{array}$ , then we have E $\left[ \left. w _ { T _ { c } } - w ^ { * } \right. _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } \right] \leqslant \varepsilon$ with total sample complexity given by $\begin{array} { r } { T _ { c } H = \mathcal { O } \left( \frac { 1 } { \alpha \varepsilon } \log \frac { 1 } { \varepsilon } \right) } \end{array}$ .

Proof. Proof follows along the similar lines as in Thm. 4 in Xu et al. (2020) and by using $( 1 + \gamma ) \leqslant 2$ and assuming $\| \varphi ( s ) \| _ { 2 } \leqslant 1$ for all $s , s ^ { \prime } \in S$ . $\left\| \varphi ( s ) ( \gamma \varphi ( s ^ { \prime } ) - \varphi ( s ) ) ^ { \top } \right\| _ { F } \leqslant$
