# 2.5 Chattering and its Reduction Techniques

To guarantee the desired behavior of the close-loop system, the sliding mode controllers require an infinitely fast switching mechanism. However, due to physical limitations in real world systems, directly applying the above developed control algorithms will always lead to high frequency oscillations in some vicinity of the switching surface, i.e., the so called chattering phenomenon [59-61]. There are two possible reasons behind chattering phenomenon. First, chattering may be caused by the switching nonidealities, such as time delays or time constants exist in microprocessor based switching devices. Second, even if the switching device is considered ideal and capable of switching at an infinite frequency, the presence of parasitic dynamics, i.e., unmodelled dynamics usually neglected in the open-loop model, also causes chattering to appear in the neighborhood of the sliding surface. However, in sliding mode controlled systems, due to the discontinuity of the control signal, the interactions between the parasitic dynamics and the switching term may result in a nondecaying oscillation with finite amplitude and frequency, i.e. chattering. If the switching gain is large, such kind of chattering may even cause unpredictable instability. Chattering and high control activity is the major drawbacks of the sliding mode approach in the practical realization of sliding mode control schemes. The chattering problem is considered as a major obstacle for SMC to become a more appreciated control method among practicing control engineers. In general, chattering must be eliminated for the controller to perform properly. Reducing this chattering effect has long been a major objective in research on SMC [64]. The existing approaches for chattering reduction in design of SMC are summarized below.
