In the following, the algorithm reduces $K _ { \mathrm { P } }$ if a non-feasible solution is found and increases $K _ { \mathrm { I } }$ if a feasible solution is found. By this procedure, the function searches along a path. The path always leads along the left edge of the feasible solution space. When $K _ { \mathrm { P } }$ has been increased 20 times in a row, which is counted by the parameter ES, the search is finished (see orange path in Fig. 6). Empirical investigations have shown that the global minimum is always located at the lower-left tip of the feasible solution space as long as the feasible solution space is convex. Therefore the last feasible solution found by Path Search is the global minimum in a convex solution space. In rare cases, the feasible solution spaces are non-convex, as shown in Fig. 6. In these cases, the function Path Search can not find the global minimum. For this reason, the main function checks after running Path Search whether the solution space may be non-convex.

This is done with the indicator $I _ { \mathrm { c o n v } }$ , which is calculated by Eq. 18 and Eq. 19, whereby the rise time $t _ { \mathrm { r , m i n , p a t h } }$ of the solution of the Path Search function is used. If $I _ { \mathrm { c o n v } } \geq 1$ is true, the main function calls the function Area Search, which needs significantly more computing power compared to Path Search. Empirical evaluations have shown that for non-convex solution spaces, $I _ { \mathrm { c o n v } }$ is always higher than one.

$$K _ {\mathrm{P}} = K _ {\mathrm{P}} - K _ {\mathrm{P}} \cdot \text { stepsize, } \tag {16}K _ {\mathrm{I}} = K _ {\mathrm{I}} + K _ {\mathrm{I}} \cdot \text { stepsize, } \tag {17}T _ {\text { avg }} = \frac {\sum_ {a \in A _ {n}} ((T _ {\text { delay } , a} ^ {\text { DER }} + T _ {\text { rise } , a} ^ {\text { DER }}) \cdot P _ {\text { inst } , a} ^ {\text { DER }})}{\sum_ {a \in A _ {n}} P _ {\text { inst } , a} ^ {\text { DER }}}, \tag {18}I _ {\text { conv }} = \frac {t _ {\mathrm{r} , \min , \text { path }}}{T _ {\text { avg }} + T _ {\text { meas }} + T _ {\text { com }}}. \tag {19}$$
