$$\mathrm{D} ^ {+} V (t, \phi) = \operatorname * {l i m s u p} _ {\varepsilon \to 0 ^ {+}} \frac {V \left(t + \varepsilon , x _ {t + \varepsilon} (t , \phi)\right) - V (t , \phi)}{\varepsilon}$$

where $x ( t , \phi )$ denotes the solution to (1) satisfying $x _ { t } = \phi$

Throughout this study, we assume the closed-loop system (3) satisfies the following conditions.

Assumption II.1. There exist functions $V _ { 1 } \in \mathcal { V } _ { 0 } , V _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { V } _ { 0 } ^ { * } , \alpha _ { 1 } , \alpha _ { 2 } , \alpha _ { 3 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ and $\chi \in { \mathcal { K } }$ , and constant $\mu > 0$ such that

(i) $\alpha _ { 1 } ( \| \phi ( 0 ) \| ) \le V _ { 1 } ( t , \phi ( 0 ) ) \le \alpha _ { 2 } ( \| \phi ( 0 ) \| ) { \ a n d \ } 0 \le V _ { 2 } ( t , \phi ) \le \alpha _ { 3 } ( \| \phi \| _ { \tau } ) ;$   
(ii) $V ( t , \phi ) : = V _ { 1 } ( t , \phi ( 0 ) ) + V _ { 2 } ( t , \phi )$ satisfies

$$\mathrm{D} ^ {+} V (t, \phi) \leq - \mu V (t, \phi) + \chi (\| \epsilon \|).$$

Now we are in the position to introduce the triggering condition in [1] for system (1). To enforce  to satisfy the condition

$$\chi (\| \epsilon \|) \leq \sigma \alpha_ {1} (\| x \|) + \chi (a e ^ {- b (t - t _ {0})}) \tag {4}$$

where $\sigma \geq 0 , a \geq 0$ , and $b > 0$ are constants, we update the control input u when the following triggering condition is satisfied

$$\chi (\| \epsilon \|) = \sigma \alpha_ {1} (\| x \|) + \chi (a e ^ {- b (t - t _ {0})}). \tag {5}$$

When condition (5) holds, we say an event occurs and then a control update is executed. Therefore, the sampling times $\{ t _ { i } \} _ { i \in \mathbb { N } }$ are determined as follows:

$$t _ {i + 1} = \inf \left\{t \geq t _ {i} \mid \chi (\| \epsilon \|) = \sigma \alpha_ {1} (\| x \|) + \chi (a e ^ {- b (t - t _ {0})}) \right\}, \tag {6}$$

which are also called event times. Since the event times are implicitly determined by the triggering condition (5), it is essential to exclude Zeno behavior, a phenomenon that infinitely many events happen over a finite time interval, from the closed-loop system.

It has been shown in [2] that Assumption II.1 implies the closed-loop system (3) is input-tostate stable with respect to the sampling error , and the state feedback control $u ( t ) = k ( x ( t ) )$ for $t \geq t _ { 0 }$ renders the following closed-loop system

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} (t) = f (t, x _ {t}, k (x (t))) \\ x _ {t _ {0}} = \varphi \end{array} \right. \tag {7}
$$

globally asymptotically stable. The objective of this study is to show that when $a > 0$ , the sufficient conditions provided in [1] ensures global asymptotic stability of system (3) with the event times determined by (6), rather than just uniform boundedness and global attractivity as proved in [1], and also to show that the closed-loop system (3) does not exhibit Zeno behavior for any positive b, while the results in [1] require $b < \mu - \sigma$ to rule out Zeno behavior.

To show stability of the closed-loop system, we will introduce a novel Halanay-type inequality in the next section.
