# IV. Main Results

Now we are ready to introduce the main results of this study.

Theorem 1. Suppose that Assumption II.1 holds with $V _ { 1 } \in \mathcal { V } _ { 0 } , \ V _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { V } _ { 0 } ^ { * } , \ \alpha _ { 1 } , \alpha _ { 2 } , \alpha _ { 3 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ and $\chi \in { \mathcal K } ,$ , and constant $\mu > 0$ . The event times $\{ t _ { i } \} _ { i \in \mathbb { N } }$ are defined by (6) with $0 \leq \sigma < \mu , a > 0$ , and $b > 0$ . We further assume that

(iii) $\alpha _ { 1 } ^ { - 1 } , \chi ,$ , and k are locally Lipschitz, where $\alpha _ { 1 } ^ { - 1 }$ denotes the inverse of $\alpha _ { 1 }$ ;   
(iv) f is locally Lipschitz in its second and third arguments, respectively.

Then the closed-loop system (3) is globally asymptotically stable and does not exhibit Zeno behavior.

Proof. Let

$$
\eta := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \min \{b, \mu - \sigma \}, & \text { if } b \neq \mu - \sigma \\ \xi , & \text { if } b = \mu - \sigma \end{array} \right. \tag {13}
$$

where $\xi < b$ is a positive constant, and

$$
\bar {M} := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {a L}{| \mu - \sigma - b |}, & \text {if} b \neq \mu - \sigma \\ \frac {a L}{| \mu - \sigma - \xi |}, & \text {if} b = \mu - \sigma \end{array} \right.
$$

then from the proof of Theorem 2 in [1], we have

$$\left\| x (t) \right\| \leq \alpha_ {1} ^ {- 1} \left(M e ^ {- \eta \left(t - t _ {0}\right)}\right) \leq \alpha_ {1} ^ {- 1} (M) \tag {14}$$

for all $t \geq t _ { 0 } ,$ , where $M = \alpha _ { 2 } ( | | \varphi ( 0 ) | | ) + \alpha _ { 3 } ( | | \varphi | | _ { \tau } ) + \bar { M }$ Global attractivity of the zero solution follows from (14), that is, $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t \to \infty } \| x ( t ) \| = 0 } \end{array}$ for any initial condition $\varphi \in C ( [ - \tau , 0 ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } )$ .

Next, we show stability of the closed-loop system (3). From the system dynamics of (1) on $[ t _ { i } , t _ { i + 1 } )$ and the Lipschitz conditions on f and k, we have

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathrm{D} ^ {+} \| x (t) \| \leq \| \dot {x} (t) \| = \| f (t, x _ {t}, k (x (t _ {i}))) \| \\ \leq L _ {2} \| x _ {t} \| _ {\tau} + L _ {3} \| x (t _ {i}) \| \tag {15} \\ \end{array}
$$
