Proposition 1. Assume that there exists a process $\{ s _ { t } ^ { \alpha } , \alpha \in$ [0, 1] $, \ t \in [ 0 , \infty ) \} \in C _ { b } \left( [ 0 , \infty ) \right) \times L ^ { 2 } \left( [ 0 , \hat { 1 ] } \right)$ satisfying the offset ODE

$$\frac {d s _ {t} ^ {\alpha}}{d t} = \left(\frac {b ^ {2}}{r} \pi + \rho\right) s _ {t} ^ {\alpha} + z _ {t} ^ {\alpha}, t \in [ 0, \infty). \tag {12}$$

Then, there exists an optimal control process for the infinite horizon optimal control problem above, namely, for all $\alpha \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ ,

$$u _ {t} ^ {\alpha , o} = - \frac {b}{r} \big (\pi x _ {t} ^ {\alpha , o} + s _ {t} ^ {\alpha} \big), t \in [ 0, \infty), \tag {13}$$

where the optimal state process $( x _ { t } ^ { \alpha , o } ) _ { t \in [ 0 , T ] }$ is given by the SDE, $x _ { 0 } ^ { \alpha , o } \sim \mathcal { N } ( m ^ { \alpha } , \nu ^ { 2 } )$ ,

$$d x _ {t} ^ {\alpha , o} = \left[ - \frac {b ^ {2}}{r} \pi x _ {t} ^ {\alpha , o} - \frac {b ^ {2}}{r} s _ {t} ^ {\alpha} \right] d t + \sigma d w _ {t} ^ {\alpha}.$$

Proof. The proof is a standard application of LQG tracking control theory. See for example Huang et al. (2007). ✷

Proposition 2. Assume that there exists a process $\{ q _ { t } ^ { \alpha } , \alpha \in$ $[ 0 , \dot { 1 } ] , \ t \in [ 0 , \infty ) \} \in C _ { b } \left( [ 0 , \infty ) \right) \times L ^ { 2 } \left( [ 0 , \dot { 1 } ] \right)$ satisfying the ODE

$$\frac {d q _ {t} ^ {\alpha}}{d t} = - \sigma^ {2} \pi + \frac {b ^ {2}}{r} (s _ {t} ^ {\alpha}) ^ {2} + \rho q _ {t} ^ {\alpha} - (z _ {t} ^ {\alpha}) ^ {2}. \tag {14}$$

Then, the optimal costs are given, for all $\alpha \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ , by

$$
\begin{array}{l} J (u ^ {\alpha}, z) = \pi \mathbb {E} [ (x _ {0} ^ {\alpha , o}) ^ {2} ] + 2 s _ {0} ^ {\alpha} \mathbb {E} [ x _ {0} ^ {\alpha , o} ] + q _ {0} ^ {\alpha} \\ = \pi (\nu^ {2} + (m ^ {\alpha}) ^ {2}) + 2 s _ {0} ^ {\alpha} m ^ {\alpha} + q _ {0} ^ {\alpha}. \tag {15} \\ \end{array}
$$

Proof. The proof is also standard for LQG tracking problems. See for example Huang et al. (2007). ✷

Once the control problems have been solved and their solutions characterized by the two propositions above, we proceed to verify the consistency condition.

Proposition 3. Let the assumptions of Proposition 1 be in force. The consistency conditions (9) are satisfied if and only if there exists a process $\{ z _ { t } ^ { \alpha } , \ \alpha \in [ 0 , 1 ] , \ t \in [ 0 , \infty ) \} \in$ $C _ { b } \overset { \cdot } { ( } [ 0 , \infty ) ) \times L ^ { 2 } \left( [ 0 , \overset { \cdot } { 1 } ] \right)$ determined by the ODE:
