Overview of the approach. We consider a situation where we are given ‘black-box access’ to M controllers (maps from state to action distributions) $\{ K _ { 1 } , \dots , K _ { M } \}$ for an unknown MDP. By this we mean that we can choose to invoke any of the given controllers at any point during the operation of the system. With the understanding that the given family of controllers is ’reasonable,’ we frame the problem of learning the best combination of the controllers by trial and error. We first set up an improper policy class of all randomized mixtures of the M given controllers – each such mixture is parameterized by a probability distribution over the M base controllers. Applying an improper policy in this class amounts to selecting independently at each time a base controller according to this distribution and implementing the recommended action as a function of the present state of the system. The learner’s goal is to find the best performing mixture policy by iteratively testing from the pool of given controllers and observing the resulting state-action-reward trajectory.

Note that the underlying parameterization in our setting is over a set of given controllers which could be potentially abstract and defined for complex MDPs with continuous state/action spaces, instead of the (standard) policy gradient (PG) view where the parameterization directly defines the policy in terms of the state-action map. Our problem, therefore, hews more closely to a meta RL framework, in that we operate over a set of controllers that have themselves been designed using some optimization framework to which we are agnostic. This has the advantage of conferring a great deal of generality, since the class of controllers can now be chosen to promote any desirable secondary characteristic such as interpretability, ease of implementation or cost effectiveness.
