# 2.6.2 Modified Particle Swarm Optimization (MPSO):

To improve the convergence characteristics of the PSO algorithm, modifications have been implemented in it. Evolution equation of Modified PSO, proposed by Chang et. al [4], has been modified to ensure that the proposed algorithm has strong global convergence capability initially while it has strong local convergence capability later. In the Modified PSO algorithm $C _ { 1 }$ decreases exponentially and $C _ { 2 }$ increases exponentially with time. Effect of taking time dependent values for $C _ { 1 }$ and $C _ { 2 }$ :

1. The dependence of particle’s next position on its previous best position decrease with time.   
2. The dependence of particle’s next position on global best position increases with time.   
3. The main strength of PSO is its property of having random particles but after sometime when the swarm has met some potential solutions and one of them is best possible till then. After this time, the swarm should search around that best solution only, because it is highly likely that the optimum value for fitness function is lying around near to that best solution.   
4. It is highly unlikely that particles scattered around the full solution space will give better results than particles concentrated around a smaller subspace which contains the solution.   
5. The whole swarm concentrates around the single global best point in very little time and continues their search for global optimum in a very small subspace around global best. Swarm concentrating around a small subspace results in better and quicker optimization.

The expressions for updating the velocity and position of each particle are

$$V _ {i} ^ {(i + 1)} = w * V _ {i n} ^ {(i)} + C _ {1} * \left(P _ {i n} - X _ {i n} ^ {(i)}\right) + C _ {2} * (G _ {i n} - X _ {i n} ^ {(i)}) \tag {2.33}X _ {i n} ^ {(i + 1)} = X _ {i n} ^ {(i)} + V _ {i n} ^ {(i + 1)} \tag {2.34}$$

where,

$$w = 2 - \left(1 + \frac {1}{2 k _ {\text {max}}}\right) ^ {i}, \quad C _ {I} = e ^ {(- 0. 0 5 t)} \text {and} \quad C _ {2} = \frac {e ^ {(0 . 0 5 t)}}{(1 + 0 . 0 5 e ^ {(0 . 0 5 t)})} \tag {2.35}$$

??= current number particle,

???????? = maximum number of iteration.

The objective or fitness function used here is integral squared error, as follows.

$$J (t) = \int_ {0} ^ {T} e ^ {2} (t) d t \tag {2.36}$$

MPSO algorithm is used here to choose the parameters of PID-SMC method i.e. the switching and function parameters, which will be working off-line. It is generating a number of solutions for equal number of particles, and its quality will be evaluated by objective function. The objective function will take into account both the speed of reaching manifold and amplitude of chattering.
