# A. Luenberger-like observer

Observer design of nonlinear systems belonging to the class (1) is a classical problem in control theory. In this regard, [20] was the first to study the problem and proposed a Luenbergerlike observer

$$\dot {\hat {x}} = A \hat {x} + G f (H \hat {x}) + L (y - C \hat {x}) \tag {7}$$

where $L \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } \times n _ { y } }$ is the gain matrix to be designed to ensure that the estimation error $e ( t ) = x ( t ) - { \hat { x } } ( t )$ satisfying

$$\dot {e} = (A - L C) e + G [ f (H x) - f (H \hat {x}) ]$$

asymptotically converges to zero.

1) Design using Lipschitz property: The design criteria proposed in [20] was very conservative and worked for a very small subset of applications. Subsequently, multiple approaches [21], [22], [43] attempted to reduce the conservativeness. However, all these methods, in one way or other, require that the Lipschitz constant ℓ is sufficiently small. As the nonlinearity in epidemic models is quadratic in nature, the Lipschitz constant (3) may turn out to be large. Thus, Lipschitz-based design criteria of Luenberger-like observers turn out to be infeasible for epidemic models.

2) Design using bounded Jacobian property: As the nonlinearity f is differentiable on the state space X , it has a bounded Jacobian. A design criterion using bounded Jacobian property is proposed in [44] for Luenberger-like observer (7). This criterion is based on the modified mean value theorem (MVT) for a vector-valued function $f : \mathcal X \to \mathbb R ^ { n _ { f } }$ , which postulates that, for any $x , { \hat { x } } \in { \mathcal { X } }$ ,

$$f (H x) - f (H \hat {x}) = (\overline {{\Delta}} \circ \overline {{D}} + \underline {{\Delta}} \circ \underline {{D}}) (H x - H \hat {x}) \tag {8}$$

where  denotes the Hadamard product and matrices $\overline { { \Delta } } =$ $[ \overline { { \delta } } _ { i j } ] , \overline { { D } } = [ \overline { { d } } _ { i j } ] , \underline { { \Delta } } = [ \underline { { \delta } } _ { i j } ] , \underline { { D } } = [ \underline { { d } } _ { i j } ]$ are defined such that $0 \leq \overline { { \delta } } _ { i j } , \underline { { \delta } } _ { i j } \leq 1$ with $\overline { { \delta } } _ { i j } + \underline { { \delta } } _ { i j } = 1$ , and $\overline { { d } } _ { i j } \geq \operatorname* { m a x } ( \partial f _ { i } / \partial x _ { j } )$ and $\underline { { d } } _ { i j } \le \operatorname* { m i n } ( \partial f _ { i } / \partial x _ { j } )$ . The proof of this modified MVT in [44] assumes an extended version of MVT saying that, for some $c \in \mathcal X$ , it holds
