# 2.1 Introduction

Sliding mode control (SMC) is a special case of variable structure control [35].
Sliding mode control methodology is based on the remark that it is much easier to control a first order system (i.e.
systems described by first order differential equation), be they nonlinear or uncertain, than to control a general $\mathrm { n } ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order system (i.e.
systems described by $\mathrm { n } ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order differential equation) [19].
Sliding mode control is applicable to nonlinear systems as it directly considers robustness issue as a part of the design process [42].
It is a nonlinear control method that alters the dynamics of a nonlinear system by application of a high frequency switching control [43].
The state-feedback control law is not a continuous function of time.
Instead, it switches from one continuous structure to another based on the current position in the state space.
Hence, sliding mode control is a variable structure control method [44-46].
The multiple control structures are designed so that trajectories always move toward a switching condition, and so the ultimate trajectory will not exist entirely within one control structure.
Instead, the ultimate trajectory will slide along the boundaries of the control structures [47-53].
The motion of the system as it slides along these boundaries is called a sliding mode and the geometrical locus consisting of the boundaries is called the sliding (hyper) surface.
The sliding surface is described by $s = 0$ , and the sliding mode along the surface commences after the finite time when system trajectories have reached the surface [56].
Intuitively, sliding mode control uses practically infinite gain to force the trajectories of the dynamic system to slide along the restricted sliding mode subspace.
Trajectories from this reduced-order sliding mode have desirable properties.
The system dynamic when confined to the sliding surface is described as an ideal sliding motion and represents the controlled system behaviour.
The advantages of obtaining such a motion are two-fold: Firstly, the system behaves as a system of reduced order with respect to the original plant;
and secondly the movement on the sliding surface of the system is insensitive to a particular kind of perturbation and model uncertainties.
The main strength of sliding mode control is its robustness.
