# I. Introduction

In [1], an event-triggered control algorithm was proposed for nonlinear time-delay systems. In the designed event-triggering condition, the exponential function $a e ^ { - b ( t - t _ { 0 } ) }$ with tunable parameters a and b plays a vital role in ensuring boundedness and attractivity of the system states while excluding Zeno behavior, a phenomenon that the control updates are triggered infinitely many

This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) under grants RGPIN-2020-03934 and PGPIN-2022-03144.   
K. Zhang is with the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada (e-mail: kexue.zhang@queensu.ca).   
B. Gharesifard is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA (e-mail: gharesifard@ucla.edu).   
E. Braverman is with the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada (e-mail: maelena@ucalgary.ca).

times over a finite time period. However, stability criterion with the proposed event-triggered control algorithm was not established in [1] when $a > 0$ .

In this note, we will show that event-triggered control systems with positive a in [1] actually are stable if the sufficient conditions in Theorem 2 (or Theorem 3) of [1] are satisfied. We will also prove that the positive parameter b can be chosen arbitrarily, whereas the results in [1] require the positive b to be upper bounded, in order to exclude Zeno behavior from the control system.

The rest of this note is organized as follows. In Section I, we rephrase the event-triggered control problem for general nonlinear time-delay systems considered in [1]. To show stability of the event-triggered control systems, a new Halanay-type inequality is introduced in Section III. Main results are presented in Section IV with some remarks to further elaborate the improvements achieved in this study. We illustrate the main results by a numerical example in Section V, and finally draw conclusions in Section VI.
