# 5.3. Learning optimal control policy using RNN

Having parameterized in Theorem 5.4 the search space identified in Section 4.4, here we describe an approach to train an optimal control policy adopting the RNN-based RL framework proposed in [9]. To simulate the trajectories for training the neural network controller (13), we use a first-order Euler discretization with stepsize $\Delta t$ for problem (5). Let K be the total number of timesteps. The discrete-time optimization problem is

$$
\begin{array}{l} \min _ {\phi} \frac {1}{K} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {K - 1} \gamma \| \omega (k) - \omega^ {\infty} \mathbf {1} _ {n} \| ^ {2} + \| u _ {\phi} (k) \| ^ {2} (14a) \\ \text { s.t. } \lambda (k) = \lambda (k - 1) + B ^ {\top} \omega (k - 1) \Delta t (14b) \\ M (\omega (k) - \omega (k - 1)) = [ - D \omega (k - 1) \\ \left. - B Y _ {b} \sin \lambda (k - 1) + u _ {\phi} (k - 1) + p \right] \Delta t. (14c) \\ \end{array}
$$

where $u _ { \phi } ~ = ~ [ u _ { 1 , \phi } , \ldots , u _ { n , \phi } ] ^ { \top }$ . The learning algorithm works as follows. At the beginning of the training process, all parameters in $\phi$ are randomly generated. Training is implemented in a batch updating style, where the initial states ω(0) and λ(0) in each batch are randomly generated. In each episode, we use the current control policy $u _ { \phi }$ to generate state trajectories of length K for all batches through dynamics (14b),(14c), and compute the loss function (14a). The trainable parameters ϕ are updated by gradient descent on the loss function (14a) and converge to a local optimum. Note that the training could be done in a distributed fashion, see e.g., [24, 25] and references therein, since the cost (14a) is separable and the controller (13) is distributed. The whole training process of the proposed reinforcement learning with budget (abbreviated RLb) algorithm is described in Algorithm 1.
