In the mentioned publications, it is assumed that the number of DERs available to the control system is constant. However, the availability of DERs can fluctuate over time for various reasons. For example, DERs may not be able to participate in the distribution grid control due to a lack of wind or the absence of solar radiation. In addition, discharged energy storage devices can lose their full flexibility potential. Also, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) errors or maintenance can cause DERs to be unavailable to the control system. For this reason, there is a need for an adaptive control system, which adjusts the control parameters based on the available DERs. Without an adaptation mechanism, the control parameters would have to be designed based on the worst available DER combinations in terms of stability. Therefore, static control parameters would result in low performance of the control system. In emergency situations, the activation time of a countermeasure can strongly influence the outcome of a fault [8]. Hence, a high control performance of the ADN can be essential to maintain power system stability.

Furthermore, [3], [5]–[7] assume that the dynamic behavior of the active and reactive setpoint tracking of DERs is known. However, Distribution System Operators (DSOs) have little to no information about the dynamic behavior of the DERs connected to their distribution grids. Creating detailed dynamic models of all DERs participating in the control loop requires a disproportionate effort. Therefore, the control system has to be designed by using simplified models of DERs. In doing so, model uncertainties must be taken into account.

This work extends the control concept from [5] to an adaptive and robust control system. For this purpose, an adaption mechanism based on the gain scheduling method is added to the control structure. In addition, this work presents a method for determining the control parameters of the gain scheduling controller. In order to determine the parameters, the DERs are modeled as simplified linear systems plus time delay. Because the real dynamic behavior of the DERs differs from the simplified models, an uncertainty analysis is carried out. In addition, the robustness and performance of the control system are considered.
