# Statement of Contributions

We study optimal transient frequency control in power systems with dynamics described by the swing equations. We formulate an optimization problem to identify control designs that minimize the frequency deviation from the equilibrium and the control cost over time while ensuring asymptotic stability and transient frequency safety in the presence of disturbances. Leveraging notions of $\mathrm { L y a } \cdot$ - punov stability and safety-critical control, we identify constraints on the distributed controller design whose satisfaction automatically guarantees that the closed-loop system remains stable and the transient frequency stays within the desired safety bounds. These constraints use budgets to break down the requirement of collectively satisfying an inequality to ensure stability into individual stability conditions, one per bus, in a way that is distributed and allows additional design flexibility for certain buses while having others compensate for it. These constraints define the search space of distributed, stable, and safe control policies. We leverage them to enforce appropriate structural constraints on neural networks so that the resulting parameterized controller belongs to the search space and can approximate with arbitrary accuracy any of its elements. Finally, we use a recurrent neural network (RNN)- based RL framework to learn the optimal parameters for these neural networks. Simulation results of the designed controllers on the IEEE 39-bus power system validate their guaranteed stability and transient safety as well as their significantly improved optimality.
