# 2.2. Graph theory

Here we present some basic notions in graph theory [17]. Let $\mathcal { G } ~ = ~ ( \mathcal { T } , \mathcal { E } )$ be an undirected graph, where $\mathcal { L } =$ $\{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ is the node set and $\mathcal { E } = \{ e _ { 1 } , \ldots , e _ { m } \} \subseteq \mathcal { T } \times \mathcal { I }$ is the edge set. Two nodes are neighbors if there exists an edge linking them. We denote by ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { i }$ the set of neighbors of node i. A path is an ordered sequence of nodes such that any pair of consecutive nodes in the sequence is an edge of the graph. The graph G is connected if there exists a path between any pair of nodes. The adjacency matrix A is defined by $[ \mathcal { A } ] _ { i j } > 0 ~ \mathrm { i f } ~ i$ and j are neighbors, 0 otherwise. The Laplacian matrix L is defined as $[ \mathcal { L } ] _ { i j } = - [ \mathcal { A } ] _ { i j }$ for $i \neq j$ , and $\begin{array} { r } { [ \mathcal { L } ] _ { i i } = \sum _ { j = 1 , j \neq i } ^ { n } [ A ] _ { i j } } \end{array}$ . The value 0 is an eigenvalue of $\mathcal { L }$ with eigenvector ${ \bf 1 } _ { n }$ . This eigenvalue is simple if and only if the graph is connected. For each edge $e _ { k } \in \mathcal { E }$ with nodes $i , j$ , we assign an arbitrary orientation so that either i or $j$ is the source of $e _ { k }$ and the other node is the target of $e _ { k }$ . Then the incidence matrix $B = ( d _ { i k } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ of graph $\mathcal { G }$ is defined as

$$
d _ {i k} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text { if   node } i \text { is   the   source   of   edge } e _ {k} \\ - 1 & \text { if   node } i \text { is   the   target   of   edge } e _ {k} \\ 0 & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right.
$$
