# B. Reference Control Loop Model

For the calculation of the lookup table $C P$ and the analysis in Section V, reference control loop models are used. In order to implement the reference control loop model, the following parameters of the DERs are necessary:

• installed active power $P _ { \mathrm { i n s t } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ (for Q-control $Q _ { \mathrm { i n s t } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } } )$   
• reaction time $T _ { \mathrm { d e l a y } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } } ,$ T DERdelay,d, and   
• rise time $T _ { \mathrm { r i s e } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ (from 10 % to 90 %).

Each DER d is represented by the transfer function

$$G _ {\mathrm{PT1}, d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} (s) = e ^ {- T _ {\text { delay }, d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} \cdot s} \cdot \frac {K _ {d}}{1 + T _ {d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} \cdot s}. \tag {6}$$

Eq. 6 consists of a delay and a first-order transfer function. Based on the rise time $T _ { \mathrm { r i s e } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ , an equivalent time constant $T _ { d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ for the first-order transfer function can be calculated by

$$T _ {d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} = \frac {T _ {\text { rise } , d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}}}{2 . 1 9 7}. \tag {7}$$

The denominator of 2.197 can be determined from the step response of any first-order transfer function. The time constant $T _ { d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ d is calculated using $T _ { \mathrm { r i s e } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } } ,$ since the rise time can be determined directly from a step response. Thus, an equivalent first-order transfer function can be determined from a step response (see Section IV). The gain $K _ { d }$ is described by

$$K _ {d} = w _ {a} \cdot P _ {\text { inst }, d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}}, \tag {8}$$

where $w _ { a } \ ( a \in A _ { n } )$ is an individual scaling factor of each DER. For each possible set of actuators $A _ { n } .$ , a reference plant model is created by

$$G _ {A _ {n}} ^ {\mathrm{DERs}} (s) = \sum_ {a \in A _ {n}} G _ {a} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} (s). \tag {9}$$

The open-loop transfer function is

$$G _ {A _ {n}} ^ {\mathrm{OL}} (s) = G _ {\mathrm{PI}} (s) \cdot G _ {\mathrm{Com}} (s) \cdot G _ {A _ {n}} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} (s). \tag {10}$$

The PI-Controller is described by

$$G _ {\mathrm{PI}} (s) = \frac {\frac {K _ {\mathrm{P}}}{K _ {\mathrm{I}}} \cdot s + K _ {\mathrm{P}}}{\frac {K _ {\mathrm{P}}}{K _ {\mathrm{I}}} \cdot s}, \tag {11}$$

the ICT-communication by

$$G _ {\mathrm{Com}} (s) = e ^ {- T _ {\mathrm{com}} \cdot s}, \tag {12}$$

and the feedback sensor by

$$G _ {\mathrm{M}} (s) = e ^ {- T _ {\mathrm{meas}} \cdot s}, \tag {13}$$
