# B. Stabilizing reinforcement learning via Lyapunov techniques

Lyapunov theory and its stochastic generalization due to R. Khasminskii [32] are the recognized standard when it comes to stability analyses. Already in the beginning of the 2000s, Lyapunov theory was used to design stabilizing reinforcement learning by Perkins and Barto [16], [22]. The latter work meant to design or restrict the action choices of the agent so that on of the Lyapunov theorems applies. A variety such approaches were developed since. For instance, [17] suggested a stabilitypreserving Bellman operator ensure the current cost-to-go function estimate satisfy a Lyapunov condition. The approach required iterations over a region in the state space and also that the baseline (stabilizing) policy be sufficiently close to the optimal one. Berkenkamp et al. [33] used state space splitting to verify a Lyapunov condition in each cell. The approach needed certain confidence intervals on the statistical model of the environment. Lyapunov techniques were employed in [20] along with elements of adaptive control. This approach tacitly assumed the input-coupling function be bounded away from zero to effectively employ a kind of high-gain compensation of the sign-indefinite terms in the final Lyapunov condition (see Section IV in the said work, in particular, formula 45). Such an assumption is fairly restrictive and the high-gain compensation might neutralize the effects of learning, while harming minimal interference.

Also, techniques of adaptive control were used in stabilizing approximate optimal control for environments with partially unknown models as per [34]. In [20] and [34], the cost-togo function was effectively used as the Lyapunov function candidate for the state. The drift was assumed linear in unknown parameters and the input-coupling function was assumed uniformly bounded. An overview of such techniques, that employ adaptive control in reinforcement learning, can be found in [35].
