# A. Structure of the Adaptive Control System

This paper extends the CPFC from [5] by an adaption mechanism. Fig. 2 illustrates an overview of the structure of the adaptive control system. A detailed description of the control system can be found in [5]. In general, the control loop consists of a PI-based controller, ICT-communication, the DERs, and a feedback sensor. The controller gets the error signal $P _ { \mathrm { e r r } } .$ , which is the deviation between reference value $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ and measurement value $P _ { \mathrm { m e a s } }$ . Based on $P _ { \mathrm { e r r } } .$ the controller determines a correcting variable $P _ { \mathrm { Y } }$ , which is transferred via ICT-communication to the DERs. Each DER has its own local controller that processes the signal $P _ { \mathrm { Y } }$ . The setpoint of each DER PDER $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ results from

$$P _ {\text { ref }, d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} = P _ {\mathrm{Y}} \cdot C _ {d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}} + P _ {\text { sched }, d} ^ {\mathrm{DER}}, \tag {1}$$

whereby $C _ { d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ is the factor of participation in the control loop, and P DERsched, $P _ { \mathrm { s c h e d } , d } ^ { \mathrm { D E R } }$ d is the schedule of the DER d ∈ D, where D $d \in D ,$ is the set of all DERs that participate in the control loop. In this work, $C _ { d } ^ { \mathrm { { D E R } } }$ is set to the installed power of each DER. Based on $P _ { \mathrm { Y } }$ , the DERs change their infeed into the electrical grid. The goal of the control system is to control the interconnection power flow $P _ { \mathrm { I P } }$ to a higher voltage level. The electrical grid and the loads are not considered in the structure of Fig. 2. This simplifications are justified in Section III-B. Due to the simplifications, the control loop shown in Fig. 2 controls the infeed of all DERs $P _ { \mathrm { D E R s } }$ instead of $P _ { \mathrm { I P } }$ .
