# Literature Review

Transient stability of power systems refers to its ability to regain operating equilibrium after disturbances, while retaining the state within operational margins. The literature has investigated optimal frequency control design for improving transient stability, e.g., load-side control [1, 2], droop coefficient design [3], and proportional-derivative control [4], to mention a few. These methods either rely on designing optimal linear feedback controllers offline or solving optimization problems in real time to obtain optimal control policies. While these approaches ensure transient stability, they do not strictly guarantee transient safety, as the frequency may enter unsafe regions before convergence. To address this, [5] combined Lyapunov stability analysis and safety-control methods to ensure both stability and transient safety. This approach was further combined with model predictive control in [6, 7] to minimize the control effort by enhancing the cooperation among the nodes, at the cost of a significantly heavier computational burden.

Recent research has employed data-driven methods to improve frequency control design without the restriction for the controllers to be linear or the need to solve computationally complex optimization problems in real time. Reinforcement learning (RL) has emerged as an attractive method to learn such control policies offline, see e.g., [8]. In general, stability and safety of the closed-loop system are not guaranteed without additional design constraints on the learned policies. This has resulted in a number of works that developed stability [9–13] or safety [14–16] guaranteed RL approaches to learn optimal controllers for frequency [9, 10, 13, 14] and voltage control [11, 12, 15, 16] in power systems. With respect to previous work, the main novelty here is that we develop an RL-based approach that jointly guarantees stability and transient frequency safety. To achieve this, we go beyond purely decentralized controller designs and leverage the distributed cooperation among agents, so that they can share the disturbance to be balanced and ensure system stability.
