Mei, J., Xiao, C., Szepesvari, C., and Schuurmans, D. On the global convergence rates of softmax policy gradient methods. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 6820–6829. PMLR, 2020.   
Mohan, A., Chattopadhyay, A., and Kumar, A. Hybrid mac protocols for low-delay scheduling. In 2016 IEEE 13th International Conference on Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), pp. 47–55, Los Alamitos, CA, USA, oct 2016. IEEE Computer Society.   
Mohan, A., Gopalan, A., and Kumar, A. Throughput optimal decentralized scheduling with single-bit state feedback for a class of queueing systems. ArXiv, abs/2002.08141, 2020.   
Neu, G. Explore no more: Improved high-probability regret bounds for non-stochastic bandits. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 28, pp. 3168– 3176. Curran Associates, Inc., 2015.   
Osband, I., Russo, D., and Van Roy, B. (more) efficient reinforcement learning via posterior sampling. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 26, pp. 3003–3011. Curran Associates, Inc., 2013.   
Ouyang, Y., Gagrani, M., Nayyar, A., and Jain, R. Learning unknown markov decision processes: A thompson sampling approach. In NIPS, 2017.   
Peters, J. and Schaal, S. Natural actor-critic. Neurocomputing, 71(7):1180–1190, 2008. ISSN 0925-2312. Progress in Modeling, Theory, and Application of Computational Intelligenc.   
Radac, M.-B. and Precup, R.-E. Data-driven model-free slip control of anti-lock braking systems using reinforcement q-learning. Neurocomput., 275(C):317–329, January 2018.   
Rummery, G. A. and Niranjan, M. On-line q-learning using connectionist systems. Technical report, 1994.   
Schulman, J., Levine, S., Abbeel, P., Jordan, M., and Moritz, P. Trust region policy optimization. In Bach, F. and Blei, D. (eds.), Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 37 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 1889–1897, Lille, France, 07–09 Jul 2015. PMLR.   
Schulman, J., Wolski, F., Dhariwal, P., Radford, A., and Klimov, O. Proximal policy optimization algorithms, 2017.   
Shani, L., Efroni, Y., and Mannor, S. Adaptive trust region policy optimization: Global convergence and faster rates for regularized mdps. ArXiv, abs/1909.02769, 2020.
