# B. Expanded Survey of Related Work

In this section, we provide a detailed survey of related works. It is vital to distinguish the approach investigated in the present paper from the plethora of existing algorithms based on ’proper learning’. Essentially, these algorithms try to find an (approximately) optimal policy for the MDP under investigation. These approaches can broadly be classified in two groups: model-based and model-free.

The former is based on first learning the dynamics of the unknown MDP followed by planning for this learnt model. Algorithms in this class include Thompson Sampling-based approaches (Osband et al., 2013; Ouyang et al., 2017; Gopalan & Mannor, 2015), Optimism-based approaches such as the UCRL algorithm (Auer et al., 2009), both achieving order-wise√ optimal $\mathcal { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret bound.

A particular class of MDPs which has been studied extensively is the Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) which is a continuous state-action MDP with linear state dynamics and quadratic cost (Dean et al., 2017). Let $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ be the current state and let $u _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be the action applied at time t. The infinite horizon average cost minimization problem for LQR is to find a policy to choose actions $\{ u _ { t } \} _ { t \geqslant 1 }$ so as to minimize

$$\lim _ {T \to \infty} \mathbb {E} \left[ \frac {1}{T} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {T} x _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{T}} Q x _ {t} + u _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{T}} R u _ {t} \right]$$

such that $x _ { t + 1 } = A x _ { t } + B u _ { t } + n ( t )$ , n(t) is iid zero-mean noise. Here the matrices A and B are unknown to the learner. Earlier works like (Abbasi-Yadkori & Szepesvari ´ , 2011; Ibrahimi et al., 2012) proposed algorithms based on the well-known√ optimism principle (with confidence ellipsoids around estimates of A and B). These show regret bounds of $\mathcal { O } ( \sqrt { T } )$ .
