A key reason for using feedback is to reduce the effects of uncertainty which may appear in different forms as disturbances or as other imperfections in the models used to design the feedback law.
Model uncertainty and robustness have been a central theme in the development of the field of automatic control.
Controlling a nonlinear dynamical system in presence of heavy uncertainty conditions is the mainstay of this thesis.
Considerable advancements have been made in robust control techniques such as adaptive control, model predictive control, H-infinity control and backstepping.
However these control approaches can only deal with linear system or the linearized models of the nonlinear systems.
A more advanced solution for the nonlinear system is Sliding-Mode Control (SMC) since it is simpler than other controllers like Hinfinity and it can deal with both uncertain linear and nonlinear systems.
Sliding mode control is the principle operation mode of VSC, characterized by high simplicity and robustness [44- 46].
The concept of variable structure control (VSC) was proposed and elaborated in the early 1950’s by Emelyanov [30-32] in Soviet Union, considering only linear second-order systems.
Since then, VSC has developed into a general design method for nonlinear systems, multiinput multi-output systems, discrete time models and stochastic systems [34-36].
The most distinguishing feature of VSC is its ability to result in very robust or invariant control system.
Loosely speaking, the term ‘invariant’ means that the system is completely insensitive to parametric uncertainties and external disturbances.
“Variable structure control systems” refers to a class of systems whereby the “control law” is deliberately changed during the control process according to some defined rules which depend on the state of the system [35, 37-38].
It utilizes discontinuous control law which drives the systems state trajectory onto the sliding or switching surface in the state space and to keep the system state onto the sliding manifold for all subsequent times.
Therefore, control input is designed to overcome the uncertainties and disturbances acting on real dynamical systems.
Main advantages of sliding mode control are its behavior as a reduced order plant when on the sliding manifold, and its insensitivity towards model uncertainties and disturbances [47-48].
