Fig. 5: Flow chart of the sub-functions for determining the lookup table $C P$ and the sets of scaling factors $W _ { n }$

$K _ { \mathrm { I } }$ . The initial values must be outside of the feasible solution space. In this work, the Matlab function pidtune with default options is used for this purpose. The initial values determined by pidtune do not meet the high robustness requirements for the control system regarded here, which is why these parameters are suitable as initial parameters.

In the next step, $K _ { \mathrm { I } } ^ { \mathrm { S t a r t } }$ is set to the product of $K _ { \mathrm { I } } ^ { \mathrm { I n i t } }$ and the step size. It should be mentioned that the algorithm is performed successively with two different step sizes. In a first run, the step size is 0.01, and in a second run, the step size is 0.001. In the second run, the initial and start values of $K _ { \mathrm { P } }$ and $K _ { \mathrm { I } }$ are set to the output of the first run. In this way, computing time can be reduced. After setting $K _ { \mathrm { I } } ^ { \mathrm { S t a r t } }$ , Path Search starts from the upper left corner of the examined solution space (see Fig. 6).

Next, Path Search builds $G _ { A _ { n } } ^ { \mathrm { C L } } ( s )$ according to Eq. 6 to Eq. 14 $\begin{array} { l r } { \gamma _ { w _ { a } } ~ = ~ 1 ) } \end{array}$ and determines the disk margin and overshooting. The disk margin and overshooting are calculated with the Matlab functions diskmargin and stepinfo [24]. Then $K _ { \mathrm { P } }$ is reduced according to Eq. 16 until a feasible solution is found. In doing so, the algorithm checks whether a feasible solution has already been found by comparing $K _ { \mathrm { I } }$ with $K _ { \mathrm { I } } ^ { \mathrm { S t a r t } }$ $( K _ { \mathrm { I } } > K _ { \mathrm { I } } ^ { \mathrm { S t a r t } } )$ . As soon as a feasible solution is found, the parameter $K _ { \mathrm { I } }$ is increased according to Eq. 17 until again a non-feasible solution is found.
