• We develop a gradient-based RL algorithm to iteratively tune a softmax parameterization of an improper (mixture) policy defined over the base controllers (Algorithm 1). While this algorithm, Softmax Policy Gradient (or Softmax PG), relies on the availability of value function gradients, we later propose a modification that we call GradEst (see Alg. 6 in appendix) to Softmax PG to rectify this. GradEst uses a combination of rollouts and Simultaneously Perturbed Stochastic Approximation (SPSA) (Borkar, 2008) to estimate the value gradient at the current mixture distribution.   
• We show a convergence rate of O(1/t) to the optimal value function for finite state-action MDPs. To do this, we employ a novel Non-uniform Łojasiewicz-type inequality (Łojasiewicz, 1963), that lower bounds the 2-norm of the value gradient in terms of the suboptimality of the current mixture policy’s value. Essentially, this helps establish that when the gradient of the value function hits zero, the value function is itself close to the optimum.   
• Policy-gradient methods are well-known to suffer from high variance (Peters & Schaal, 2008; Bhatnagar et al., 2009). To circumvent this issue, we develop an algorithm that can switch between a simple Actor-Critic (AC) based scheme and a Natural Actor-Critic (NAC) scheme depending on the available information. The algorithm, ‘ACIL’ (Sec. 5), executes on a single sample path, without requiring any forced resets, as is common in many RL algorithms. We provide convergence rate guarantees to a stationary point in the basic AC case and to a global optimum in the NAC case, under some additional (but standard) assumptions (of uniform ergodicty). The total complexity of AC is measured to attain an (ε+ Critic error)-accurate stationary point. The total complexity of NAC is measured to attain an (ε +

Critic error + Actor error)-accurate stationary point. We use linear function approximation to approximate the value function and our convergence analysis show exactly how this approximation affects the final complexity bound.
