Remark 4.3. The quantity $c _ { t }$ in the statement is the minimum probability that SoftMax PG puts on the controllers for which the best mixture $\pi ^ { * }$ has positive probability mass. Empirical evidence (Sec. 6) makes us conjecture that lim $c _ { t }$ t→∞ is positive, which shows a convergence rate of $\mathcal { O } \left( 1 / t \right)$ .

Remark 4.4. The proof of the above theorem uses the $\beta -$ smoothness property of the value function under the softmax parameterization along with a new non-uniform Łojaseiwicz-type inequality (NUŁI) for our probabilistic mixture class, which lower bounds the magnitude of the gradient of the value function, which we mention below.

Lemma 4.5 (NULI). $\left\| \frac{\partial}{\partial\theta} V^{\pi_{\theta}}(\mu)\right\|_{2} \geqslant \frac{1}{\sqrt{M}} \left( \min_{m: \pi_{\theta_m}^* > 0} \pi_{\theta_m} \right) \times \left\| \frac{d_\rho^{\pi^*}}{d_\mu^{\pi_\theta}} \right\|_{\infty}^{-1} \times [V^*(\rho) - V^{\pi_\theta}(\rho)]$ .

The proof of Theorem 4.2, then follows by an induction argument over $t \geqslant 1$ .

Technical Challenges. We note here that while the basic recipe for the analysis of Theorem 4.2 is similar to (Mei et al., 2020), our setting does not directly inherit the intuition of standard PG (sPG) analysis. (1) With $| S \times \mathcal { A } | < \infty$ , the sPG analysis critically depends on the fact that a deterministic optimal policy exists and shows convergence to it. In contrast, in our setting, $\pi ^ { * }$ could be a strictly randomized mixture of the base controllers (see Sec. 2). (2) A crucial step in sPG analysis is establishing that the value function $V ^ { \pi } ( s ) , \forall s \in \mathcal { S }$ increases monotonically with time such that parameter of the optimal action $\theta _ { s , a ^ { * } } \uparrow \infty$ . In the appendix, we supply a simple counterexample showing that monotonicity of the V function is not guaranteed in our setting for every $s \in S .$ . (3) The value function gradient in sPG has no ‘cross contamination’ from other states, in the sense that modifying the parameter at one state does not affect the values of the others. This plays a crucial part in simplifying the proof of global convergence to the optimal policy in sPG analysis. Our setting cannot leverage this property since the value function gradient at a given controller possesses contributions from all states.
