# 1.3 Research Objective

The non-linear systems are very hard to analyze and control explicitly. However, qualitative and numerical techniques may help in descripting some information on the behavior of the solutions. It is always advantageous to consider the non-linearities directly while analyzing and designing controllers for such systems. Designing of a Sliding mode controller based on a PID-type sliding surface is mainly aimed to control the nonlinear dynamic systems. To tune the three parameters, which are proportional $( \mathrm { K _ { p } } )$ , integral (Ki) and derivative (Kd) of the controller are approximated using Modified PSO. This can be a solution for non-linear dynamical systems which is the designing of sliding mode controller directly using PID-type sliding surface, whose advantages are:

no approximation approach   
handles the non-linear system directly   
can handle the nonlinearities in large range operation as well   
very high convergence rate

The overall objective of this thesis is to develop a sliding mode controller structure based on PID-type sliding surfaces whose parameters are tuned by modified PSO algorithm forming a solution to non-linear dynamical systems.

1. Justification of traditional sliding mode controllers towards non-linear dynamical systems.   
2. A PID-type sliding surface based sliding mode controller structure with the concept of internal feedback and parameters tuned using modified PSO algorithm.   
3. A novel controller structure with PI-type sliding surface based second order sliding mode controller in feed forward path along with PD-type sliding surface based sliding mode controller in feedback path with stability analysis.   
4. Finally, the implementation of the controller structure was performed on SimMechanics model of an Inverted Pendulum and others like conical tank and van der pol’s equation.
