# Aim of the controller

Design a control law to effectively account for: the parametric uncertainty (imprecision on mass properties, inaccuracies on torque constant), and the presence of unmodelled dynamics (neglected time-delays etc.).   
Quantify the resulting modeling/performance trade-offs, and in particular, the effect on tracking performance of discarding any particular term in the dynamic model.

Sliding mode control methodology is based on a notational simplification, which amounts to replacing an $\mathrm { n } ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order tracking problem by a $1 ^ { \mathrm { s t } }$ order stabilization problem. The main advantages of the sliding mode control approach are the simplicity of design and implementation, the high efficiency and the robustness with respect to matched uncertainties. However, it has been shown that imperfections in switching devices and delays were inducing a high frequency motion called chattering. Chattering and high control activity was the reasons that fomented a generalized criticism towards sliding mode control. To avoid chattering some approaches were proposed. The main idea was to change the dynamics in a small vicinity of the discontinuity surface in order to avoid real discontinuity and at the same time preserve the main property of the whole system. However, the trajectories of the controlled system remain in a small neighborhood of the surface and the robustness of the sliding mode was partially lost. The most recent and interesting approach for the elimination of chattering is represented by the second order sliding mode methodology.
