b) Model-free Reinforcement Learning: Complementary to model-based analyses, so-called “model-free” control problems [13], [29], [43], [46], [53] or such with partially unknown dynamics [11], [30] have been gaining interest. The unknown part may, e. g., be approximated by a parametric structure after which a model-based analysis can be conducted [8], [26], [53]. Remaining model uncertainties which may be interpreted as external disturbances were investigated in, e. g., [54], [55] or handled by the aforementioned ICQs in [16]. Integral reinforcement learning may even omit requiring (and thus modeling) the systems drift dynamics (see, e. g., [32]). Though the control design may be model free, certain assumptions on the dynamics are required to ensure closed loop properties such as, e. g., second-order differentiability [8] or linearity [46] on the uncertain dynamics. As was noted in, e. g., [6], such assumptions are critical in particular for safety aspects.

c) Convergence Results: For either model-based or model-free online reinforcement learning, exploration of the state space is desirable when addressing convergence of controller and/or cost approximants to their respective best fit under a selected approximating structure. Ultimate uniform boundedness (UUB) denotes one specific notion of stability which can be found frequently for controller and cost approximant parameters (as well as possibly the closed loop state) [12], [31], [48], [49], [53]. A repeatedly observable property (in preceding listed references) is the dependence of convergence bounds on the choice of approximant and related approximation errors. Though adjustable through offline training experience, it may be unsuitable for online learning approaches on problems.

In conclusion, closed loop stability is a result of specific construction of the controller’s learning rule as well as that of the cost approximation; most commonly gradient or optimization based. While offline trained approximants, remaining fixed during the de facto control process (refer to, e. g., [40] and references therein), may offer more possibilities in state space exploration, (purely) online learning controllers base experience on the current trajectory. Subsequently, risky, e. g., stability harming, control actions must be carefully addressed and still requires significant research efforts.
