# IV. LEARNING FROM NOISY DATA

In this section, we consider system (1) with d not identically equal to 0. With noisy data, the analysis and the design of the event-triggered controller become sensibly more involved, and the reason is twofold. First, noisy data prevent us from obtaining an exact data-based representation of the closedloop behavior as in Lemma 1. In fact, more generally, noisy data prevent exact identification, whether this involves the closed-loop dynamics (Lemma 1) or open-loop dynamics (the matrices A and B). Second, disturbances impact not only the learning phase but, subsequently, also the behavior of the closed-loop system. In particular, Zeno phenomenon may arise in this case with the triggering rule built in Section III-C even for arbitrarily small disturbances, as demonstrated in [18].

Because we do not assume that the disturbance d is vanishing, we can no longer hope to prove that $x = 0$ is globally exponentially stable for the considered closed-loop system as in Theorems 1 and 2. We will establish instead a (global) practical exponential ISS property, i.e., that there exist $c _ { 1 } \geqslant 1$ , $c _ { 2 } , c _ { 3 } , c _ { 4 } > 0$ such any solution x to (1) with input disturbance d in closed-loop with (2) satisfies

$$| x (t) | \leqslant c _ {1} e ^ {- c _ {2} t} | x (0) | + c _ {3} \| d \| _ {[ 0, t ]} + c _ {4} \nu , \tag {20}$$

where $\nu \geqslant 0$ is an extra tuning parameter we will introduce to design the triggering rule. When (20) holds with $\nu = 0$ , we say that the system is exponentially ISS for system (1), (2).

As in Section III, we first design the control law ignoring sampling and we then present the design of the triggering policy. Two triggering techniques are presented and discussed in this section, whether these lead to (practical) exponential ISS. Again, the extension of the presented results to other triggering conditions is addressed in Section V.
