The remainder of this paper is as follows. We introduce the framework of interest in Section II. We then first concentrate on the noise-free case to put in place the required background and techniques in Section III. The main results dedicated to noisy systems are provided in Section IV, where we establish (practical) ISS properties as well as the existence of a global minimum inter-event time. The extension to other triggering policies is presented in Section V. Section VI ends the paper with concluding remarks, and the appendix contains a couple of additional technical results. Throughout the paper we give numerical examples to substantiate the analysis.

Notation. $ { \mathbb { N } } _ { 0 } : = \{ 0 , 1 , 2 , \dots \}$ denotes the set of non-negative integers and $\mathbb { N } : = \mathbb { N } _ { 0 } \backslash \{ 0 \} . \mathbb { R }$ stands for the set of real numbers, $\mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } : = [ 0 , \infty )$ and $\mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } : = ( 0 , \infty )$ . Given a symmetric matrix M, the notation $M \succ 0 \ ( M \succeq 0 )$ and $M \prec 0 \ ( M \preceq 0 )$ means that M is positive and, respectively, negative (semi)- definite. Given a matrix $M , M ^ { \top }$ denotes the transpose of M . The notation I and 0 stand for the identity matrix and the zero matrix, respectively, whose dimensions deFor the sake of convenience, we write $\left[ \begin{array} { l l } { A } & { B } \\ { \star } & { C } \end{array} \right]$ n thefor $\left[ \begin{array} { c } { { A } } \\ { { B ^ { \top } } } \end{array} \right]$ where $A , B , C$ are matrices of appropriate dimensions. The induced 2-norm of a matrix is denoted } ¨ }. Given $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ with $n , m \in \mathbb { N } ,$ , we use the notation $( x , y )$ to denote $( x ^ { \top } , y ^ { \top } ) ^ { \top }$ . Given $x , y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ with $n \in \mathbb { N } , \langle x , y \rangle = x ^ { \top } y$ is the dot product. For $d : \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ with $n \in \mathbb { N } .$ , the supremum of d on r0, ts with $t \geqslant 0$ is $\| d \| _ { [ 0 , t ] } : = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { s \in [ 0 , t ] } | d ( s ) |$ , and $\| d \| _ { \infty } : = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { t \geqslant 0 } | d ( t ) |$ , where | ¨ | denotes the Euclidean norm.
