# A. Quadratic policies

The triggering rule designed for the noise-free case in Section III-C, which has then been “robustified” in Section IV, is a special type of quadratic policies [4]. We can extend these results to triggering policies based on more general quadratic forms, which may be advantageous to reduce the number of transmissions. We first explain how this can be done in the noise-free case.

The triggering rule in (10) developed when $d \equiv 0$ in (1) is a special type of the general quadratic policy: $t _ { 0 } = 0$ and

$$
t _ {k + 1} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R}: t > t _ {k} \text {   and   } z (t) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\Psi} z (t) = 0 \right\} & \\ & \text { if   } x (t _ {k}) \neq 0, \\ + \infty & \text { otherwise }, \end{array} \right. \tag {45}
$$

with $\widetilde { \Psi } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ symmetric to be designed. In Section III-C, we focused on the special case where $\tilde { \Psi } = \Psi ( \sigma )$ and $\Psi ( \sigma )$ as in (9) but other choices of $\widetilde { \Psi }$ are possible as suggested by the model-based results in, e.g., [3], [4]. To synthesize $\widetilde { \Psi } \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ in (45), we follow a similar approach as in Theorem $^ { 2 , }$ as formalized next.

Proposition 1: Suppose Assumption 1 holds and consider system (7), (8), (45) with $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ , Y being any solution to (6). Let $\widetilde { \Psi } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ symmetric, $\mu , \sigma > 0$ be such that the next SDP (in the decision variables $\mu , \sigma ^ { 2 }$ and $ { \widetilde { \Psi } } )$ is satisfied

$$
\begin{array}{r l} \mu M - \widetilde {\Psi} & <   0 \\ \widetilde {\Psi} & \leq \Psi (\sigma), \end{array} \tag {46}
$$

with $\Psi ( \sigma )$ and M as in (9) and (11), respectively, $S \ =$ $( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ , and L as in (13). Then the following holds.

(a) The system admits $\tau ( \sigma )$ defined in item (a) of Theorem 2 as global minimum inter-event time with σ as in (46).   
(b) The origin of the system is globally exponentially stable. l

Proof. We first note that (46) is feasible as it is satisfied with $\tilde { \Psi } \stackrel { } { = } \Psi ( \sigma )$ for some small enough $\sigma > 0$ according to the proof of Theorem 2.
