where $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times s }$ is a known matrix, and we make the next assumption.

Assumption $2 \colon D _ { 0 } \in { \mathcal { D } } .$ .

The choice of set D reflects our prior information or guess about disturbance d. For instance, if we know that there exists $\delta > 0$ such that $\| d \| _ { \infty } \leqslant \delta$ like in [15], then we can take $\Delta : = \delta \sqrt { T } I$ , where we recall that T is the number of samples. Stochastic disturbances can also be accounted for (possibly with other choices of $\Delta )$ as advocated in [37], [38].

We aim at enforcing the next inequality instead of (6a)

$$(X _ {1} - D) Y + Y ^ {\top} (X _ {1} - D) ^ {\top} + \Omega < 0 \quad \forall D \in \mathcal {D} \tag {23}$$

where $\Omega \succ 0$ is a free design parameter. By ensuring (23), we will see that system ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = ( X _ { 1 } - D ) G x ( t ) + d ( t )$ is exponentially ISS given any $D \in { \mathcal { D } } .$ , and therefore for $D = D _ { 0 }$ in view of Assumption 2. Large sets D make the condition $D _ { 0 } \in \mathcal { D }$ easier to hold but make (23) more difficult to satisfy.

Condition (23) cannot be implemented directly as it involves infinitely many constraints. The next result provides a tractable (convex) sufficient condition for (23) to hold, thereby extending Theorem 1 to the case of noisy data.

Theorem 3: Consider stabilizable system (1) and suppose the following holds.

(i) Assumptions 1 and 2 hold with ∆ given.   
(ii) Let $\Omega \succ 0$ , there exist $\epsilon > 0$ and $Y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { T \times n }$ such that

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} X _ {1} Y + (X _ {1} Y) ^ {\top} + \Omega + \epsilon \Delta \Delta^ {\top} & Y ^ {\top} \\ Y & - \epsilon I \end{array} \right] <   0, \tag {24a}
X _ {0} Y > 0. \tag {24b}$$

Let $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ , then ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = ( A + B K ) x ( t ) + d ( t )$ is exponentially ISS. l

The proof of Theorem 3 rests on the next result, which we prove in Appendix B to not overload the exposition.

Lemma 3: Suppose there exist a scalar $\epsilon > 0$ and a matrix $Y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { T \times n }$ such that (24a) holds. Then (23) holds. l
