Practical stability commonly arises from consideration of system properties in sampled settings [10]. The controller and cost approximant, which are sought to satisfy these stability conditions, are trained online via reinforcement learning rules. An adaptive control Lyapunov function is assumed to be known for the reinforcement learning control design. The stability conditions that are posed as learning conditions are checked at each sampling instance, though they may be embedded into the related optimization routine as constraints. If a violation of these conditions is detected, the nominal stabilizing controller associated with the adaptive control Lyapunov function is invoked. By this approach, practical stability of the closed loop is assured.

In the following Section II, preliminary tools are introduced including the adaptive control framework used to embed reinforcement learning mechanisms reviewed thereafter. Furthermore, the sample-and-hold approach is reviewed leading along with practical stability. Then, based on the foregoing insight, a learning based adaptive controller algorithm is proposed. Section III covers the closed loop analysis and concludes closed loop practical stability. Two case studies in Section IV demonstrate the efficacy of the approach on processes to which an adaptive control Lyapunov function is available.

Notation: A closed ball of radius $r > 0$ centered at $z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is denoted by $\boldsymbol { B } _ { r } ( z )$ , while $ { \boldsymbol { B } } _ { r } : =  { \boldsymbol { B } } _ { r } ( 0 )$ for brevity. The inner product is denoted as $\langle \bullet , \bullet \rangle$ . For any $z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and positive semi-definite $H \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n } , \ \| z \|$ denotes the two-norm while $\lVert H \rVert$ denotes a matrix norm and $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( H )$ as well as $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( H )$ the smallest and largest eigenvalue, respectively. The partial derivative of $J ( z ) \in \mathbb { R }$ with respect to $z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is denoted by $\nabla _ { z } J ( z ) = \partial J ( z ) / \partial z$ , being a column vector.
