Because of the second inequality in (46), given any solution x to system (7), (8), (45), at any transmission time $t _ { k }$ with $k \in \mathcal { N } , t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k }$ is greater than or equal the time it takes for $z ^ { \top } \Psi ( \sigma ) z$ to grow from $( x ( t _ { k } ) , 0 ) ^ { \top } \Psi ( \sigma ) ( x ( t _ { k } ) , 0 )$ to 0, which corresponds to the inter-transmission time we would obtain with (10) starting at $x ( t _ { k } )$ . Item (a) of Theorem 2 ensures the latter is lower bounded by $\tau ( \sigma )$ in (18). As a consequence, $t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k } \geqslant \tau ( \sigma )$ and since we have taken an arbitrary solution x and an arbitrary $k \in \mathcal N$ , item (a) of Proposition 1 holds. The proof of item (b) of Proposition 1 follows the same steps as the proof of item (b) of Theorem 2 in view of the first inequality in (46). 

The conditions in Proposition 1 provide more flexibility in the design of matrix $\widetilde { \Psi }$ compared to Theorem 2, which becomes a particular case by taking $\widetilde \Psi = \Psi ( \boldsymbol { \sigma } )$ and $\Psi ( \sigma )$ as in (9).

For the noisy case, to present the results in a compact way, we take inspiration from Remark 7, in particular (36), and consider the next triggering rule, which allows combining the techniques of Sections IV-B1 and IV-B2 in a unified manner: $t _ { 0 } = 0$ and

$$t _ {k + 1} = \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R}: t \geqslant t _ {k} + \overline {{\tau}} _ {d} (\sigma_ {1}) \text { and } z (t) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\Psi} z (t) \geqslant \nu \right\} \tag {47}$$

where $\sigma _ { 1 }$ is as in (39), $\overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) ~ \in ~ \{ 0 , \tau _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) \}$ with $\tau _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ in (41), $\nu \geqslant 0$ arbitrary, and $\tilde { \Psi } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ symmetric to be designed. We have the next result.

Proposition 2: Suppose the following holds.

(i) Assumptions 1 and 2 are verified with ∆ given.   
(ii) Let $\Omega \succ 0$ , SDP (24) is feasible and $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ is the resulting controller as in Theorem 3.   
(iii) There exist $\mu , \epsilon , \sigma _ { 2 } > 0$ and $\widetilde { \Psi } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ symmetric such that
