# C. Learning a triggering policy

We write the closed-loop system under the control law (2) as

$$\dot {x} (t) = (A + B K) x (t) + B K e (t) \tag {7}$$

where

$$e (t) := x (t _ {k}) - x (t), \quad t \in [ t _ {k}, t _ {k + 1}), \tag {8}$$

represents the sampling-induced error, that is the mismatch between the last value of the state transmitted to the controller and its current value. As customary in the event-triggered control literature, the idea is to regard e as a disturbance to the nominal dynamics ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = ( A + B K ) x ( t )$ , which is then controlled via the triggering condition so that stability is preserved despite sampling.

We develop a data-based version of the approach proposed in [3] for this purpose; the extension to other triggering conditions is addressed in Section V. We introduce for this purpose the next parameterized matrix and the vector z

$$
\Psi (\sigma) := \left[ \begin{array}{c c} - \sigma^ {2} I & \mathbf {0} \\ \mathbf {0} & I \end{array} \right], \quad z := \left[ \begin{array}{l} x \\ e \end{array} \right], \tag {9}
$$

with $\sigma > 0$ a design parameter to be determined. The sampling times are defined as follows: $t _ { 0 } : = 0$ and

$$
t _ {k + 1} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R}: t > t _ {k} \text {   and   } z (t) ^ {\top} \Psi (\sigma) z (t) = 0 \right\} & \text { if   } x \left(t _ {k}\right) \neq 0, \\ + \infty & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {10}
$$

This logic ensures by design that $z ^ { \top } \Psi ( { \boldsymbol { \sigma } } ) z ~ \leqslant ~ 0$ along the solutions to (7), (8), (10) as long as they exist; we shall prove later on that the sequence of sampling instants does not result in an accumulation point, which guarantees that a solution to (7), (8), (10) exists for all times (and is unique). This logic may provide asynchronous and sporadic control updates. In fact, it owes its popularity thanks to this latter feature besides its conceptual simplicity.

Closed-loop stability depends on σ, which must be chosen sufficiently small to control the norm of error e. How small σ should be is system-dependent in the sense that the matrices A and B determine which values of σ are allowed, see [3, Section IV]. Hereafter, we propose a data-based method to determine σ.
