Consider any controller gain K computed via Theorem 1 and let $V ( x ) = x ^ { \top } S x$ for any $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ with $S = ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ , which is positive definite by Theorem 1. Function V serves as a Lyapunov function for the closed-loop system ignoring sampling. In particular we have, for any $z = ( x , e ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ ,

$$
\langle \nabla V (x), (A + B K) x + B K e \rangle = z ^ {\top} \underbrace {\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - Q & S X _ {1} L \\ (S X _ {1} L) ^ {\top} & \mathbf {0} \end{array} \right]} _ {=: M} z, \tag {11}
$$

where

$$Q := - (S X _ {1} G) ^ {\top} - S X _ {1} G, \tag {12}$$

which is positive definite in view of Theorem 1 and its proof (recall that $X _ { 1 } G = A + B K$ by Lemma 1). Matrix L in (11) is any solution to the system of equations

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} K \\ \mathbf {0} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{l} U _ {0} \\ X _ {0} \end{array} \right] L, \tag {13}
$$

which exists under Assumption 1. Note that (13) implies that $B K = X _ { 1 } L$ . Recall now that the event-triggering rule (10) ensures that $z ^ { \top } \Psi ( { \boldsymbol { \sigma } } ) z ~ \leqslant ~ 0$ along the solutions to (7), (8), (10). Hence, the global exponential stability of the origin of closed-loop system (7), (8) is ensured provided we select σ such that the following implication2 is satisfied for some $\varepsilon > 0$ and any $z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$

$$z ^ {\top} \Psi (\sigma) z \leqslant 0 \quad \Longrightarrow \quad z ^ {\top} M z \leqslant - \varepsilon | z | ^ {2}. \tag {14}$$

This implication ensures that V exponentially decreases along any solution to (7), (8), (10) in view of (11) and the facts that $| x | \leqslant | z |$ for any $z = ( x , e ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ and that V is a positive definite quadratic function. This implies that $x = 0$ is globally exponentially stable for system (7), (8), (10) (again, provided

2Relations involving quadratic inequalities are well-known in optimization and control theory, usually with the term “S-procedure”. Recently, there has been interest for the S-procedure also in the context of data-driven control, see [34] for a recent discussion and new results.

Zeno phenomenon does not occur). The next theorem provides a data-based condition to select σ in (10) to ensure the desired stability property.
