with $\tilde { { \boldsymbol { \theta } } } : = { \boldsymbol { \theta } } - \hat { { \boldsymbol { \theta } } } , \Gamma \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times p }$ p. d.. Then

$$\dot {V} _ {c} (x, \tilde {\theta}) \leq - \nu (x, \hat {\theta}) \tag {8}$$

along the solution of (1) under $u = \mu ( x , { \hat { \theta } } )$ and (6).

It follows that $x = 0$ and $\hat { \theta } = \theta$ are globally stable and furthermore $x  0 \ [ 2 3 ]$ . Note that the decay rate ν of the adaptive control Lyapunov function V is recovered in $V _ { c } .$

The next assumption is central to the current work.

Assumption 1: System (1) admits a smooth adaptive control Lyapunov function $V : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ as per Def. 1, for which there exist $\alpha _ { 1 , 2 } ~ \in ~ { \cal K } _ { \infty }$ and $\alpha _ { \nu } \in \mathcal { K }$ such that $\alpha _ { 1 } ( \left\| x \right\| ) \ \leq$ $V ( x ) \leq \alpha _ { 2 } ( \| x \| )$ ) and $\alpha _ { \nu } ( \left\| x \right\| ) \ \leq \ \nu ( x , \theta )$ for all $( x , \theta ) \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { p } , { \mathrm { i . e . } }$ ,

$$\langle \nabla_ {x} V (x), G (x, u, \theta) \rangle \leq - \nu (x, \theta) \leq - \alpha_ {\nu} (\| x \|). \tag {9}$$

Remark 1: For any compact Θ, one can always choose $\alpha _ { 1 , 2 } ~ \in ~ { \cal K } _ { \infty }$ independent of θ such that for all $\theta ~ \in ~ \Theta$ $\alpha _ { 1 } ( \| x \| ) \leq V ( x , \theta ) \leq \alpha _ { 2 } ( \| x \| )$ for any $x ,$ whence explicit dependence on θ in $V$ is omitted for the ease of exposition.

Since V is independent of $\theta , \tau ( x , \theta ) = \tau ( x )$ in (6).

Remark 2: From a practical viewpoint, requiring knowledge of a (parameter independent) adaptive control Lyapunov function may be appear challenging to satisfy, but luckily a great variety of concrete examples exists. These include, e. g., the adaptive cruise control [2], [45], car traction control [34] and biochemical processes [22, Chap. 3.4.2]. Also, systematic procedures exist to construct adaptive control Lyapunov functions for systems in the strict-feedback form.
