# B. Practical Stability

Now, practical stability is discussed. In particular, bounds of $\varepsilon _ { 1 , w }$ as well as δ are established to ensure decay of a Lyapunov function candidate.

Theorem 1: Consider system (1) in the SH-mode (10). Let Assumptions 1 and 2 hold. Assume that $\theta \in \Theta$ , where $\Theta \subset$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is compact. Then there exists $\bar { \delta } > 0$ and $\bar { \varepsilon } _ { 1 , w } \geq 0$ such that if the sampling time satisfies $0 < \delta \leq \bar { \delta } ,$ then $\{ u _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 } }$ of Algorithm 1 practically semi-globally stabilizes (1) as per Definition 2.

The proof, which can be found in the appendix, is organized as follows: First, some technicalities are reviewed and a Lyapunov function candidate is proposed. Then, conditions are established such that the trajectory remains inside $\boldsymbol { B } _ { R ^ { * } }$ as well as $\boldsymbol { B } _ { r }$ after some (computable) time. Finally, decay of the candidate is established by constraining $\varepsilon _ { 1 , w }$ and δ suitably.

In practice, sometimes it is not required to steer the entire state vector to the target but only certain states $x _ { \{ I \} }$ of cardinality $1 \leq d < n$ while the other system states remain bounded. Such situation arises when a particular subsystem of (1), i. e., a subset of states $x _ { \{ n - d \} }$ , is input-to-state (ISS) stable [42] w. r. t. to the states $x _ { \{ I \} }$ . The system in Section IV-A inherits such property.

Assumption 3: Given any $I \subset \{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ , let Assumption 1 hold for a p. d. $\nu : \mathbb { R } ^ { I } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { p } \to \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ and a $\mathfrak { p } . \mathrm { d } . \alpha _ { \nu } : \mathbb { R } ^ { I } \to \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ , i. e., the decay of V is dependent on $x _ { \{ I \} }$ . Additionally, there exists a partition $V _ { \{ I \} } : \mathbb { R } ^ { I } \to \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ of V and $\hat { J } _ { \{ I \} } : \mathbb { R } ^ { I } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { l } $ $\mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ to there is a recovering weight w as in Assumption 2 for all $x _ { \{ I \} }$ and there exist bounding functions $q _ { 1 } , q _ { 2 }$ such that q $( \Vert { \dot { x } } _ { \{ I \} } \Vert ) \leq { \hat { J } } ( x _ { \{ I \} } , w ) \leq q _ { 2 } ( \Vert x _ { \{ I \} } \Vert )$ .

Under these modifications, the following relation to the preceding theorem can be made:
