# C. Decreasing threshold on the Lyapunov function

We present a last triggering rule, which consists in imposing a given (decreasing) threshold on the Lyapunov function V evaluated along the solutions to (1), (2), as suggested in $\mathrm { e . g . }$ , [23], [24] in model-based settings. Exploiting the fact that the Lyapunov function V can be derived from data as shown in Sections III and IV, we present “robustified” data-based versions of these sampling strategies.

In the noise-free case and in absence of network, we have that $V ( x ) ~ = ~ x ^ { \top } S x$ is a Lyapunov function for ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) \ =$ “ $( A + B K ) x ( t )$ where $S ~ = ~ ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ , Y is a solution to (6) and $K ~ = ~ U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ , see Section III-C. We then have $\langle \nabla V ( x ) , ( A + B K ) x \rangle \leqslant - \rho _ { 1 } V ( x )$ for any $\boldsymbol { x } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , where $\rho _ { 1 } > 0$ is any (sufficiently small) constant such that $- \rho _ { 1 } S \geq ( A + B K ) ^ { \top } S + S ( A + B K ) = ( X _ { 1 } G ) ^ { \top } S + S ( X _ { 1 } G )$ . Note that the condition $- \rho _ { 1 } S \ge ( X _ { 1 } G ) ^ { \top } S + S ( X _ { 1 } G )$ is databased and can thus be exploited to find $\rho _ { 1 }$ using set D in (3). Based on this observation, we introduce the threshold variable $\eta \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geqslant 0 }$ , whose dynamics is

$$\dot {\eta} (t) = - \varsigma \rho_ {1} \eta (t), \quad \eta (0) \geqslant V (x (0)), \tag {61}$$

where $\varsigma \in \mathsf { \Gamma } ( 0 , 1 )$ is arbitrary. Hence η upper-bounds V pxq along the solutions to the closed-loop system $\dot { \boldsymbol { x } } ( t ) = ( \boldsymbol { A } +$ $B K ) x ( t )$ , as $\eta ( 0 ) \geqslant V ( x ( 0 ) )$ and $\dot { \eta } ( t ) \geqslant \dot { V } ( x ( t ) )$ in view of the comparison principle [41, Chapter 3.4]. The triggering rule is then given by: $t _ { 0 } = 0 \ \mathrm { a n d } ^ { 6 }$

$$
t _ {k + 1} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R}: t > t _ {k} \text {   and   } V (x (t)) = \eta (t) \right\} \\ \quad \text { if   } (x (t _ {k}), \eta (t _ {k})) \neq 0, \\ + \infty & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {62}
$$

We have the next result in the noise-free case.

Proposition 5: Suppose Assumption 1 holds. Let Y be any solution to (6), $S ~ = ~ ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 } , ~ K ~ = ~ U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ and let $\rho _ { 1 } ~ > ~ 0$ be such that $( X _ { 1 } G ) ^ { \top } S + S ( X _ { 1 } G ) \ \preceq \ - \rho _ { 1 } S$ . Furthermore, let L be as in $( 1 3 ) , \varsigma \in ( 0 , 1 )$ arbitrary, and $\mu , \sigma > 0$ be such that the following SDP (in the decision variables $\mu$ and $\sigma ^ { 2 } )$ is satisfied
