SDP (6) is feasible and any solution Y to (6) is such that the matrix $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - \bar { 1 } }$ renders $A + B K$ Hurwitz. As a result, the origin of system ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = ( A + B K ) x ( t )$ is globally exponentially stable. l

Proof. We first show that (6) is feasible. Consider any matrix K that makes $A + B K$ Hurwitz, which exists since $( A , B )$ is stabilizable. By Lyapunov theory, there exists a symmetric matrix $S \succ 0$ such that $S ( A + B K ) + ( A + B K ) ^ { \top } S \prec 0 .$ . Furthermore, by Lemma 1 there exists a matrix G that satisfies $\begin{array} { r } { \big [ \begin{array} { l } { K } \\ { I } \end{array} \big ] = \big [ \begin{array} { l } { U _ { 0 } } \\ { X _ { 0 } } \end{array} \big ] G . } \end{array}$ , which implies $A + B K = X _ { 1 } G$ . Hence, $Y : =$ “ $\stackrel { \cdot \mathrm { { G } } } { S } { } ^ { - 1 }$ 0 satisfies both (6a) and (6b) as $X _ { 0 } G = I$ and $X _ { 0 } Y =$ “ $S ^ { - 1 } \succ 0$ . This shows that (6) is feasible.

Concerning the second part of the statement, consider any solution Y to (6) and let $G : = Y S$ , where we set $S : =$ “ $( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ . Note that $X _ { 0 } G = I$ and that $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ can also be written as $K = U _ { 0 } G _ { \cdot }$ , as (5) holds. By combining (6a) and (6b), and because $G = Y S$ and $A + B K = X _ { 1 } G ,$ we conclude that $S ( A + B K ) + ( A + B K ) ^ { \top } S \ < \ 0$ . Thus $A + B K$ is Hurwitz as S is symmetric and $S \succ 0 .$ . The global exponential stability of the origin of ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = ( A + B K ) x ( t )$ then follows, see [32, Theorem 8.2]. 

The decision variable in Theorem 1 is Y (and not G) and ${ \cal { Y } } ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 } ~ = ~ { \cal { G } } .$ . This change of variable is instrumental to arrive at a convex formulation of the design program as shown in the proof of Theorem 1. We also notice from the proof of Theorem 1 that Assumption 1 is not needed for the second part of the result, which implies that there might exist a solution to (6) even though Assumption 1 does not hold. This fact has been pointed[33]. Nevertheless, having $\left[ \begin{array} { l } { U _ { 0 } } \\ { X _ { 0 } } \end{array} \right]$ in the discrete-time case in full row rank gives certain advantages as any stabilizing controller can be parametrized through the data. This is useful when we search for a controller that satisfies extra desirable properties.

Theorem 1 provides a way to design the state feedback controller gain K in absence of network (in the noise-free case). We now move to the next step of the emulation approach that is to take sampling into account and to design the triggering condition.
