with $\Psi ( \sigma )$ and σ as in (9) and (39), respectively. The rule in (42) is a time-regularized version of (10), which prevents arbitrary fast sampling by enforcing global minimum interevent time $\tau _ { d } ( \sigma ) > 0$ given in (41). We next state the main result of this section. Afterwards, we discuss pros and cons of this approach with respect to the one presented in Section IV-B1.

4The result below holds for arbitrary $\sigma > 0 .$ Imposing $\sigma < \omega _ { 1 } / \omega _ { 2 }$ is needed to make sure that (38) guarantees ISS.

Theorem 5: Suppose the following holds.

(i) Assumptions 1 and 2 are verified with ∆ given.   
(ii) Let $\Omega > 0 , \mathrm { { S D P } } \left( 2 4 \right)$ is feasible and $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ is the resulting controller as in Theorem 3.

Let σ and $\tau _ { d } ( \sigma )$ as in (39) and (41), respectively, then system (25), (26), (42) is exponentially ISS. l

Proof. Let x be a solution to (25), (26), (42) with input disturbance $d .$ We first note that x is complete as it cannot explode in finite time and there exists a strictly positive minimum inter-event time $\tau _ { d } ( \sigma ) > 0$ , which excludes Zeno phenomenon. Let $k \in \mathcal N$ . We know from Lemma 5 that $| e ( t ) | \leqslant \sigma ( | x ( t ) | + \| d \| _ { \lceil 0 , t \rceil } )$ for all $t \in [ t _ { k } , t _ { k } + \tau _ { d } ( \sigma ) ] \ n$ $\left[ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } \right] = \left[ t _ { k } , t _ { k } + \tau _ { d } \tilde { ( } \sigma ) \right]$ here in view of (42). Moreover, if $\begin{array} { r l r } { t _ { k + 1 } } & { { } > } & { \tau _ { d } ( \sigma ) } \end{array}$ , this means $| e ( t ) | ~ \leqslant ~ \sigma | x ( t ) |$ | for any $t \in [ t _ { k } + \tau _ { d } ( \sigma ) , t _ { k + 1 } ]$ and thus $| e ( t ) | \leqslant \sigma ( | x ( t ) | + \| d \| _ { [ 0 , t ] } )$ . Therefore, (38) holds for $t \in [ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } ] .$ . We derive that (38) holds (with σ in (39)) along x. Since x and d have been chosen arbitrarily, (37) and (38) hold along solutions and $V ( x )$ is not affected by jumps at the triggering instants, we derive that system (25), (26), (42) is exponentially ISS. 
