Theorem 2: Suppose Assumption 1 holds and consider system (7), (8), (10) with $K = U _ { 0 } Y ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 } , Y$ being any solution to (6). Let $\mu , \sigma > 0$ be such that the next SDP (in the decision variables $\mu$ and $\sigma ^ { 2 } )$ is satisfied

$$\mu M - \Psi (\sigma) \prec 0, \tag {15}$$

with $S ~ = ~ ( X _ { 0 } Y ) ^ { - 1 }$ and L as in (13). Then the following holds.

(a) There exists a global minimum inter-event time, in particular, for any solution x to the system, the sequence of transmission times $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathcal { N } }$ satisfies ${ t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k } \geqslant \tau ( \sigma ) }$ for every $k \in \mathcal { N } = \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ where $\begin{array} { r } { \tau ( \sigma ) : = \frac { 1 } { \alpha } \frac { \sigma } { 1 + \sigma } } \end{array}$ with $\alpha : = \operatorname* { m a x } \{ \| X _ { 1 } G \| , \| X _ { 1 } L \| \}$ .

(b) The origin of the system is globally exponentially stable. l

Proof. We first show the feasibility of (15). Let $\sigma : =$ “ $\surd \mu / c$ with $c > 0$ any sufficiently large constant such that $- Q + I / c < 0$ where $Q$ comes from (12); clearly, this c exists because $Q \ \succ \ 0 .$ . For such a choice of $\sigma$ , we have $- \mu Q + \sigma ^ { 2 } I = \mu ( - Q + I / c ) < 0$ for every $\mu > 0 .$ . Therefore, for this choice of σ, (15) is equivalent by a Schur complement to the two conditions

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mu (- Q + I / c) <   0 \text { and } \\ - I + \mu (S X _ {1} L) ^ {\top} (Q - I / c) ^ {- 1} (S X _ {1} L) <   0 \\ \end{array}
$$

which are jointly satisfied for $\mu$ sufficiently small.

We now prove item (a) of Theorem 2. We follow the same steps as [3, Section III] adapted to the data-based context of this work. Let x be a solution to (7), (8), (10). The claim is trivial when $x ( 0 ) = 0$ . When $x ( 0 ) \neq 0 , x ( t ) \neq 0$ for any t in the domain of the solution, see [35, Proposition 4]. Moreover, we also have from [35, Proposition 1] that the number of jumps is infinite, i.e., $\mathcal { N } = \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ . Let $k \in  { \mathbb { N } } _ { 0 }$ , we have for any $t \in [ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } )$ ,

$$\frac {d}{d t} \frac {| e (t) |}{| x (t) |} = \frac {e (t) ^ {\top} \dot {e} (t)}{| e (t) | | x (t) |} - \frac {x (t) ^ {\top} \dot {x} (t) | e (t) |}{| x (t) | ^ {3}} \tag {17a}\leqslant \left(1 + \frac {| e (t) |}{| x (t) |}\right) \frac {| \dot {x} (t) |}{| x (t) |} \tag {17b}\leqslant \alpha \left(1 + \frac {| e (t) |}{| x (t) |}\right) ^ {2} \tag {17c}$$
