# E. Algorithm

To ensure closed loop state convergence, these training rules should satisfy stability conditions. Satisfaction of these conditions is checked at each sampling instance. The aim of the algorithm is to ensure practical stability by associating the critic to a given adaptive control Lyapunov function and to establish a variation of $V _ { c }$ of Lemma 1 as effective Lyapunov function for the closed loop.

Instead of posing constraints on the critic weights $w _ { k }$ and the approximate optimal controller $u _ { k }$ , they have to fulfill conditions that may be checked post-computation at each sampling time kδ. If violated, the backup controller $\mu ( x _ { k } , \hat { \theta } _ { k } )$ is called and $w _ { k } = w ^ { \# }$ of Assumption 2 is set.

In particular, decay along the system is desired. Since only an estimate of θ is available, it should hold that

$$\left\langle \frac {\partial \hat {J}}{\partial x} (x _ {k}, w _ {k}), \delta \mathcal {F} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, \hat {\theta} _ {k}) \right\rangle \leq - \frac {\delta}{2} \nu (x _ {k}, \hat {\theta} _ {k}) + \varepsilon_ {1} \tag {20}$$

for some $\varepsilon _ { 1 } \geq 0 ,$ , along the estimated dynamics under ${ \hat { \theta } } .$

Remark 6: Condition (20) may be embedded directly in the optimization and a backup may be called should no admissible solution be found by the optimizer.

At $k = 0 , \ \hat { \theta } _ { 0 }$ is an initial parameter guess. The parameter tuning (6) is a construct from within the stability proof of Lem. 1 (see also [23]) which using the approximant Jˆ transfers to

$$\hat {\theta} _ {k + 1} = \hat {\theta} _ {k} + \delta \Gamma \tau (x _ {k}, w _ {k}), \tag {21a}\tau (x, w) := \left(\frac {\partial^ {\top} \hat {J}}{\partial x} (x, w) F (x)\right) ^ {\top}, \tag {21b}$$

starting at $\hat { \theta } _ { 0 }$

The algorithm is summarized in Algorithm 1, involving several technicalities discussed in the following Section III.
