# II. FRAMEWORK

Consider the continuous-time linear system

$$\dot {x} (t) = A x (t) + B u (t) + d (t), \tag {1}$$

where $\ b { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the state and $u ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the control input at time $t ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } _ { \geqslant 0 }$ with $n , m \in \mathbb { N } .$ . Input disturbance $d \ \in \ \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } \ \to \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is unknown, Lebesgue measurable and bounded in the sense that $\| d \| _ { \infty } < + \infty$ . Matrices A and B are real, constant, unknown and assumed to be such that $( A , B )$ is stabilizable. We will not need to directly check stabilizability of $( A , B )$ in the sense that this property is necessary for the feasibility of the design data-based programs that we will consider.

We investigate the scenario where plant (1) is connected to its controller via a network. In particular, state measurements are sent from the sensors to the controller via the digital channel, and the controller is directly connected to the actuators; although the results presented later in Section V also allow considering the case where the network is instead between the controller and the actuators. Our objective is to design a state-feedback event-triggered controller to stabilize, in a sense made precise in the sequel, system (1). In particular, we aim at designing a linear state-feedback law with gain $K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ and a triggering policy that defines the sequence of transmission (or sampling) instants $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathcal { N } }$ with ${ \mathcal { N } } \subseteq \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ for each solution to the system. Without loss of generality, we consider that a transmission occurs at t “ 0 so that $t _ { 0 } = 0$ . We implement the controller using zero-order-hold devices, which leads to the control input

$$u (t) = K x \left(t _ {k}\right), \quad t \in \left[ t _ {k}, t _ {k + 1}\right). \tag {2}$$

The solutions to (1) in closed-loop with (2) are understood in the Caratheodory sense ´ 1, i.e., the solution flows on $[ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } ]$ and experiences a jump at $t _ { k + 1 }$ for $k , k + 1 \in \mathcal N$ . We will establish later in the paper that, for any $k \in \mathcal { N } , t _ { k + 1 } - t _ { k }$ is lower bounded by a strictly positive constant independent of k and of the initial condition so that the $t _ { k } \mathrm { ' s }$ do not accumulate (i.e., Zeno phenomenon does not occur). Also, by a solution, we always mean a maximal solution, i.e., one that cannot be extended.
