# B. Dynamic event-triggered control

The triggering rules considered so far are static, in the sense that they rely on algebraic conditions involving x and e (and possibly the elapsed time since the last transmission). We can also add auxiliary variables to define the triggering rules as advocated in e.g., [5], [17], in order to potentially further reduce the number of transmissions while preserving stability. In this section, we show how the results of Section V-A can be extended to dynamic triggering rules like in [17], [21] where model-based results are presented.

Consistently with the structure of the paper so far, we first focus on the noise-free case, before taking into account d in (1) again. We introduce for this purpose variable $\eta \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geqslant 0 }$ , whose dynamics is, for any $t \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geqslant 0 }$ ,

$$\dot {\eta} (t) = - \lambda \eta (t) - z (t) ^ {\top} \tilde {\Psi} z (t), \quad \eta (0) \geqslant 0, \tag {51}$$

where $\lambda ~ > ~ 0$ is arbitrary and $\tilde { \Psi } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ is symmetric and has to be designed. The purpose of variable η is to filter the quadratic term considered in (45) in Section V-A (in the noise-free case). Variable η does not experience jumps at transmission instants. Note that the state vector is now $( x , \eta )$ and we will establish that the origin is globally asymptotically stable for the augmented system, as formalized in Proposition 3 below and discussed afterwards.

The triggering rule is defined $\mathrm { a s } ^ { 5 } \colon t _ { 0 } = 0$ and

$$
t _ {k + 1} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R}: t > t _ {k} \text {   and   } \eta (t) - \theta z (t) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\Psi} z (t) \leqslant 0 \right\} & \text { if   } (x (t _ {k}), \eta (t _ {k})) \neq 0, \\ + \infty & \text { otherwise }, \end{array} \right. \tag {52}
$$

where $\theta \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geqslant 0 }$ is an additional arbitrary tuning parameter. We have the next result.

Proposition 3: Suppose the conditions of Proposition 1 are satisfied. Then system (7), (8), (51), (52):
