Various solutions to this problem are available in the literature when A and B are known see, e.g., [3]–[5], [17], [19], [19]–[21], [23], [25]. Since A and B in (1) are unknown, we cannot apply these results and the challenge is thus to design the event-triggered controller directly based on some available data. In particular, we assume that we are given a set of data collected off-line

$$\mathbb {D} := \left\{u (t), x (t), \dot {x} (t): t \in \left\{0, T _ {s}, \dots , (T - 1) T _ {s} \right\} \right\}, \tag {3}$$

where $T _ { s } ~ > ~ 0$ is a sampling time used for collecting the data and $T > 0$ is the number of samples. Set D consists of input, state and state derivative data collected from the system with an experiment. This means we have access to a set of input-state samples verifying ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A x ( t ) + B u ( t ) + d ( t )$ for $t \in \{ 0 , T _ { s } , \ldots , ( T - 1 ) T _ { s } \}$ . We consider data collected periodically only to ease the exposition: this is not required for the forthcoming results to hold, in other words aperiodic sampled data can very well be considered.

The problem of interest is to determine, using $\mathbb { D } ,$ a controller gain $K$ in (2) and a triggering condition policy that defines the transmission instants $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathcal { N } }$ (not necessarily periodic) for each solution, such that the induced closed-loop system has suitable stability properties, as formalized in the sequel. We proceed by emulation for this purpose, in the sense that we will first design the stabilizing controller gain K in the absence of sampling. Afterwards, sampled communications due to the network are taken into account and we will derive triggering conditions to (approximately) preserve stability. We first focus on the ideal case of noise-free data to introduce the required background and techniques in Section III. These results are then extended to the case where data are noisy in Section IV. We will explain how the followed approach can be used to develop various other triggering conditions in Section V.

Remark 1 (Data acquisition phase): The question of the selection $T _ { s }$ and T is important for the forthcoming results and we will comment on this point later in the paper. Here, we remark that the sampling time $T _ { s }$ used for collecting the data does not need to coincide with those generated by the triggering policy to be designed. l
