According to Proposition 3, given a matrix $\widetilde { \Psi } _ { \pmb { \downarrow } }$ , which satisfies (46), we can then design a dynamic version of the triggering condition in Section V-A in the noise-free case. The convergence of the x-component of the solutions is still exponential as the time goes to infinity in view of item (b) of Proposition 3.

In the noisy case, the dynamics of variable η needs to be modified as, similarly to [21],

$$\dot {\eta} (t) \in - \lambda \eta (t) - \psi (t - t _ {k}) \left(z (t) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\Psi} z (t) - \nu\right), \tag {54}$$

with $\lambda > 0$ arbitrary and $\widetilde { \Psi }$ symmetric to be designed. Given $\overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ as in Section $\mathrm { V } { \cdot } \mathrm { A } .$ , namely $\overline { { { \tau } } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) \in \{ 0 , \tau _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) \}$ , $\tau _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ as in in (41) and $\sigma _ { 1 }$ as in (39), ψ is defined as follows. When $\overline { { { \tau } } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) = \tau _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) , \psi ( s ) = 0$ for $s ~ \in ~ \lceil 0 , \overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) \rceil$ , $\psi ( s ) = 1$ for $s > \overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ and $\psi ( s ) = [ 0 , 1 ]$ for $s = \overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ . When $\overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) = 0 , \psi ( s ) = 1$ for any $s \geqslant 0$ In (54), the term $z ( t ) ^ { \top } \tilde { \Psi } z ( t ) - \nu$ , which is related to (47), is filtered after $\overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ units of time have elapsed. We note that (54) is a differential inclusion when $\overline { { { \tau } } } _ { d } ( \sigma ) = \tau _ { d } ( \sigma )$ because ψ is multi-valued at $\tau _ { d } ( \sigma )$ , and solutions to (54) are understood in the Krasovskii sense on $[ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } ]$ with $k \in \mathcal N$ in this case, see [40, Chapter 4.5]. The triggering rule becomes: $t _ { 0 } = 0$ and

$$
\begin{array}{r l} t _ {k + 1} = \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R}: t \geqslant t _ {k} + \overline {{\tau}} _ {d} (\sigma_ {1}) \right. \\ \left. \text { and } \eta (t) - \theta (z (t) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\Psi} z (t) - \nu) \leqslant 0 \right\}, \end{array} \tag {55}
$$

with arbitrary $\theta \geqslant 0$ and, again, $\sigma _ { 1 }$ as in (39). We have the next result.

Proposition 4: Suppose the conditions of Proposition 2 are satisfied. I $\mathrm { ~ f ~ } \overline { { \tau } } _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } ) = \tau _ { d } ( \sigma _ { 1 } )$ or $\nu > 0$ , system (25), (26), (54), (55):
