There is therefore a strong need for general data-based event-triggered control techniques that are applicable to continuous-time systems, as many real-life processes have a continuous-time nature, and that are robust to disturbances affecting both the data acquisition phase and the closed-loop operations. In this context, we present a data-based approach to design state-feedback event-triggered controllers for unknown stabilizable continuous-time linear systems affected by disturbances. Like in [15], noisy data is explicitly accounted both off-line, when acquiring data, and on-line, when implementing the designed controller. Noisy data in the acquisition phase prevent exact system identification, and this calls for control design routines that are robust to uncertainty. Noise during the closed-loop operations, on the other hand, is even more problematic because it may lead to Zeno behavior even with exact modelling [18], meaning that an infinite number of transmissions occur in finite time. To address these challenges, we proceed by emulation and, as a first step, we design a statefeedback controller that stabilizes the closed-loop system in absence of sampling, in the sense that an input-to-state stability (ISS) property holds. We then take into account sampling induced by the network and we design data-driven triggering techniques based on the relative threshold technique of [3] that preserves (approximately) the original stability property of the closed-loop system. In particular, we first develop datadriven mixed absolute/relative threshold event-based policies [18]. In this case, the closed-loop system is guaranteed to satisfy a practical ISS property, where the adjustable parameter is the absolute threshold. Moreover, we prove the existence of a strictly positive uniform minimum inter-event times between any two transmissions and we provide a data-based estimate of it.
