# A. Learning a feedback controller

The first step is to derive an analogue of Lemma 1. Suppose we perform an experiment on the system, and we collect state and input samples3 that satisfy ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A x ( t ) + B u ( t ) + d ( t )$ , $t \in \{ 0 , T _ { s } , \ldots , ( T - 1 ) T _ { s } \}$ . The samples are then grouped into the data matrices $U _ { 0 } , X _ { 0 } , X _ { 1 }$ as in (4). Let

$$
D _ {0} := \left[ \begin{array}{l l l l} d (0) & d (T _ {s}) & \dots & d ((T - 1) T _ {s}) \end{array} \right] \tag {21}
$$

be the unknown data matrix made of the off-line samples of d. We have the next result.

Lemma 2: Let Assumption 1 hold and consider any matrix $K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ . Then $A + B K = ( X _ { 1 } - D _ { 0 } ) G$ where $G \in \mathbb { R } ^ { T \times n }$ is any solution to the system of equations (5).

Proof. By Assumption 1, there exists a $T \times n$ matrix G such that (5) holds. Hence $A + B K = \left[ B \ A \right] \left[ { \begin{array} { l } { K } \\ { I } \end{array} } \right] = \left[ B \ A \right] \left[ { \begin{array} { l } { U _ { 0 } } \\ { X _ { \cap } } \end{array} } \right] G$ , where the second identity follows from (5). The result follows because the elements of $U _ { 0 } , X _ { 0 } , X _ { 1 }$ and $D _ { 0 }$ satisfy the relation ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A x ( t ) + B u ( t ) + d ( t ) , t \in \{ 0 , T _ { s } , \ldots , ( T - 1 ) T _ { s } \}$ which, in compact form, gives $X _ { 1 } = A X _ { 0 } + B U _ { 0 } + D _ { 0 }$ . 

By Lemma 2, the closed-loop dynamics can be written as ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = ( A + B K ) x ( t ) = ( X _ { 1 } - D _ { 0 } ) G _ { 1 } x ( t )$ , which depends on the unknown matrix $D _ { 0 } .$ As a result, (6) no longer provides stability guarantees. In fact, the constraint (6a) ensures that $X _ { 1 } G _ { 1 }$ is Hurwitz. However, the matrix of interest is now $\Phi : = ( X _ { 1 } - D _ { 0 } ) G _ { 1 }$ in view of Lemma 2, and $X _ { 1 } G _ { 1 }$ Hurwitz does not imply that Φ is Hurwitz. To be able to prove an ISS property for system (1) in closed-loop with $\ u \ = \ K \boldsymbol { x }$ (ignoring sampling), we need to modify (6a) accounting for the uncertainty induced by $D _ { 0 }$ . An effective way to achieve this is to ensure that $( X _ { 1 } - D ) G _ { 1 }$ satisfies a Lyapunov equation with a common (symmetric) Lyapunov matrix $Y \succ 0 f o r$ all the matrices D in a given set D to which $D _ { 0 }$ is deemed to belong as formalized next; this approach can in fact be viewed as a robust control approach. We thus introduce the set

$$\mathcal {D} := \{D \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n \times T}: D D ^ {\top} \preceq \Delta \Delta^ {\top} \}, \tag {22}$$
