control, see e.g., [6]–[10] for earlier contributions and one recent survey on the topic. This paradigm is also appealing as it may ease the controller design step. Few techniques are currently available in the literature to design data-driven event-based controllers see, e.g., [11]–[14], which consider discrete-time systems, and the recent work in [15] dedicated to continuous-time systems. In [11]–[13], no disturbances act on the data collected off-line, which simplifies the learning, in particular, for linear time-invariant systems, an exact databased representation can be obtained in this case under mild conditions [16]. This is not the case of [14] where the controller and the triggering policy are designed once and for all with one single batch of noisy data collected from the system. The idea is that, under certain conditions, this data batch returns a (non-parametric) system model. In turn, this makes it possible to cast control and triggering rule design as data-dependent problems, in particular via data-based linear matrix inequalities (LMI). The authors of [14] then derive a dynamic event-triggered control policy inspired by the modelbased technique in [17]. However, while off-line data are noisy, disturbances are ignored when implementing the controller. In [15], on the other hand, disturbances are considered both for learning and during closed-loop operation and a specific dynamic triggering strategy is presented to ensure an $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 ^ { - } }$ stability property.
