# I. INTRODUCTION

The optimal control of hybrid systems has been widely studied over the past few decades. In practice, many dynamical systems have hybrid characteristics, such as fermentation processes [1], aerospace systems [2], robots [3], [4], as well as social sciences [5] and natural systems [6]. Generally, hybrid control systems are dynamical systems that exhibit interactions between continuous and discrete dynamics [7]. Switched systems are a particular class of hybrid dynamical systems composed of a family of continuous or discrete time subsystems and a law governing the transition between these subsystems. For example, the following is a switched system:

$$\dot {x} = A _ {\alpha} x + B _ {\alpha} u,y = C _ {\alpha} x. \tag {1}$$

where $\boldsymbol { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ is the state, $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the control input, $y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the output, and $\alpha \in \{ 1 , 2 , . . . , n \}$ is the switching mode or index. The studies of hybrid switched systems have focused on their stability analysis [8], the optimal control of their switching modes [9], [10], multi-mode switching [11], as well as on the special class of piece-wise affine systems [12] and algorithms for solving such systems [13]– [15], etc.

Switched systems may be classified into state-dependent and time-dependent switched systems. In a state-dependent switched system, the continuous state space is partitioned into a finite number of regions by several switching interfaces. In each region, the system has continuous dynamics. When the system trajectory hits a switching interface, the system dynamic “switches” and the system state either jumps (i.e., impulse effects) or continues to evolve in a continuous fashion (i.e., no state jumps) at the switching point even though the trajectory may no longer be differentiable at that

point. In this paper, we will focus on switched systems without state jumps. The scenario when a state-dependent switched system experiences multiple switches (i.e., Zeno behavior) at the interface is out of the scope of this paper.
