Tuning of OC system is in the tradition of what has become known as neighboring extremal optimal control (NEOC). Reference [2] (the first edition of which originally appeared in 1975) treats the following problem. Suppose an open-loop optimal control is known for a nonlinear system with prescribed initial condition, and suppose the initial condition is then varied by a small amount; how can one obtain (easily) a corresponding small variation to the control to maintain optimality? The answer rests on what is known as the theory of the second variation, and boils down to solving a time-varying linear-quadratic optimal control problem with parameters derived from the original problem and its optimum trajectory. From this consideration of perturbations of the initial condition, attention moved to perturbations of other aspects of optimal control problems, including parameters in the loss function. Thus reference [3] considers a nonlinear optimal control problem in which there are one or more scalar parameters which potentially can vary. With a solution available for one set of parameter values, an algorithm is given whereby the gradient of the optimal index with respect to those parameters is computed. It is a variant on that provided in [2] for initial condition perturbation, on a time-varying linear-quadratic foundation. In a further example, [4] indicates how NEOC can work in the presence of control constraints.

Building on the early focus on small variations in initial conditions or parameters, the paper [5] considers a nonlinear optimal control problem where a parameter undergoes a significant change from the value used to compute the optimal control. It is shown how a modified optimal control can be computed using multiple applications of the neighboring extremal method, each corresponding to a distinct point on a homotopic path, and also importantly demonstrates the possibility that a change of extremal due to an infinitesimal change in the parameter can be discontinuous, though the performance index value may be continuous across the change.
