ensures the validity of the earlier assumption that $\| z \| \leq r _ { z }$ . Using the expression of σ and b in the last inequality in (49) yields

$$r _ {\theta} \leq \frac {0 . 5 \underline {{\lambda}} r _ {z}}{\overline {{\lambda}} ^ {2} \kappa_ {0} + \overline {{\lambda}} \underline {{\lambda}} \kappa_ {1} r _ {z} + \overline {{\lambda}} ^ {2} \kappa_ {2} r _ {z} ^ {2}} \tag {50}$$

Notice that restriction (50) automatically satisfies (47) because the RHS of the former inequality is always smaller than that of the latter one. In other words, (50) ensures $\sigma > 0$ . It can be easily verified that

$$r _ {z} = \frac {\kappa_ {0}}{\kappa_ {2}}$$

maximize the RHS of (50) and therefore

$$r _ {\theta} \leq \alpha \| \tilde {\boldsymbol {\theta}} (0) \| \leq \frac {1}{2 \overline {{\lambda}} \left(\kappa_ {1} + \gamma (\kappa_ {0} + \kappa_ {2})\right)} \tag {51}$$

is the largest bound on the parameter estimation error that still guarantees ultimate boundedness of z(t). In this case, it is apparent from the response of the force system (48), that $\| z ( t ) \|$ converges to zero if the input signal $\lVert \tilde { { \boldsymbol { \theta } } } ( t ) \rVert$ does so. In other words, restrictions (40), (51) and $\| z ( 0 ) \| \le \kappa _ { 0 } / ( \kappa _ { 2 } \sqrt { \gamma } )$ ensure that the control error $z ( t )$ is ultimate bounded. Furthermore, if $\lVert \tilde { { \boldsymbol { \theta } } } \rVert \to 0$ as $t \to \infty$ then $\| z ( t ) \|  0$ as $t \to \infty$ .

The above development can be summarized in the following. Assume the following assumptions

i. The direction of the angular velocity vector does not remain constant over time, i.e., convergence of the estimators according to Propositions 1 and 2.   
ii. The velocity and acceleration command signals are bounded   
iii. The initial kinematic parameter error is sufficiently small, i.e., condition (51) is satisfied Then, the convergence and stability of the estimation and control process are guaranteed.
