Well-established numerical methods for classical $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controller design are based on the repeated solution of linear matrix inequalities (LMIs) or algebraic Riccati equations (AREs); see, e. g., the monographs Francis (1987); Zhou et al. (1996); Skogestad and Postlethwaite (2005). The AREs are often solved using structured generalized eigenvalue problems (Benner et al., 2002, 2011). LMI- or ARE-based control is widely used for plants with small state-dimension (also called plant order ). The main drawback of these methods is that the obtained controllers have the same order as the plant (and are thus often called full-order controllers). This is undesired for plants with higher order, since the implementation of high controllers is often impractical. For some system classes, low-rank solvers for AREs have enabled the computation of low-order controllers (Benner et al., 2022). Otherwise, a subsequent controller order reduction is necessary (Mustafa and Glover, 1991; Anderson and Liu, 1989). Note that full-order ARE-based $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control for pH systems is currently under investigation; see Breiten and Karsai (2022) for a recent preprint.

In the early 2000s, fixed-order $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controller synthesis methods have been established, in which the set of controllers of a fixed and typically low order is parameterized and then the controller parameters are optimized using gradient-based numerical optimization. There exist two implementations of this approach, HIFOO1 (Burke et al., 2006) and hinfstruct2 (Apkarian and Noll, 2006). Fixed-order $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis leads to constraint nonsmooth and nonconvex optimization problems such that only locally optimal controllers can be computed. In contrast to that, full-order controllers are typically globally optimal3. However, both packages were applied successfully in industrial applications, see, e. g., Wang and Chen (2009); Gabarrou et al. (2010); Robu et al. (2010); Ravanbod and Noll (2012). In each iteration of the optimization, the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm of the closed-loop system must be evaluated and its stability must be checked. For systems with high state-space dimension, this can lead to prohibitively high computational costs.
