$$L _ {\mu , b, \varepsilon} (\boldsymbol {\theta}, \boldsymbol {u}) = \mathbb {E} _ {\boldsymbol {x} \sim \mu} \left[ \max \left(0, \frac {b \cdot \mathcal {L} V (\boldsymbol {x})}{V (\boldsymbol {x})} - \frac {(\nabla V (\boldsymbol {x}) ^ {\top} g _ {\boldsymbol {u}} (\boldsymbol {x})) ^ {2}}{V (\boldsymbol {x}) ^ {2}}\right) \right],$$

where the state variable x obeys the distribution $\mu .$ In practice, we consider the following empirical loss function:

$$L _ {N, b, \varepsilon} (\boldsymbol {\theta}, \boldsymbol {u}) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \max \left(0, \frac {b \cdot \mathcal {L} V (\boldsymbol {x} _ {i})}{V (\boldsymbol {x} _ {i})} - \frac {(\nabla V (\boldsymbol {x} _ {i}) ^ {\top} g _ {\boldsymbol {u}} (\boldsymbol {x} _ {i})) ^ {2}}{V (\boldsymbol {x} _ {i}) ^ {2}}\right), \tag {12}$$

where $\{ { \pmb x } _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N }$ are sampled from the distribution $\mu = \mu ( \Omega )$ and Ω is some closed domain in $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$

For convenience, we summarize the developed framework in Algorithm ??. Here, b is a hyperparameter that can be adjusted as required by solving a specific problem.

Remark 3.3 In Section 5, we show numerically that the conditions reduced in (11) are sufficiently effective for designing the ES loss. Actually, it is not necessary to design the loss function using the conditions in (10).

Now, for controlling any nonlinear ODEs or SDEs, we design the ES according to Algorithm ??. As such, using the ES framework can not only stabilize those unstable equilibriums (constant states) of the given systems, but also can stabilize those unstable oscillators, e.g., the limit cycle. This is because the solution corresponding to the oscillator can be regarded as a zero solution of the controlled system after appropriate transformations are implemented.

Another point needs attention. During the construction of V in $( 6 ) , \varepsilon \| \pmb { x } \| ^ { 2 }$ , the $L ^ { 2 }$ -regularization, is used to guarantee the positive definiteness of V . However, often in the application of the Lyapunov stability theory, the form of $\| \pmb { x } \| ^ { 2 }$ is not always a suitable candidate for the Lyapunov function. It may restrict the generalizability of using our framework, so it needs necessary adjustments. The following example illustrates this point.

Example 3.4 Consider a 2-D SDE as follows:
