An approach combining optimal control solutions with CBFs was recently presented in [22]. In this combined approach (termed OCBF), the solution of an unconstrained optimal control problem is first derived and used as a reference control. Then, the resulting control reference trajectory is optimally tracked subject to a set of CBF constraints which ensure the satisfaction of all constraints of the original optimal control problem. Finally, this optimal tracking problem is efficiently solved by discretizing time and solving a simple Quadratic Problem (QP) at each discrete time step over which the control input is held constant [20]. The use of CBFs in this approach exploits their forward invariance property to guarantee that all constraints they enforce are satisfied at all times if they are initially satisfied. In addition, CBFs are designed to impose linear constraints on the control which is what enables the efficient solution of the tracking problem through a sequence of QPs. This approach can also be shown to provide additional flexibility in terms of using nonlinear vehicle dynamics (as long as they are affine in the control), complex objective functions, and tolerate process and measurement noise [22].

However, in solving a sequence of QPs the control update interval in the time discretization process must be sufficiently small in order to always guarantee that every QP is feasible. In practice, such feasibility can be often seen to be violated due to the fact that it is extremely difficult to pick a proper discretization time which can be guaranteed to always work. In this paper, an eventtriggered and a self-triggered approach are considered as two solutions to remedy this issue. We note that the idea of synthesizing event-triggered controllers and BFs or Lyapunov functions has been used in [23] with the goal of improving stability, while a unified event-driven scheme is proposed in [24] with an Input-to-State barrier function to impose safety under an input disturbance.
