# I. INTRODUCTION

Nonlinear dynamical systems are considered as an interesting topic of investigation as all real systems are always nonlinear in nature and approximating it linearly can impose severe restrictions on their working range or may give unfeasible result [1].
Also, nonlinear behavior is sometimes introduced in feedback control as they can provide for even better performance than the linear ones [2].
The control laws governing dynamical system need to have nonlinear and time varying behavior with various uncertainties, disturbances and parasitic dynamics, the influence of which has to be carefully taken into account when considering the performance of the system.
The principle objective of control law is to generate a control or regulation system which is robust to external disturbances and model uncertainty.
The control system has seen development ranging from the ubiquitous PID controller through to high performance controllers.
PID controllers are one of the most popular and simple controller used by the engineers mainly in process industries, automatic control etc.
Adding to the value of PID’s are optimal and robust controllers [10-16].
These control algorithms are independent of the model, linear in nature and their parameter has to be adjusted to obtain an acceptable response characteristic [3].
Recently, there has been a lot of activity in the design of the so-called intelligent control techniques such as fuzzy logic and neural network [5-9], which rely on learning the input-output behavior of the plant to be controlled.
Superseding them are the mature mathematically model based controllers in the area of nonlinear control which yield high performance, near world tests of its classes in the aerospace industry.
Inverted pendulum is treated as one of the classical problem of control engineering as it has similarity to many complex control situations like helicopter control, humanoid robots stability, space shuttle launching control and robots [18-19].
Instead of directly applying the intelligent techniques, their role has been reversed to processes which are ill defined, nonlinear, complex, time varying and stochastic [17].
Among the existing methodologies, switching control systems are quite prominent as they are quite simple to implement and provide an optimal solution to some control problem.
It has its roots lies in relay and bang-bang control.
