and the corresponding $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control problem is described in the collection of pH benchmark systems.8 The state-space dimension of the model can be scaled by changing the number of masses that are included in the MSD chain. The runtimes and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performances for plant orders from 10 to 2000 and controller orders 1, 5, and 10 are reported in Table 1. It can be observed, that while the runtimes increase significantly for HIFOO and hinfstruct as the plant dimension n is increased (hinfstruct takes almost 50 hours to compute a controller for the plant with state dimension 2000), the runtime of SOBSYN is less affected from an increase of n. However, we can observe that the controller dimension affects the runtime, which is well-aligned with our previous findings (Schwerdtner and Voigt, 2021, 2020). In general, the runtime of SOBSYN stays well under an hour for all plant and controller orders. The overall best $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance is provided by hinfstruct accross the different plant and controller orders. HIFOO often leads to a slightly worse performance than hinfstruct. In constrast to the previous experiment, SOBSYN has the worst $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance for low plant orders (up to 50) but for medium to large plant orders, SOBSYN achieves an $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance, that ranks between hinfstruct and HIFOO. When comparing the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance of SOBSYN to the other two methods, it is important to note that the other they only result in one passive controller in this second experiment (for HIFOO at $n = 1 0 0 0$ and $k = 5 )$ . We can again expect a worse performance after a passivation step is applied as demonstrated in the previous experiment. However, this also emphasizes the fact that for certain plants, general controllers can lead to a better $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance than controllers that are restricted to be passive.
