Note that $p _ { i } ^ { * }$ is dependent on $\varphi _ { i - 1 }$ and $\varphi _ { i }$ , and it is ultimately dependent on $\varphi _ { 1 }$ due to $\varphi _ { i } = \xi ( \varphi _ { i - 1 } ) = \xi ^ { i - 1 } ( \varphi _ { 1 } )$ .
As a result, Problem (5) can be equivalently converted into min $\mathfrak { l } _ { \varphi _ { 1 } \in [ 0 , 2 \pi ] } J ( \varphi _ { 1 } , \mathbf { p } ^ { * } ( \varphi _ { 1 } ) )$ .
Define K∗ = arg in $\mathbf { f } _ { k \in Z ^ { + } } \{ k >$ $0 | 2 \pi / k \le \varepsilon _ { p } \}$ , then the interval [0, 2π] can be evenly divided into $K ^ { * }$ sub-intervals, i.e.
$[ 0 , 2 \pi ] = \bigcup _ { k = 1 } ^ { K ^ { * } } [ 2 \pi ( k -$ $1 ) / K ^ { * } , 2 \pi k / K ^ { * } ]$ , as shown in Fig.
2.
The index set $\begin{array} { r } { \Lambda _ { k } = \left\{ l _ { k } \in Z ^ { + } | l _ { k } = \arg \operatorname* { i n f } _ { i \in I _ { N } } | \varphi _ { i } - ( k - 1 ) 2 \pi / K ^ { * } | \right\} } \end{array}$ is introduced to identify $\varphi _ { i }$ that is closest to $2 \pi ( k - 1 ) / K ^ { * }$ .
In what follows, a distributed search-and-monitoring scheme is developed in Algorithm 1, which enables multi-agent systems attaining optimal solutions to Problem (5) with any specified accuracy.
First of all, some key parameters are initialized before activating the algorithm.
Then the i-th agent determines if it is closet to the phase angle $2 \pi ( k - 1 ) / K ^ { * }$ .
If this is true, the partition bar of the i-th agent shifts to $2 \pi ( k - 1 ) / K ^ { * }$ and keeps unchanged.
Meanwhile, the position of the i-th agent $p _ { i }$ is updated with (4) and (7).
If $\varphi _ { i }$ is not closet to $2 \pi ( k - 1 ) / K ^ { * }$ , it is updated with (2) and $p _ { i }$ is still updated with (4) and (7).
The above process lasts for a time period of $T _ { \varepsilon }$ .
Then the i-th agent saves the results on $\varphi _ { i } ^ { k } , p _ { i } ^ { k } , J _ { E _ { i } } ^ { k }$ in the set $C _ { i } ^ { k }$ , while creating a new set $\Omega _ { i } ^ { k } = \{ J _ { E _ { i } } ^ { k } \}$ .
After that, the i-th agent communicates with $( i - 1 )$ -th agent to obtain $\Omega _ { i - 1 } ^ { k }$ and checks whether $| \Omega _ { i } ^ { k } | \neq | \Omega _ { i } ^ { k } \cup \Omega _ { i - 1 } ^ { k } |$ holds.
If the above condition is satisfied, $\Omega _ { i } ^ { k }$ is updated with $\Omega _ { i } ^ { k } = \Omega _ { i } ^ { k } \cup \Omega _ { i - 1 } ^ { k }$ before sending to the (i − 1)-th agent.
Subsequently, the i-th agent continues to receive $\Omega _ { i - 1 } ^ { k }$ from (i − 1)-th agent.
Once the set $\Omega _ { i } ^ { k }$ is no longer updated, $J _ { i } ^ { k }$ is computed with $\begin{array} { r } { J _ { i } ^ { k } = \sum _ { \Omega _ { i } ^ { k } } J _ { E _ { i } } ^ { k } } \end{array}$ .
