$$\mathcal {L} (\gamma , P, K (\theta), \mathcal {S}) :=\frac {1}{\gamma} \sum_ {s _ {i} \in \mathcal {S}} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {\min (m _ {1}, p _ {1})} \left(\left[ \sigma_ {j} ((P \star K (\theta)) (s _ {i})) - \gamma \right] _ {+}\right) ^ {2}, \tag {10}$$

where

$$
[ \cdot ] _ {+}: \mathbb {R} \to \overline {{\mathbb {R} ^ {+}}}, \quad x \mapsto \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} x & \text { if } x \geq 0, \\ 0 & \text { if } x <   0, \end{array} \right.
$$

${ \mathcal { S } } \in { \mathrm { i } } \mathbb { R }$ is the set of sample points at which the closed-loop transfer function is evaluated, and $\sigma _ { j }$ denotes the j-th singular value of its matrix argument. In Algorithm 1, we minimize $\mathcal { L } \mathrm { ~ w . r . ~ t . ~ } \theta$ for decreasing values of the threshold value γ to attain a controller $\mathbf { K } _ { \mathsf { p H } } ( \theta )$ that leads to a small $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm of the closed-loop transfer function. In Schwerdtner and Voigt (2020, Remark 3.1) we explain the benefits resulting from a minimization of L compared to a direct minimization of the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm in the context of model order reduction. The arguments carry over directly to $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis.

1. The repeated computation of the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm of the (potentially large-scale) closed-loop transfer function is computationally demanding despite novel approaches for the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm computation of large-scale transfer functions (Aliyev et al., 2017; Guglielmi et al., 2013; Mitchell and Overton, 2016). In contrast to that, an evaluation of $\mathcal { L }$ can be carried out even for large-scale plants and the plant transfer function evaluations can be cached for subsequent evaluations of L.

Algorithm 1: SOBSYN  
Input : Plant transfer function P, initial controller transfer function $K(\theta_{0})$ with parameter $\theta_{0} \in R^{n_{\theta}}$ , initial sample point set $S \subset iR$ , upper bound $\gamma_{u} > 0$ , bisection tolerance $\varepsilon_{1} > 0$ , termination tolerance $\varepsilon_{2} > 0$ Output: $H_{\infty}$ controller of order k

1 Set j := 0 and $\gamma_{1} := 0$ .

2 while $(\gamma_{\mathrm{u}} - \gamma_{1}) / (\gamma_{\mathrm{u}} + \gamma_{1}) > \varepsilon_{1}$ do

3 Set $\gamma := (\gamma_{\mathrm{u}} + \gamma_{1}) / 2$ .

4 Update the sample point set S using Schwerdtner and Voigt (2021, Alg. 3.1).
