where $i _ { c }$ is the index of the CAV that may collide with CAV i at merging point $m = \{ 1 , . . . , n _ { i } \}$ where $n _ { i }$ is the total number of MPs that CAV i passes in the CZ. The determination of CAV $i _ { c }$ depends on the policy adopted for sequencing CAVs through the $\mathrm { C Z , }$ such as First-In-First-Out (FIFO) based on the arrival times of CAVs, or any other desired policy. It is worth noting that this constraint only applies at a certain time $t _ { i } ^ { m }$ which obviously depends on how the CAVs are controlled. As an example, in Fig. 1 under FIFO, we have $i _ { c } = i - 1$ and $t _ { i } ^ { m } = t _ { i } ^ { f }$ since the MP defines the exit from the CZ.

Constraint 3 (Vehicle limitations): Finally, there are constraints on the speed and acceleration for each $i \in F ( t ) ;$ :

$$\nu_ {\min} \leq \nu_ {i} (t) \leq \nu_ {\max}, \forall t \in [ t _ {i} ^ {0}, t _ {i} ^ {f} ] \tag {5}u _ {\min} \leq u _ {i} (t) \leq u _ {\max}, \forall t \in [ t _ {i} ^ {0}, t _ {i} ^ {f} ], \tag {6}$$

where $\nu _ { \mathrm { m a x } } > 0$ and $\nu _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } \geq 0$ denote the maximum and minimum speed allowed in the CZ for CAV i, $u _ { \mathrm { m i n } } < 0$ and $u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } > 0$ denote the minimum and maximum control for CAV i , respectively.

Optimal Control Problem formulation. Our goal is to determine a control law achieving objectives 1-2 subject to constraints 1-3 for each $i \in F ( t )$ governed by the dynamics (1). Choosing $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { L } _ { i } ( u _ { i } ( t ) ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 } u _ { i } ^ { 2 } ( t ) } \end{array}$ and normalizing travel time and $\scriptstyle { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } u _ { i } ^ { 2 } ( t )$ , we use the weight $\alpha \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ to construct a convex combination as follows:

$$\min _ {u _ {i} (t), t _ {i} ^ {f}} J _ {i} \left(u _ {i} (t), t _ {i} ^ {f}\right) = \int_ {t _ {i} ^ {0}} ^ {t _ {i} ^ {f}} \left(\alpha + \frac {(1 - \alpha) \frac {1}{2} u _ {i} ^ {2} (t)}{\frac {1}{2} \max \left\{u _ {\max} ^ {2} , u _ {\min} ^ {2} \right\}}\right) d t. \tag {7}$$

Letting $\begin{array} { r } { \beta : = \frac { \alpha \operatorname* { m a x } \{ u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { 2 } , u _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ^ { 2 } \} } { 2 ( 1 - \alpha ) } } \end{array}$ , we obtain a simplified form:

$$\min _ {u _ {i} (t), t _ {i} ^ {f}} J _ {i} (u _ {i} (t), t _ {i} ^ {f}) := \beta (t _ {i} ^ {f} - t _ {i} ^ {0}) + \int_ {t _ {i} ^ {0}} ^ {t _ {i} ^ {f}} \frac {1}{2} u _ {i} ^ {2} (t) d t, \tag {8}$$
