It is important to note that each instance of the QP (32) is now triggered by one of the following two events where $k = 1 , 2 , \dots$ . is a local event (rather than time step) counter:

• Event 1: the state of CAV i reaches the boundary of $S _ { i } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ .   
• Event 2: the state of CAV $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ reaches the boundary of $S _ { r } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ , if $\mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ is nonempty. In this case either $r = i _ { p }$ or $r = i _ { c }$ (e.g., in the merging problem $i _ { c } = i - 1 \neq i _ { p }$ if such a CAV exists). Thus, Event 2 is further identified by the CAV which triggers it and denoted accordingly by Event 2(r ), $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ .

As a result, $t _ { i , k } , k = 1 , 2 , \ldots$ . is unknown in advance but can be determined by CAV i through:

$$t _ {i, k} = \min \left\{t > t _ {i, k - 1}: | \mathbf {x} _ {i} (t) - \mathbf {x} _ {i} (t _ {i, k - 1}) | = \mathbf {s} _ {i} \right. \tag {33}$$

where $t _ { i , 0 } = t _ { i } ^ { 0 }$ . Note that k is a local event counter for each i so, strictly speaking, we should use $k _ { i }$ . Instead, the index k can be dropped and we can write $\mathbf { x } _ { i } ( t _ { i , \mathrm { l a s t } } )$ rather than ${ \bf x } _ { i } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ . However, when there is no ambiguity, we will simply write $\mathbf { x } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ to indicate that $t _ { i }$ is the “last event” occurring at i .

The definition above is based on events which directly affect CAV i (leading to i solving a QP) whether they are triggered by i or $r \neq i$ . Alternatively, we may think of any CAV i as generating Event 1 leading to a new QP solution by CAV i itself and Event 2(i ) which affects some $j \in \{ l | i \in$ $\mathcal { R } _ { l } ( t ) \}$ , i.e., i is relevant to some $j \neq i .$ In this case, a violation of the bound of $S _ { i } ( t _ { i , k - 1 } )$ or $S _ { i } ( t _ { j , k - 1 } )$ by the evolving state of CAV i triggers events relevant to CAV i or j , respectively.

Events 1,2(r ) can be detected through the dynamics in (1) or from on-board state measurements, if available, along with state information from relevant other CAVs (e.g., CAVs $i _ { p }$ and $i _ { c }$ in Fig. 1) through the coordinator. Finally, note that because of the Lipschitz continuity of the dynamics in (1) and the fact that the control is constant within an inter-event interval, Zeno behavior does not occur in this framework.

The following theorem formalizes our analysis by showing that if new constraints of the general form (31) hold, then our original CBF constraints (11), (15) and (18), (19) also hold.
