\cdot \left[ \begin{array}{c c} I _ {m} & S _ {\mathbf {K}} - N _ {\mathbf {K}} \\ - S + N & I _ {m} \end{array} \right] ^ {- 1} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & (G _ {\mathbf {K}} + F _ {\mathbf {K}}) ^ {\top} Q _ {\mathbf {K}} \\ (G + F) ^ {\top} Q & 0 \end{array} \right].
$$

Note the two additional minus signs compared to (2) that are due to the negative interconnection of $\mathbf { P _ { p H } }$ and $\mathbf { K } _ { \mathsf { p H } } .$ . This matrix has the structure of a Schur complement. By reverting the Schur complement and some additional permutations and scalings, it can be seen that this matrix has the same eigenvalues as the regular index-one matrix pencil (as defined in Kunkel and Mehrmann (2006, Chapter 2))

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} s I _ {n} - (J - R) Q & 0 & - G + F & 0 \\ 0 & s I _ {k} - \left(J _ {\mathbf {K}} - R _ {\mathbf {K}}\right) Q _ {\mathbf {K}} & 0 & - G _ {\mathbf {K}} + F _ {\mathbf {K}} \\ \left(G + F\right) ^ {\top} Q & 0 & S - N & I _ {m} \\ 0 & \left(G _ {\mathbf {K}} + F _ {\mathbf {K}}\right) ^ {\top} Q _ {\mathbf {K}} & - I _ {m} & S _ {\mathbf {K}} - N _ {\mathbf {K}} \end{array} \right] \tag {6}
$$

except for 2m additional eigenvalues at infinity. This pencil can be written as $s \mathcal { E } - ( \mathcal { I } - \mathcal { R } ) \mathcal { Q }$ , where $\mathcal { E } ^ { \top } \mathcal { Q } \succeq 0$ with $\begin{array} { l } { \mathcal { Q } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( Q , Q _ { \bf K } , I _ { m } , I _ { m } ) \ \succ \ 0 , \ \mathcal { I } \ = \ - \mathcal { I } ^ { \top } } \end{array}$ , and $\mathcal { R } \succeq 0 . ^ { 5 }$ Hence, it is a dissipative Hamiltonian pencil. Since the pencil $s \mathcal { E } - \mathcal { Q }$ is regular as well, the assertion follows from Mehl et al. (2021, Thm. 2). □

Remark 1. Proposition 1 only shows that the negative feedback interconnection of the plant and the controller results in a Lyapunov stable closed-loop system. However, the closed-loop system matrix may still have undesired eigenvalues on the imaginary axis. For the unstructured problem, there are conditions that guarantee the existence of an asymptotically stabilizing full-order controller. However, for fixed-order control, these conditions fail to be valid, see, e. g., Geromel et al. (1998). Throughout our paper we assume that that an asymptotically stabilizing pH controller exists. An obvious sufficient condition that is also often satisfied in practice is the asymptotic stability of $( J - R ) Q ,$ this has also been assumed in the recent work Breiten and Karsai (2022).
