# III. SOLVING COORP WITH ADAPTIVE OBSERVER

In this section, an ADP-based approach with distributed adaptive observer is proposed with stability and convergence analysis provided. To begin with, we consider observing the unknown exosystem states. The local observation error for the agent i is defined as follows.

$$\epsilon_ {i} = \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} a _ {i j} (\eta_ {i} - \eta_ {j}) + m _ {i i} (\eta_ {i} - v), \tag {6}$$

such that $\eta _ { i }$ and $\epsilon _ { i }$ are vectors in the form of

$$
\eta_ {i} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l} \eta_ {i, 1} & \dots & \eta_ {i, q} \end{array} \right] ^ {\mathrm{T}}, \epsilon_ {i} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l} \epsilon_ {i, 1} & \dots & \epsilon_ {i, q} \end{array} \right] ^ {\mathrm{T}}. \tag {7}
$$

By having $\epsilon _ { i }  0 \forall i \in \mathcal { V } ,$ , it is then achievable that $\eta _ { i } \ \to$ $v , \forall i \in \mathcal { V }$ . This enables us to reconstruct the exostate v for nontarget nodes that do not have access to it. The distributed adaptive observer is as follows.

$$\dot {\eta} _ {i} = \hat {E} _ {i} \eta_ {i} + (\mathbb {A} _ {m} - \hat {E} _ {i}) \epsilon_ {i}, \tag {8}$$

with $\mathbb { A } _ { m } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q \times q }$ a Hurwitz diagonal matrix defined as

$$\mathbb {A} _ {m} = - \mathrm{bdiag} (a _ {r}. I _ {2}) _ {q / 2}, a _ {r} > 0, r = 1, \dots , q / 2. \tag {9}$$

The estimation of the exosystem matrix E for the $i ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ follower is

$$
\hat {E} _ {i} = \mathrm{bdiag} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & (\hat {w} _ {r}) _ {i} \\ - (\hat {w} _ {r}) _ {i} & 0 \end{array} \right] _ {q / 2}, \tag {10}
$$

where $\left( \hat { w } _ { r } \right) _ { i }$ is the estimate of the frequencies of the leader system for the $i ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ subsytem described by the following dynamical equation.

$$\left(\dot {\hat {w}} _ {r}\right) _ {i} = \kappa_ {r} \left(\eta_ {i, (2 r - 1)} \epsilon_ {i, (2 r)} - \eta_ {i, (2 r)} \epsilon_ {i, (2 r - 1)}\right), \tag {11}$$

with $\kappa _ { r } > 0$ being a constant design gain.

Lemma $1 ( / 2 2 | ) .$ : Under Assumption 2, by considering $( 8 ) – ( 1 1 )$ the adaptation law (11) guarantee that $\eta _ { i } ~ \to ~ v$ and ${ \hat { E } } _ { i } ~ \to ~ E$ as $t  \infty , \forall i \in \mathcal { V }$ .

With the estimated exosystem matrix and exostate, we will introduce the ADP strategy to compute the optimal feedbackfeedforward control policy to solve the COORP.
