# 6. Numerical Experiments

In our first experiment, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on the passive systems within the $C O M P l _ { e } i b$ benchmark collection (Leibfritz, 2004), which is often used to benchmark $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controller synthesis algorithms; see, e. g. Apkarian and Noll (2006); Burke et al. (2006). We only use plants, which can be rewritten as in (5), as our algorithm only applies to these cases. We compare our method to the general purpose fixed-order $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis methods HIFOO and hinfstruct.

The structure of this experiment is as follows. For each benchmark plant, we apply HIFOO, hinfstruct, and our method to generate a controller for controller orders $k = 1 , \ldots , 5 .$ . After a comparison of the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance of all controllers, we solve (7) to compute passive approximations to the controllers computed with HIFOO and hinfstruct and re-evaluate the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance for the passive controllers. We only report a subset of the conducted experiments that is representative for our overall observations.7

In Figure 2, we plot the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance of the controllers computed with our method and with HIFOO and hinfstruct for different models and controller orders. There are some differences in the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performances accross the models and controller orders but no method is systematically leading to worse results. This is despite the fact that SOBSYN is restricted to compute pH controllers only. Just for the DLR1 model, our method leads to slightly worse controllers than the other two methods for the orders $k = 2 , \ldots , 5$ .
