# II. PROBLEM DESCRIPTION

We consider an optimal control problem exhibiting discontinuities in the system dynamics and in its performance index. Specifically, let

$$
\dot {x} = f (x, u, t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} f _ {1} (x, u, t), & \text { if   } g (x) \leq 0 \\ f _ {2} (x, u, t), & \text { if   } g (x) \geq 0 \end{array} \right., \tag {2}
$$

where $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m } , g ( x ) = 0$ is the switching interface, the initial condition is $x ( t _ { 0 } ) = x _ { 0 } , g ( x _ { 0 } ) < 0$ , and the desired final condition is $x ( t _ { f } ) = x _ { f } , g ( x _ { f } ) > 0$ at a fixed final time $t _ { f }$ . Our objective is to minimize the performance index:

$$J = \phi (x (t _ {f})) + \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {f}} L (x, u, t) \mathrm{d} t, \tag {3}$$

where

$$
L (x, u, t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} L _ {1} (x, u, t), \text {   if   } g (x) \leq 0 \\ L _ {2} (x, u, t), \text {   if   } g (x) \geq 0 \end{array} \right., \tag {4}
$$

and $\phi ( x ( t _ { f } ) )$ is the terminal cost. Note that J is a function of the switching time instant τ . Given a switching time instant $\tau ,$ this optimal control problem may be regarded as a twophase fixed final time optimal control problem.

Remark 1: In this paper, the switching interface is assumed to be differentiable. The gradient of a scalar function, $g ( x )$ , is defined as a column vector $\begin{array} { r } { m ( x ) = \frac { \partial g ( x ) } { \partial x } } \end{array}$ .

Remark 2: We make the physical restriction that the state variables must be continuous at the interface, i.e., $x ( \tau { + } ) =$ $x ( \tau - ) = x ( \tau )$ . There are no jumps in the system itself, and therefore no impulsive causes.

Remark 3: The theory can be extended to systems with multiple switching interfaces.

We define the Hamiltonian of the system as usual: $H ( x , \lambda , u , t ) = L ( x , u , t ) + \lambda ^ { \top } f ( x , u , t )$ . For a time-invariant system, the Hamiltonian is known to be constant [17]. In the following, we will prove that the Hamiltonian is continuous with respect to time at the switching interface for two-modes systems. The derivation uses standard variational principles and follows [11].

Theorem 1: The Hamiltonian H for the two-modes problem $( 2 ) - ( 3 )$ is continuous as a function of time when the state crosses the interface.

Proof: Consider the following cost function:
