# 3.3 Reward functions and hand-shaking design

The single-agent system implements a weighted sum method to incorporate the optimization objectives by

$$r _ {s} (t) = - \alpha P _ {\text { loss }} (t) - \beta \left| S o C _ {\text { ref }} - S o C (t) \right| \tag {16}$$

where ?? is a scaling factor; $S o C _ { r e f }$ is the target battery SoC value to be maintained during the driving; and $\beta$ is a conditional weight factor, which yields

$$
\beta = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0, & S o C (t) \geq S o C _ {r e f} \\ 2, & S o C (t) <   S o C _ {r e f} \end{array} \right. \tag {17}
$$

The conditional weight factor will allow the DDPG agent has higher priority in minimizing fuel consumption when the SoC level is high.

The proposed multi-agent learning system provides access to comprehensive evaluations of the optimization objectives by incorporating global reward $( r _ { g l o b a l } ) .$ , and local rewards $( r _ { l o c a l , 1 }$ and $r _ { l o c a l , 2 } )$ in a hand-shaking manner through the independence ratio $R _ { \mathrm { i n d } }$ as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} r _ {m 1} = R _ {\text { ind }} * r _ {\text { global }} + r _ {\text { local }, 1} \\ r _ {m 2} = R _ {\text { ind }} * r _ {\text { global }} + r _ {\text { local }, 2} \end{array} \right. \tag {18}
$$

where $r _ { m 1 }$ and $r _ { m 2 }$ are the rewards for the first DDPG agent and the second DDPG agent, respectively. Since, minimizing the power loss is the main optimization objective, the power loss value is the element for the global reward function,

$$r _ {g l o b a l} = - P _ {l o s s} (t) \tag {19}$$

Two local reward functions are designed to balance the usages of the ICE engine and the battery with two DDPG agents. $r _ { l o c a l , 1 }$ and $r _ { l o c a l , 2 }$ are allocated for the first DDPG agent and the second DDPG agent respectively, and they can be calculated by:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{c} r _ {\text {local,1}} = - \beta \left| S o C _ {\text {ref}} - S o C (t) \right| \\ r _ {\text {local,2}} = - \alpha L o s s _ {e n g} (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {20}
$$

where ?? is the scaling factor and $\beta$ is the weighting factor. In this research, ?? and ??in the multi-agent system are set as same values with the single-agent system.
