Checking K for passivity is straight-forward. We can simply check if the KYP inequality can be satisfied using either an ARE or LMI solver. For passivity enforcement, there exist several strategies, such as Grivet-Talocia (2004); Coelho et al. (2004); Gillis and Sharma (2018). An extensive discussion on wellestablished passivity enforcement methods is presented in Grivet-Talocia and Gustavsen (2015, Chapter 10). In our numerical experiments, we use the LMI-based method for passivity enforcement presented in Coelho et al. (2004) due to its moderate computational cost for small controller orders and its straight-forward implementation. It is based on computing a minimally perturbed controller output $\widetilde { C } _ { \bf K } : = C _ { \bf K } + \Xi L _ { \mathrm { c } } ,$ where $L _ { \mathrm { c } }$ is the Cholesky factor of the controllability Gramian6 of K, such that the

perturbed KYP inequality

$$
\mathcal {W} (X, \Xi) := \left[ \begin{array}{c c} - A _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} X - X A _ {\mathbf {K}} & \widetilde {C} _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} - X B _ {\mathbf {K}} \\ \widetilde {C} _ {\mathbf {K}} - B _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} X & D _ {\mathbf {K}} + D _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} \end{array} \right] \succeq 0.
$$

admits a solution. The convex optimization problem that computes a minimally perturbed controller is given by

$$\min \| \Xi \| _ {\mathrm{F}} \quad \text { s. t. } \quad \mathcal {W} (X, \Xi) \succeq 0, \quad X \succ 0, \tag {7}$$

which is a standard LMI problem that we solve in our numerical experiments using the method presented in O’Donoghue et al. (2016).

The main problem with this passivity enforcement method is emphasized in our numerical experiments: The generic controllers computed using either hinfstruct or HIFOO often require a large perturbation to be made passive, which deteriorates the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance. Moreover, passivity enforcement methods focus on minimally changing the transfer function of the controller but naturally do not take the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance of the resulting closedloop transfer function into account. Instead, the method we present in the following section computes passive controllers that aim directly at minimizing the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm of the closed-loop transfer function.
