# 3. Port-Hamiltonian Systems

In this article, we consider plant models, for which the subsystem from controller input to measured output can be written as a pH system.

Definition 1. A linear, constant-coefficient dynamical system of the form

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} (t) \\ y (t) \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} (J - R) Q & G - F \\ (G + F) ^ {\top} Q & S - N \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} x (t) \\ u (t) \end{array} \right] \tag {3}
$$

is called a port-Hamiltonian system, if the matrices $J , R , Q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n } , G , F \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ , and S, $N \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times m }$ satisfy the following constraints:

(i) The matrices J and N are skew-symmetric.   
(ii) The passivity matrix $W : = \left[ \begin{array} { l } { R \ F } \\ { F ^ { \top } \ S } \end{array} \right]$ is symmetric positive semi-definite.   
(iii) Q is symmetric positive definite.

The Hamiltonian (energy-storage) function $\mathcal { H } : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R }$ is then given by

$$\mathcal {H} (x) = \frac {1}{2} x ^ {\top} Q x. \tag {4}$$

In this way, the plants that we consider can be formulated as

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} (t) \\ z (t) \\ y (t) \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} (J - R) Q & B _ {1} & G - F \\ C _ {1} & D _ {1 1} & D _ {1 2} \\ (G + F) ^ {\top} Q & D _ {2 1} & S - N \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} x (t) \\ w (t) \\ u (t) \end{array} \right], \tag {5}
$$

with matrices $J , R , Q , G , F , S ,$ and N that satisfy the constraints imposed in Definition 1.

Port-Hamiltonian systems are also passive. This follows from the fact that the Hamiltonian (4) of a pH system (3) is a so-called storage function as it fulfills the dissipation inequality

$$\mathcal {H} (x (t _ {1})) \leq \mathcal {H} (x (t _ {0})) + \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {1}} y (t) ^ {\top} u (t) d t$$

for each solution trajectory $( u , x , y )$ of (3) and for each $t _ { 0 } , t _ { 1 } \geq 0$ with $t _ { 0 } \leq t _ { 1 }$ . The converse is also true under the assumption of minimali $\mathrm { 5 y ^ { 4 } } .$ , i. e., each minimal passive system can be realized as a pH system by suitable statespace transformations (Beattie et al., 2022, Cor. 2). For a detailed analysis of such realizations, see also Cherifi et al. (2022). In the next section, we use this fact to define an intuitive approach to passivity-based $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control.
