# 7. Conclusion

We have presented SOBSYN, a new algorithm for the computation of fixed-order pH controllers for pH plants that aim at a low $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm of the resulting closed-loop system. The main features of our algorithm in comparison to other fixed-order $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ methods are the sample-based objective function and the passivity-based stability guarantee. Both features facilitate the application of our method to pH plants with high state-space dimension. Moreover, the sample-based nature of the objective function and its passivity-based stability also enables the computation of $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controllers in a purely data-driven way. Therefore, we can compute passive $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controllers for passive plants even if no access to the plant system matrices is possible but only transfer function evaluations are available.

While our adaptive sampling procedure works well in our experiments (and also in the much larger set of previously conducted model order reduction experiments), it is still possible that sharp peaks in the spectral norm of the closed-loop frequency response are missed. Therefore, it is recommended to validate the final controller performance. For small or medium systems, this can be done quickly using well-established $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm computation. For large-scale systems, an $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ certificate developed in Schwerdtner et al. (2020) may be used. We currently investigate the incorporation of such a certificate into the sampling stage of our method.
