# 1.1 Related Works

Lyapunov Method in Machine Learning The recent work Chang et al. (2019) proposed an NN framework of learning the Lyapunov function and the linear control function simultaneously for stabilizing ODEs. In comparison, we select several specific types of NNs which have typical properties of the Lyapunov function. For instance, we use the input convex neural network (ICNN) Amos et al. (2017), constructing a positively definite convex function as a neural Lyapunov function (Kolter & Manek, 2019; Takeishi & Kawahara, 2021), and we construct the NN in a quadratic form (Richards et al., 2018; Gallieri et al., 2019) for linear or sublinear systems where the SDP method is often used to find the SOS-type Lyapunov function (Henrion & Garulli, 2005; Jarvis-Wloszek et al., 2003; Parrilo, 2000).

Stochastic Stability Theory of SDEs Stochastic stability theory for SDEs have been systematically and fruitfully achieved in the past several decades (Kushner, 1967; Arnold, 2007; Mao, 1991, 1994a). The positive effects of stochasticity have also been cultivated in control fields (Mao et al., 2002; Deng et al., 2008; Caraballo et al., 2003; Appleby et al., 2008; Mao et al., 2007). These, therefore, motivate us to develop only neural stochastic control to stabilize different sorts of dynamical systems in this article. More stochastic stability theory for different kinds of systems are included in Appleby et al. (2006); Appleby (2003); Caraballo & Robinson (2004); Wang & Zhu (2017).
