# 3 Main Results

This section presents a distributed coverage algorithm, and theoretical analysis is conducted as well. Firstly, Some key lemmas are provided, followed by a distributed search algorithm to find optimal solutions to Problem (5) with a specified tolerance. Then technical analysis is presented to work out the conditions that guarantee the accuracy of the proposed algorithm. Finally, theoretical results are applied to the classic location optimization problem.

Lemma 3.1. Partition dynamics (2) equalizes the workload on each subregion.

Proof. Construct the following Lyapunov function

$$V (\varphi) = \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} (m _ {i} - \bar {m}) ^ {2}, \quad \bar {m} = \frac {1}{N} \int_ {0} ^ {2 \pi} \omega (\theta) d \theta$$

The time derivative of Lyapunov function along the trajectory of the system is given as follows

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {d V (\varphi)}{d t} = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} (m _ {i} - \bar {m}) \dot {m} _ {i} = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} m _ {i} \dot {m} _ {i} - \bar {m} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \dot {m} _ {i} \\ = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} m _ {i} \left(\dot {\varphi} _ {i + 1} \omega (\varphi_ {i + 1}) - \dot {\varphi} _ {i} \omega (\varphi_ {i})\right) \\ = - \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \left(m _ {i} - m _ {i - 1}\right) \dot {\varphi} _ {i} \omega (\varphi_ {i}) \\ = - \kappa_ {\varphi} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} (m _ {i} - m _ {i - 1}) ^ {2} \omega (\varphi_ {i}) \\ \end{array}
$$

Since both $\kappa _ { \varphi } > 0$ and $\omega \left( \varphi _ { i } \right) > 0 ,$ , this implies that $\dot { V } ( \varphi ) < 0$ . Therefore, the state of the system will approach the equilibrium point, which means that $m _ { 1 } ( t ) = m _ { 2 } ( t ) = . . . = m _ { N } ( t )$ , as time goes to the infinity. □

Remark 3.1. Let $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { \varphi } ( t ) = \frac { 1 } { N } \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \varphi _ { i } ( t ) } \end{array}$ represent the average phase of all partition bars. The time derivative of ϕ¯ (t) is given by

$$\frac {d \bar {\varphi} (t)}{d t} = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \dot {\varphi} _ {i} (t) = \frac {\kappa_ {\varphi}}{N} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \left(m _ {i} - m _ {i - 1}\right) = 0,$$

which implies that the average phase of all partition bars keeps unchanged during the entire partition process.

Lemma 3.2.

$$\sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} (m _ {i} - m _ {i - 1}) ^ {2} \geq \frac {2 \lambda_ {\min} (S) V (\varphi)}{N},$$

where $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( S )$ denotes the minimum eigenvalue of the positive definite matrix S as follows
