The digraph $\mathcal { G } = \{ \nu , \varepsilon \}$ , where $\mathcal { V } = \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N \}$ is the set of nodes with 0 denoting the leader modeled by (1), and $\mathcal { F }$ represents the set of followers modeled by (2) and (3). E represents the edge set $\mathcal { E } \subset \mathcal { V } \times \mathcal { V }$ where an edge from node i to node j is denoted by $( i , j )$ and ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { i }$ denotes the subset of V which consists of all the neighbors of the $i ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ node. The adjacency matrix of the digraph G is denoted by A, such that $\mathcal { A } = [ a _ { i j } ]$ satisfies $a _ { i i } = 0$ and $a _ { i j } > 0$ when $( j , i ) \ \in \mathcal { E }$ . The Laplacian matrix of digraph G is denoted by $\mathcal { L } = \left[ l _ { i j } \right]$ , where $\begin{array} { r } { l _ { i i } = \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { N } a _ { i j } } \end{array}$ and $l _ { i j } = - a _ { i j } \mathrm { i f } \ i \neq j .$ The target matrix $\mathcal { M } = [ m _ { i j } ]$ represents the communication links between the leader and the followers, wherein $m _ { i i } = 1 { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } i \in \mathcal { T }$ and $m _ { i i } = 0$ otherwise, where $\tau$ is a set of nodes with direct contact with the leader.

Our main goal is to design a data-driven distributed optimal control policy for the MASs described by (1)-(3) to solve the COORP. Inspired by our previous work [23], the proposed method is built upon an ADP approach. In particular, policy iteration (PI) is used, whose rate of convergence is quadratic [42]. Different from [23], we drop the assumption of the a priori knowledge of the exosystem matrix. Furthermore, the exostates are not accessible by all the followers. Some standard assumptions are taken into consideration while solving the CORP, which are listed as follows.

Assumption 1: The pairs $( A _ { i } , B _ { i } )$ and $( C _ { i } , A _ { i } )$ are stabilizable and observable for all $i \in { \mathcal { F } } .$ .

Assumption 2: The leader interacts with at least one follower, $\mathrm { i . e . , } \tau$ is nonempty, and the graph G is undirected and connected if eliminating the leader node and all edges connected to the leader.

Assumption 3: rank $\cdot \left( \left[ \begin{array} { c c } { A _ { i } - \lambda I } & { \bar { B _ { i } } } \\ { C _ { i } } & { 0 } \end{array} \right] \right) = n _ { i } + p _ { i } , \forall \lambda \in \sigma ( E )$ Bi , and $i \in { \mathcal { F } } .$ .
