Prominent characteristics are invariance, robustness and order reduction [30-33], making it a robust or invariant control system.
‘Invariance’ in loose terms means the system is completely insensitive to parametric uncertainty and external disturbance.
Therefore, a principle operation mode of VSC arises, termed as ‘sliding mode’ in which the border between the sets, defined as the sliding surface encompasses different vector fields directed towards the sliding surface.
Sliding surface is an invariant set and under proper conditions the state trajectory becomes independent from the original system dynamics [32-33].
Sliding mode control (SMC) is a nonlinear control method which is simple and easy to implement.
The control law with sliding surface is designed such that states move to the sliding surface in a finite time and stays there forever [34-44].
The sliding mode controller is capable of controlling the nonlinear systems over the desired response behavior.
Main advantages are the tailored dynamic behavior of the system for a particular choice of switching function and the closed loop response becomes totally insensitive to particular classes of uncertainty and disturbances, and a very quick response time.
To specify the performance directly, also makes it an attractive choice for design.
The method has gained a lot of attention since early sixties in the former USSR and in the modern world since early eighties (Emelyaunov 60’s, Utkin (77, 91), and Levant 87).
Sliding mode design approach consists of designing a switching function so that the sliding motion satisfies the design specifications and selection of a control law making the switching function attractive to the boundary manifold [30-35].
Some advantages of the Sliding mode control method are robustness to parameter uncertainty, finite time convergence, insensitivity to bounded disturbances, reduced order compensated dynamics, very fast dynamics response, easy implementation and computational simplicity as opposed to the other robust control approaches [39-41].
After designing the switching surface, next step is to guarantee the existence of a sliding mode.
The existence condition for sliding mode is if the velocity vectors of the trajectory always point towards the switching surface, in the vicinity of the sliding manifold $s = 0$ .
