The goal is to develop a self-triggered asynchronous algorithm to determine the sequence of time instants $t _ { i , k }$ and the control input $u _ { i } ( t ) , t \in [ t _ { i , k } , t _ { i , k + 1 } )$ for each CAV to solve the problem formed in (21). Providing a lower bound for the inter-event time interval is an imperative feature in a self-triggered scheme. It is worth mentioning that since Zeno behavior never occurs under Lypschitz continuity, such a guarantee is not necessary for the eventtriggered control algorithm. To provide such a guarantee for the generated time instants $t _ { i , k }$ , there should exist some $T _ { d } > 0$ such that $| t _ { i , k + 1 } - t _ { i , k } | \geq T _ { d }$ . This is a design parameter which depends on the sensor sampling rate, as well as the clock of the on-board embedded system on each CAV. For the same reason, the time-instants $t _ { i , k }$ are calculated such that $( t _ { i , k }$ mod $T _ { d } ) = 0$ where mod denotes the modulo operator. In contrast to the timedriven scheme with a fixed sampling time $\Delta ,$ each CAV $i \in F ( t _ { i , k } )$ calculates the time instant $t _ { i , k }$ in which the $\mathrm { Q P }$ problem must be solved in a self-triggered fashion. As in the event-triggered scheme, at each time instant $t _ { i , k }$ , CAV i solves its QP problem to obtain $u _ { i } ( t _ { i , k } )$ . However, unlike the event-triggered scheme, CAV i also calculates the next time instant $t _ { i , k + 1 }$ at which it should resolve the QP problem. Note that similar to the time-driven scheme, the newly obtained control input, $u _ { i } ( t _ { i , k } )$ is held constant over the time interval $[ t _ { i , k } , t _ { i , k + 1 } )$ for CAV i .

We address two problems in the following. First, it will be shown how a lower bound $T _ { d }$ on the inter-event time interval can be ensured. Second, we will show how each CAV $i \in F ( t _ { i , k } )$ specifies the time instants $t _ { i , k }$ .

1) Minimum Inter-event Time, $T _ { d } \mathbf { : }$ In this subsection, it is shown how the CBF constraints (11), (15), (18), and (19) for the CAV i should be modified to ensure a minimum inter-event time $T _ { d } .$ . This is achieved by adding extra positive terms to the right hand side of these constraints. First, consider the maximum speed CBF constraint (18) to be satisfied when solving the QP problem at $t _ { i , k }$ with feasible solution $u _ { i } ( t _ { i , k } )$ . Thus, we have:

$$\mathcal {C} _ {i, 1} (t _ {i, k}, u _ {i} (t _ {i, k})) := - u _ {i} (t _ {i, k}) + k _ {3} b _ {3} (\mathbf {x} _ {i} (t _ {i, k})) \geq 0. \tag {42}$$
