In this paper, we consider state-dependent switched systems whose state remains continuous at the switching interface and only crosses the switching interface once. Our aim is to minimize (or maximize) a continuous (or discontinuous) performance index with Lagrange-type form for a fixed initial position, a given terminal time, and a-priori given switching interface.

The following is a compilation of previous work towards the limited scope problem. Reference [16] formulated a general Mayer-type optimization problem and studied its dynamics, optimal control, the notion of well-behaved solution, and necessary conditions for optimality. The article also provided geometric intuition of the jump conditions of the co-state, namely, $a \lambda ( \tau - ) + b \lambda ( \tau + ) + c \operatorname { g r a d } ( g \left[ x ( \tau ) \right] ) = 0 .$ , where λ is the co-state, grad $( g \left[ x ( \tau ) \right] )$ is the gradient of the switching interface at the switching state, $a , \ b , \ c$ are constants, and τ is the switching time instant. Reference [13] formulated a similar problem and employed classical variational and needle variation techniques to prove a set of necessary conditions for such systems, which showed the optimality condition related to the co-state satisfying $\lambda ( t _ { s } - ) ^ { o } = \lambda ( t _ { s } + ) ^ { o } + p \Delta _ { x } m | _ { t = t s }$ , where $t _ { s }$ is the switching time instant, $m ( x , t ) = 0$ is the switching interface, and p is a constant. The authors then proposed a gradient descent algorithm to solve the optimal control problem indirectly. Both papers provided a good qualitative analysis of the costate, resulting in the optimality condition for the co-state. However, the full characterization of the jump law for the co-state (e.g. the exact expression at the switching interface) and its applications have never been thoroughly examined to the best of our knowledge. Therefore, in this work, we explore the jump law of the co-state based on the results in [13] and show how we can use such information to efficiently solve optimal control for hybrid systems. Our contributions include the following:
