Communication Scheme. As mentioned earlier, a coordinator is responsible for exchanging information among CAVs (but does not exert any control). To accommodate event-triggered communication, the coordinator table in Fig. 1 is extended as shown in Table I so that it includes “relevant CAV info” data for each CAV i . In particular, in addition to the states of CAV i in column 2, denoted by $\mathbf { x } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ , the states of CAVs $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ are included, denoted by ${ \bf x } _ { r } ( t _ { i } )$ , in column 3, where CAV r affects the constraints of CAV i , i.e., $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ . In an event-driven scheme, frequent communication is generally not needed, since it occurs only when an event is triggered. CAV i updates its state in the coordinator table and re-solves a QP in two cases depending on which event occurs:

(i ) Event 1 triggered by i . The first step is state synchronization: CAV i requests current states from all relevant CAVs and the coordinator updates these (column 3), as well as the state $\mathbf { x } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ (column 2). CAV i then solves its QP while the coordinator notifies all CAVs $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ of the new CAV i state so they can update their respective boundary set $S _ { r } ( t _ { i } )$ . This may trigger an Event 2(r ) to occur at some future event time as in (33); such an event cannot be triggered instantaneously, as it takes some finite time for a bound in $S _ { r } ( t _ { i } )$ to be reached because of Lipschitz continuity in the dynamics. In addition, the coordinator notifies all CAVs j such that $i \in \mathcal { R } _ { j } ( t _ { i } )$ (i.e. i is relevant to j ) so that they can update their bounds $S _ { j } ( t _ { i } )$ respectively.

(i i ) Event 2(r ) is triggered by $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ . When CAV r reaches the boundary set $S _ { r } ( t _ { i } )$ it notifies the coordinator to update its state (column 2). The coordinator passes on this information to all CAVs j where $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { j } ( t _ { i } )$ , which includes i since $r \in \mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ , and the corresponding state of r is updated (column 3). Then, CAV i re-solves its QP and the coordinator updates ti to the current time and the state $\mathbf { x } _ { i } ( t _ { i } )$ (column 2) and the state ${ \bf x } _ { r } ( t _ { i } )$ (column 3). The rest of the process is the same as in case (i ).
