# IV. SIMULATION RESULTS

All algorithms in this section have been implemented using MATLAB. We used QUADPROG for solving QPs of the form (23), (32) and (67), LINGPROG for solving the linear programming in (27), (29) and (30), FMINCON for a nonlinear optimization problem arising when (27) and (29) become nonlinear, and ODE45 to integrate the vehicle dynamics.

We have considered the merging problem shown in Fig. 1 where CAVs are simulated according to Poisson arrival processes with an arrival rate which is fixed for the purpose of comparing the time-driven approach and the event-driven schemes (over different bound values in (33) for the event-triggered scheme and with different $T _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ for the self-triggered scheme). The initial speed $\nu _ { i } ( t _ { i , 0 } )$ is also randomly generated with a uniform distribution over [15m/s, 20m/s] at the origins O and $O ^ { \prime }$ , respectively. The parameters for (21), (32), and (67) are: $L = 4 0 0 \mathrm { m } , \varphi =$ $1 . 8 \mathrm { s } , \delta = 0 \mathrm { m } , u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } = 4 . 9 0 5 \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s } ^ { 2 } , u _ { \mathrm { m i n } } = - 5 . 8 8 6 \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s } ^ { 2 } , \nu _ { \mathrm { m a x } } =$ 30m/s, $\nu _ { \mathrm { m i n } } = 0 \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s } , k _ { 1 } = k _ { 2 } = k _ { 3 } = k _ { 4 } = 1 , \lambda = 1 0$ and $T _ { d } = 0 . 0 5$ . The sensor sampling rate is 20Hz, sufficiently high to avoid missing any triggering event as discussed earlier. The control update period for the time-driven control is $\Delta t = 0 . 0 5 s$ . For the event-triggered scheme, we let the bounds $S = [ s _ { x } , s _ { \nu } ]$ be the same for the all CAVs in the network and vary them between the values of $\{ [ 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 ] , [ 0 . 5 , 2 ] , [ 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 ] \}$ . For the self-triggered scheme, we set $T _ { \mathrm { m a x } } \in \{ 0 . 5 , 1 , 1 . 5 , 2 \}$ to allow a comprehensive comparison.

In our simulations, we included the computation of a more realistic energy consumption model [29] to supplement the simple surrogate $L _ { 2 } \mathrm { - n o r m } \ ( u ^ { 2 } )$ model in our analysis: $f _ { \mathrm { v } } ( t ) = f _ { \mathrm { c r u i s e } } ( t ) + f _ { \mathrm { a c c e l } } ( t )$ with

$$f _ {\mathrm{cruise}} (t) = \omega_ {0} + \omega_ {1} v _ {i} (t) + \omega_ {2} v _ {i} ^ {2} (t) + \omega_ {3} v _ {i} ^ {3} (t),f _ {\mathrm{accel}} (t) = (r _ {0} + r _ {1} v _ {i} (t) + r _ {2} v _ {i} ^ {2} (t)) u _ {i} (t).$$

where we used typical values for parameters $\omega _ { 1 } , \omega _ { 2 } , \omega _ { 3 } , r _ { 0 } , r _ { 1 }$ and, $r _ { 2 }$ as reported in [29].
