# 3 Conclusions

Adaptive self-tuning control of cooperative manipulators carrying a common object in the presence of position/orientation uncertainties in the closed-kinematic loop was presented. This allows accurate motion tracking performance in the presence of uncertainties in the relative position/orinetaiton of the manipulators’ bases as well as those of their end-effectors while grasping the object. The advantage of the control scheme is that it does not use either the measurement of the contact forces to compensate for the geometric uncertainties or a high precision end-point sensing device for fine calibration. However, the practical limitations of the method are that it assumes i) a rigid-body common object and ii) an initial coarse estimate of the kinematic parameters. Two cascaded recursive least-squares estimators were used to estimate the kinematic parameters in real-time. A cooperated controller was developed to take the estimated parameters in order to achieve motion tracking of a reference trajectory while minimizing the weighted Euclidean norm of the actuator forces. The proposed adaptive controller is singularity-free because it involves inverting a matrix computed at the estimated parameters that turned out to be always invertible. The convergence and stability of the combined system of the estimator and controller have been thoroughly analyzed and the results has shown that tracking performance can be achieved provided that i) the direction of the angular velocity of the object changes over time; ii) the initial value error of the kinematic parameters is sufficiently small.
