Figure 2: The sef-tuning cooperative control scheme.

Assuming that the direction of the angular velocity vector changes from time $t _ { m }$ to $t _ { n }$ , one can rewrite summation (20) as

$$
\boldsymbol {\Pi} = \boldsymbol {\Upsilon} - \sum_ { \begin{array}{c} i = k \\ i \neq n, m \end{array} } ^ {k + p} \left[ \boldsymbol {\omega} _ {2 _ {i}} \times \right] ^ {2}, \tag {21}
$$

where

$$\boldsymbol {\Upsilon} = - \left[ \boldsymbol {\omega} _ {2 m} \times \right] ^ {2} - \left[ \boldsymbol {\omega} _ {2 n} \times \right] ^ {2}.$$

The summation in the right-hand side of (21) is at least a positive semi-definite matrix. Since adding a positive semi-definite to a positive definite matrix always results in another positive definite matrix, positive definiteness of matrix Π rests on showing that Υ is a full-rank matrix. In a proof by contradiction, we show that Υ must be a full-rank matrix provided that $\omega _ { 2 _ { m } }$ and $\omega _ { 2 _ { n } }$ are not collinear. Since Υ is the sum of two positive semi-definite matrices, the only possibility for Υ being rank deficient is that there exists a non-zero vector $\mathbf { \nabla } \pm \mathbf { 0 }$ such that ${ \pmb v } ^ { T } { \pmb \Upsilon } { \pmb v } = 0$ . The latter equation in conjunction with the positive definiteness of $- [ \omega _ { 2 m } \times ] ^ { 2 }$ and $- [ \omega _ { 2 n } \times ] ^ { 2 }$ require that both identities

$$\boldsymbol {v} ^ {T} [ \boldsymbol {\omega} _ {2 _ {m}} \times ] ^ {2} \boldsymbol {v} = 0 \quad \text { and } \quad \boldsymbol {v} ^ {T} [ \boldsymbol {\omega} _ {2 _ {n}} \times ] ^ {2} \boldsymbol {v} = 0 \tag {22}$$

are satisfied. The former and latter equations imply that v must be parallel with vectors $\omega _ { 2 _ { m } }$ and $\omega _ { 2 n }$ , respectively. However, the only possibility of these to happen is that v is the zero vector because $\omega _ { 2 _ { m } }$ and $\omega _ { 2 _ { r } }$ n are linearly independent. This means that matrix Υ is full-rank and therefore Π is a positive definite matrix.
