In dynamic games with perfect and symmetric information, subgame perfect equilibrium (SPE) is an appropriate equilibrium concept. Markov Perfect Equilibria (MPE), introduced in [14], is a refinement of SPE that is also used, where players’ strategies depend on a coarser Markovian state of the systems, instead of the whole history of the game which grows exponentially with time and thus becomes unwieldy. An analogous notion to SPE for incomplete information games is perfect Bayesian equilibrium (PBE). However, when the number of players is large, computing MPE/PBE becomes intractable. To model the behavior of large population strategic interactions, mean-field games were introduced independently by [15], and [16]. In such games, there are large number of homogeneous strategic players, where each player has infinitesimal effect on system dynamics and is affected by other players through a mean-field population state. There have been a number of applications such as economic growth, security in networks, oil production, volatility formation, population dynamics (see [17]–[23] and references therein).

An engineering side of game theory is the theory of Mechanism design that deals with the design of games such that when acted upon by the strategic players, the equilibrium(s) of the game coincide with the outcome desired by the designer. It could be social welfare say desired by the government or profit maximization desired by private entities. Stackelberg equilibrium (SE) is a notion of equilibrium related to mechanism design. A Bayesian Stackelberg game is played between two players: a leader and a follower. The follower has a private type that only she observes, however, the leader knows the prior distribution on that state. The leader commits to a strategy that is observable to the follower. The follower then plays a best response to leader’s strategy to maximize its utility. Knowing that the follower will play a best response, the leader commits to and plays a strategy that maximizes his utility. Such pair of strategies of the leader and the follower is called a Stackelberg equilibrium. It is known that such strategies can provide higher utility to the leader than that obtained in a Nash equilibrium of the game.
