In such games, a Stackelberg Mean Field Equilibrium (SMFE) is defined through a coupled fixed-point equation as follows: the mean-field state evolves through a Fokker-Planck forward equation given an SMFE policy profile of the leader and the followers. The followers’ (symmetric) policy is a best response to the leader’s equilibrium policy, given the mean-field state evolution process. Finally, the leader’s policy is optimum given that followers play the best response. As a result, in order to compute an SMFE, one needs to solve a coupled fixed-point equation in the space of mean-field states and the equilibrium policies of the leader and the followers. In principle, one can solve this fixed-point equation across time for the whole game; however, the resulting complexity will increase double exponentially with time. In this paper, we present an algorithm which can equivalently solve for smaller fixed-point equations for each time t. This algorithm is equivalent to the master equation of continuous-time mean field games [25] that allows one to compute all mean field equilibria (MFE) of the game sequentially.

Our algorithm is motivated by the developments in the theory of dynamic games with asymmetric information in [26]–[32], where authors in these works have considered different models of such games and provided a sequential decomposition framework to compute Markovian perfect Bayesian equilibria and Markov perfect Stackelberg equilibria of such games. A special case with a single leader was studied in [32].

The paper is structured as follows. In Section II, we present the model, our notation and background. In Section III, we present the notion of a Stackelberg Mean Field Equilibrium (SMFE) and the common information approach. In Section IV, we present our main results, where we present an algorithm to compute a SMFE for the finite horizon game. We conclude in Section VIII. All proofs are presented in Appendix.
