Algorithm 1 Data-driven COORP with Adaptive Observer   
1: $i \leftarrow 1$ 2: repeat
3: Compute the estimation $\hat{E}_{i}$ from (6)-(11). $E_{i} \leftarrow \hat{E}_{i}$ .
4: Choose $K_{i,0}$ such that $A_{i} - B_{i}K_{i,0}$ is a Hurwitz matrix, and a small constant $\varepsilon_{i} > 0$ .
5: Apply an essentially bounded control input $u_{i,0} = -K_{i,0}x_{i} + \zeta_{i}$ where $\zeta_{i}$ is the exploration noise, over a time interval $[t_{0}, t_{s}]$ . $j \leftarrow 0$ .
6: repeat
7: Compute $\Gamma_{\bar{x}_{ij}\bar{x}_{ij}}$ , $\Gamma_{\bar{x}_{ij}u_{i}}$ , $\Gamma_{\bar{x}_{ij}v}$ , $\delta_{\bar{x}_{ij}\bar{x}_{ij}}$ such that (26) holds. $j \leftarrow j + 1$ .
8: until $j = h_{i} + 2$ 9: $j \leftarrow 1$ , $k \leftarrow 0$ 10: repeat
11: Solve $P_{i,k}$ and $K_{i,k+1}$ from (25). $k \leftarrow k + 1$ .
12: until $|P_{i,k} - P_{i,k-1}| < \varepsilon_{i}$ .
13: $k \leftarrow k^{\star}, j \leftarrow 1$ 14: repeat
15: Solve $S_{i}(X_{ij})$ from (25). $j \leftarrow j + 1$ .
16: until $j = h_{i} + 2$ 17: Solve $(X_{i}^{\star}, U_{i}^{\star})$ from Problem 1.
18: $L_{i,k^{\star}} \leftarrow U_{i}^{\star} + K_{i,k^{\star}} X_{i}^{\star}$ 19: Compute the approximated optimal control policy $u_{i,k^{\star}} = u^{\star}(K_{i,k^{\star}}, L_{i,k^{\star}})$ from (18). $i \leftarrow i + 1$ .
20: until $i = N + 1$

where $\mathcal { Q } _ { i } = \hat { X } _ { i } \big ( \mathbb { A } _ { m } - \hat { E } _ { i } \big ) \epsilon _ { i }$ . Therefore, with the existence of the estimate of $v ,$ x˜ remains bounded. In addition, on the basis of [22], we have lim $\epsilon _ { i } = 0$ and lim $\tilde { \eta } _ { i } = 0 \forall i \in \mathcal { F }$ . Hence, it is concluded t→∞ t→∞ that $\operatorname* { l i m } { \tilde { x } } _ { i } ^ { \sim } = 0$ and $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { \mathbf { \lambda } } \vec { e } _ { i } = 0 .$ The proof is thus completed.

Theorem 2: If the rank condition in (26) is satisfied, then for $1 , { \dot { 2 } } , \dots , q / 2 ,$ nstan and $k ^ { \star } \in \mathbb { Z } _ { + }$ $c > 0$ there exist constants  such that the seque $\kappa _ { r } ~ > ~ 0 , ~ r ~ =$ $\{ P _ { i , k } \} _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty }$ and $\{ K _ { i , k } \} _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty }$ learned from Algorithm 1 satisfy the inequalities $| P _ { i } ^ { ( k ^ { \star } ) } - \hat { P } _ { i } ^ { \star } | < c$ and $| K _ { i } ^ { ( k ^ { \star } ) } - K _ { i } ^ { \star } | < c ,$ respectively.
