# 1 Introduction

In the field of controlling dynamical systems, one of the major missions is to find efficient control policies for stabilizing ordinary differential equations (ODEs) to targeted equilibriums. The policies for stabilizing linear or polynomial dynamical systems have been fully developed using the standard Lyapunov stability theory, e.g., the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) Khalil (2002) and the sumof-squares (SOS) polynomials through the semi-definite planning (SDP) Parrilo (2000). As for stabilizing more general and nonlinear dynamical systems, linearization technique around the targeted states is often utilized and thus the existing control policies are effective in the vicinity of the targeted states (Sastry & Isidori, 1989) but likely lose efficacy in the region far away from those states. Moreover, in real applications, the explicit forms of the controlled nonlinear systems are often partially or completely unknown, so it is very difficult to directly design controllers only using the Lyapunov stability theory. To overcome these difficulties, designing the controllers via training neural networks (NNs) become one of the mainstream approaches in the community of cybernetics (Polycarpou, 1996). Recent outstanding developments using NNs include enlarging the safe region (Richards et al., 2018), learning the stable dynamics (Takeishi & Kawahara, 2021), and constructing the Lyapunov function and the control function simultaneously (Chang et al., 2019). In Kolter & Manek (2019) a projected NN has been constructed to directely learn a stable dynamical system and fits the observed time series data well, but it did not focus on learning a control policy to stabilize the original dynamics. All these existing developments are formulated only for deterministic systems but inapplicable directly to the dynamical systems described by stochastic differential equations (SDEs), requiring us to include the stochasticity appropriately into the use of neural controls to different types of dynamical systems.
