This proposed algorithm is then implemented on the nonlinear dynamical systems. Firstly, it is implemented in an Inverted Pendulum system. Inverted pendulum is one of the most studied problems in control engineering as well as one of the most complicated dynamical systems [18-19]. Non-Linear inverted pendulum is considered in this paper. Essentially, the system consists of a cart and a pendulum attached to it (Figure 1). The pendulum is balanced upwards by applying a force to the cart thus moving it forward or backward to attain the equilibrium position. Modeling the dynamics of the inverted pendulum yields a highly nonlinear problem. Because of it, system imprecision may come into effect from actual uncertainty in the plant or from a simplified mathematical representation of the plant model dynamics. The aim is to swing-up and stabilize the pendulum from the lower equilibrium position to its upright equilibrium position. Secondly conical tank model is taken into consideration which is a nonlinear TITO system. Controlling the conical tank is a challenging problem because of its nonlinearity and constantly changing area of cross section [77-79]. These systems find their applications in process industries extensively. Its shape, besides giving it a nonlinear nature, is ideal for better drainage in applications. Thirdly van-der pol’s is considered as a classical nonlinear equation to prove the proposed algorithm [76]. The paper has been directed towards tracking and stabilization of all the nonlinear systems using the proposed MPSO PID type sliding surface based sliding mode control technique.

This paper has been organized as follows: Section 2 introduces about PID-type sliding surface based sliding mode control. Section 3 describes about modified particle swarm optimization (MPSO). Section 4 details the control law design, with the stability proved in section 5. Section 6 describes the mathematical model of all three nonlinear systems i.e. Inverted Pendulum, Conical tank and van-der pol’s equation with simulation results, with conclusion in Section 7.
