# 1 Introduction

In some industrial applications, it is necessary to move a large and heavy payload, such as a vehicle chases, by two or more manipulators to share the load and also to gain stiffness. Cooperative multi-robot systems form a closed kinematic chain by each robot end-effector grasping a location on the object [1, 2]. This configuration literally combines the cooperative serial robots into a single redundant parallel mechanism with a high structural stiffness and large lifting capacity. However, when cooperative manipulators pick up objects of different dimensions, i.e., uncertain orientation and length at griping points, the overall kinematics of the interconnected robotic system changes and therefore the kinematic model is required to be updated unless the relative position/orientation of the manipulators are precisely known. However, to calibrate the relative kinematic parameters of the manipulators requires precision endpoint or camera-based measurement systems [3]. This work proposes a self-tuning control of cooperative manipulators to track a motion trajectory, without knowing the true kinematic parameters, and at the same time identify the parameters.

The underlying control issue of how to synchronously move the involved end-effectors of a cooperative manipulator system to track a predefined motion trajectory and at the same time regulate the internal forces has been the focus of many research works [4–13]. However, one of the remaining problem in synchronous control of cooperative manipulators is the sensitivity of the interconnected robotic system to the uncertainties of the closed-kinematic loop. Even small kinematic errors can give rise to significant control error and/or actuation force unless an impedance control or force feedback is used to relieve the build-up internal forces. Although the forward kinematics of commercial manipulators are usually known, the relative position/orientation of manipulators which are set up to perform cooperative manipulation tasks may not be precisely known. That introduces modeling uncertainty in the overall closed kinematic chain and therefore precise and effective cooperative control of the manipulators may require closed-loop kinematic calibration of one sort or another.
