# 4. Passivity Enforcement

The close connection between passive and pH controllers (see Theorem 1 below) permits the computation of a pH controller by means of an alternative indirect approach: first a general controller is computed using either of the established fixed-order $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis methods HIFOO or hinfstruct and then, in a post-processing step, a passivity-check determines, whether the controller is already passive and can be directly transformed to pH form or if another passivity enforcement step must first be applied. This post-processing approach is typically applied successfully in passivity-based system identification; see e. g. Gustavsen and Semlyen (2001); Grivet-Talocia (2004); Oliveira et al. (2016).

If a controller K is passive, then its transfer function K is positive real as in the following definition.

Definition 2. A proper real-rational transfer function K is called positive real, if (i) all poles of K have non-positive real part, (ii) the matrix-valued Popov function $\Phi ( s ) : = { \bf \underline { { { \sigma } } } }$ $\begin{array} { r } { K ( - s ) ^ { \mathsf { T } } + K ( s ) } \end{array}$ attains positive semi-definite values for all $s \in \operatorname { i } \mathbb { R }$ , which are not poles of K, and (iii) for any purely imaginary pole iω of K we have that the residue matrix lim $( s - \mathrm { i } \omega ) K ( s )$ is positive semi-definite. s→iω

The equivalences between passivity, positive-real transfer functions, and a possible pH formulation are summarized in the following theorem. A proof can be found in Beattie et al. (2018).

Theorem 1. Assume that a controller K of order k is minimal and Lyapunov stable. Then the following statements are equivalent:

(i) K is passive.   
(ii) The controller transfer function K is positive real as defined in Definition 2.   
(iii) K can be written as pH controller.   
(iv) There exists a symmetric positive definite matrix X $\in \mathbb { R } ^ { k \times k }$ satisfying the Kalman-Yakubovich-Popov (KYP) inequality

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - A _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} X - X A _ {\mathbf {K}} & C _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} - X B _ {\mathbf {K}} \\ C _ {\mathbf {K}} - B _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} X & D _ {\mathbf {K}} + D _ {\mathbf {K}} ^ {\mathsf {T}} \end{array} \right] \succeq 0.
$$
