Quadratic V Function. For any $\pmb { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d } .$ , let $V _ { \pmb \theta } \in \mathbb R ^ { d }$ be a multilayered feedforward NN of the input x and with tanh( ) as the activation functions, where θ is the parameter vector. To meet the condition used in Definition 2.1, we cannot use the ReLU, a non-smooth function, as the activation function. Hence, we use the candidate Lyapunov function as:

$$V (\boldsymbol {x}) = \boldsymbol {x} ^ {\top} \left[ \varepsilon I + V _ {\boldsymbol {\theta}} (\boldsymbol {x}) ^ {\top} V _ {\boldsymbol {\theta}} (\boldsymbol {x}) \right] \boldsymbol {x}, \tag {8}$$

which was introduced in Gallieri et al. (2019). Here, ε is a small positive constant.

Control Function. We introduce a multi-layer feedforward NN (FNN), denoted by $\mathbf { N N } ( \pmb { x } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { r }$ , to design the controller u. Since we require ${ \pmb u } ( { \bf 0 } ) = { \bf 0 }$ , we set ${ \pmb u } ( { \pmb x } ) \triangleq  { \mathbf { N } }  { \mathbf { N } } (  { \pmb x } ) -  { \mathbf { N } }  { \mathbf { N } } (  { \pmb 0 } )$ or $\mathbf { \delta u } ( \mathbf { x } ) \triangleq \operatorname { d i a g } ( \mathbf { \delta x } ) \mathbf { N N } ( \mathbf { \delta x } )$ with $r \ = \ d .$ . Here, diag(x) is a diagonal matrix with its i-th diagonal element as xi.

Remark 3.1 As reported in Chang et al. (2019), a single-layer NN without the bias constants in its arguments, which degenerates as linear control, could sufficiently take effect in the stabilization of many deterministic systems. However, this is NOT always the case for achieving the stabilization of highly nonlinear systems or even SDEs. The following proposition with Figure 3 provides an example, where neither the classic linear controller nor the stochastic linear controller can stabilize the unstable equilibrium in a particular SDE. The proof of this proposition is included in Appendix ??.

Proposition 3.2 Consider the following 1-D SDE:

$$\mathrm{d} x (t) = x (t) \log | x (t) | \mathrm{d} t + u (x (t)) \mathrm{d} B _ {t}, \tag {9}$$

with a zero solution $x ^ { * } = 0 .$ . Then, for $u ( x ) = k x$ with any k and $x _ { 0 } \neq 0 , x ^ { * } = 0$ is neither exponentially stable nor of globally asymptotic attractiveness almost surely. For $u ( x ) = 2 x ^ { 2 } , x ^ { * } = 0$ is of globally asymptotic attractiveness. For $u ( x ) \equiv 0$ , the deterministic system cannot be stabilized by any classic linear controller.
