# 2.1 On-line Parameter Estimation

Fig.1 illustrates two cooperative manipulators carrying a common object. Coordinate frames $\{ \mathcal { A } _ { i } \}$ and $\{ B _ { i } \}$ are attached to the base and end-effector of the ith manipulator, respectively. Here, we make the following fundamental assumptions on the kinematics model of the inter-

connected robotic system

i. The relative position/orientation of the end-effectors grasping on to the object, i.e., $\{ \mathcal { A } _ { 1 } \}$ w.r.t. $\{ \mathcal { A } _ { 2 } \}$ , are not precisely known.   
ii. The relative position/orientation of the manipulators’ bases, i.e., $\{ B _ { 1 } \}$ w.r.t. $\{ B _ { 2 } \}$ , are not precisely known.

However, all manipulators forward kinematics are supposed to be known. Assume that $v _ { j }$ and $\omega _ { j }$ be the linear and angular velocities of the jth robot’s end-effector expressed in the tool frame $\{ { \mathcal { A } } _ { j } \}$ . Notice that $\omega _ { 1 }$ and $\omega _ { 2 }$ are the same vector expressed in different coordinate frames. The end-effector velocities can be obtained from the kinematics model of the manipulators and the measurements of the manipulators’ joint angles and joint velocities as:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} \boldsymbol {v} _ {j} \\ \boldsymbol {\omega} _ {j} \end{array} \right] = \boldsymbol {J} _ {j} (\boldsymbol {q} _ {j}) \dot {\boldsymbol {q}} _ {j} \quad j = 1, 2. \tag {1}
$$

where $J _ { j }$ is the Jacobian matrix of the jth manipulator expressed in the tool frame1 $\{ { \mathcal { A } } _ { j } \}$ and $\mathbf { \Delta } \mathbf { q } _ { j }$ represent the joint angles of the corresponding manipulator. Also assume that the position and orientation of the end-effectors grasping the object are represented by vector $\rho ,$ which is expressed in $\{ \mathcal { A } _ { 2 } \}$ , and rotation matrix $A ,$ which represents the orientation of coordinate frame $\left\{ \mathcal { A } _ { 2 } \right\}$ w.r.t. $\{ A _ { 1 } \}$ . The orientation can be also represented by the unit quaternion $\eta .$ , which is related to the rotation matrix by

$$\boldsymbol {A} (\boldsymbol {\eta}) = (2 \eta_ {o} ^ {2} - 1) \boldsymbol {I} + 2 \eta_ {o} [ \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {v} \times ] + 2 \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {v} \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {v} ^ {T}. \tag {2}$$
