where $\beta \geq 0$ is an adjustable weight to penalize travel time relative to the energy cost. Note that the solution is decentralized in the sense that CAV i requires information only from CAVs $i _ { p }$ and $i _ { c }$ required in (3) and (4).

Problem (8) subject to (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6) can be analytically solved in some cases, e.g., the merging problem in Fig. 1 [15] and a signal-free intersection [16]. However, obtaining solutions for real-time applications becomes prohibitive when an optimal trajectory involves multiple constraints becoming active. This has motivated an approach which combines a solution of the unconstrained problem (8), which can be obtained very fast, with the use of Control Barrier Functions (CBFs) which provide guarantees that (3), (4), (5) and (6) are always satisfied through constraints that are linear in the control, thus rendering solutions to this alternative problem obtainable by solving a sequence of computationally efficient QPs. This approach is termed Optimal Control with Control Barrier Functions (OCBF) [22].

The OCBF approach. The OCBF approach consists of three steps: (i ) the solution of the unconstrained optimal control problem (8) is used as a reference control, (i i ) the resulting control reference trajectory is optimally tracked subject to the constraint (6), as well as a set of CBF constraints enforcing (3), (4) and (5). (i i i ) This optimal tracking problem is efficiently solved by discretizing time and solving a simple QP at each discrete time step. The significance of CBFs in this approach is twofold: first, their forward invariance property [22] guarantees that all constraints they enforce are satisfied at all times if they are initially satisfied; second, CBFs impose linear constraints on the control which is what enables the efficient solution of the tracking problem through the sequence of QPs in (i i i ) above.
