# 2 Preliminaries

To begin with, we consider the SDE which is written in a general form as:

$$\mathrm{d} \boldsymbol {x} (t) = F (\boldsymbol {x} (t)) \mathrm{d} t + G (\boldsymbol {x} (t)) \mathrm{d} B _ {t}, t \geq 0, \boldsymbol {x} (0) = \boldsymbol {x} _ {0} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {d}, \tag {1}$$

where $F : \mathbb { R } ^ { d }  \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ is the drift function, and $G : \mathbb { R } ^ { d }  \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times r }$ is the diffusion function with $\mathbb { R } ^ { d \times r }$ , a space of $d \times r$ matrices with real entries, and $B _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { r }$ , a r-dimensional $\left( r { - } \mathbf { D } \right)$ Brownian motion. Without loss of generality, we set $F ( \mathbf { 0 } ) = \mathbf { 0 }$ and $G ( \mathbf { 0 } ) = \mathbf { 0 }$ so that $\mathbf { { x } } _ { 0 } = \mathbf { { 0 } }$ is a zero solution Eq. (1).

Notations. Denote by $\| \cdot \|$ the $L ^ { 2 } .$ -norm for any given vector in $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ . Denote by | · | the absolute value of a scalar number or the modulus length of a complex number number. For $A = \left( a _ { i j } \right)$ , a matrix of dimension $d \times r ,$ denote by $\begin{array} { r } { \| A \| _ { \mathrm { F } } ^ { 2 } = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { d } \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { r } a _ { i j } ^ { 2 } } \end{array}$ the Frobenius norm.

Assumption 2.1 (Locally Lipschitzian Continuity) For every integer $n \geq 1$ , there is a number $K _ { n } > 0$ such that

$$\| F (\boldsymbol {x}) - F (\boldsymbol {y}) \| \leq K _ {n} \| \boldsymbol {x} - \boldsymbol {y} \|, \| G (\boldsymbol {x}) - G (\boldsymbol {y}) \| _ {\mathrm{F}} \leq K _ {n} \| \boldsymbol {x} - \boldsymbol {y} \|,$$

for any x, $\pmb { y } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ with $\| { \pmb x } \| \vee \| { \pmb y } \| \le n .$ .

Definition 2.1 (Derivative Operator) Define the differential operator L associated with Eq. (1) by

$$\mathcal {L} \triangleq \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} F _ {i} (\boldsymbol {x}) \frac {\partial}{\partial x _ {i}} + \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {i, j = 1} ^ {d} \left[ G (\boldsymbol {x}) G ^ {\top} (\boldsymbol {x}) \right] _ {i j} \frac {\partial^ {2}}{\partial x _ {i} \partial x _ {j}}.$$

Definition 2.2 (Exponential Stability) The zero solution of $E q . ( 1 )$ is said to be almost surely exponentially stable, if lim supt→∞ 1t log kx(t; x0)k < 0 a.s. for all $\pmb { x } _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ . Here and throughout, a.s. stands for the abbreviation of almost surely.

Then, the following Lyapunov stability theorem will be used in the establishment of our main results.
