# II. PID SLIDING MODE CONTROL

Variable structure control law is discontinuous in nature as it switches from on continuous structure to another respective to the evolution of the state vector, confining the system dynamics according to the applied feedback controller as well as to the switching strategy. This multiple control structure acts like a parallel connection of several different continuous subsystems, acting one at a time. By considering the nonlinear dynamic system

$$\dot {x} = f (x, t, u) + g (x, t). u (t) \quad x \in \mathcal {R} ^ {n}, u \in \mathcal {R} ^ {m}. \tag {1}$$

subjected to discontinuous feedback

$$
u _ {i} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} u _ {i} + (x, t) & i f s _ {i} (x, t) > 0 \\ u _ {i} - (x, t) & i f s _ {i} (x, t) <   0 \end{array} \right. \tag {2}
$$

Sliding mode control is a fundamental property of Variable structure system (VSS) as it exhibit a particular behavior characterized by the commutation between various system structures taking place at infinite frequency. Sliding mode control alters the dynamics of a nonlinear system by applying a multiple feedback control structure acting on the opposite sides of a predetermined surface in the system state space. Each of the controllers is designed so as to ensure that the representative trajectory is pushed towards the surface, so that it approaches the surface and once it hits the surface for the first time, it stays on it afterwards. The resulting motion of the system is restricted to the surface which is interpreted as ‘sliding’ of the system along the surface. This motion of the system as it slides along the manifold is called sliding mode and the geometrical locus is called sliding surface. Sliding surface is defined as

$$S (x, t) = (\frac {d}{d t} + \lambda) ^ {(n - 1)}. e \tag {3}$$

Sliding surface is described by $s = 0$ and the sliding mode commences after a finite time when the system trajectories reached the surface. Sliding mode is characterized by a very high robustness feature and is insensitive to model uncertainties and disturbances. A single input nonlinear systems second order equation is represented as:

$$\ddot {\theta} = f (\theta , \dot {\theta}, t) + g (\theta , t). u (t) + d (t) \tag {4}$$

where, $f ( \theta , { \dot { \theta } } , t )$ ?????? $g ( \dot { \theta } , t )$ are known nonlinear functions, embodying plant parameters, model uncertainties and unmodelled dynamics.
