Walker et al. proposed an adaptive cooperative control scheme for manipulators carrying an object with unknown parameters. Adaptive control of cooperative manipulators with an uncertain dynamic model to achieve asymptotic convergence of both position tracking errors and force tracking errors was presented in [25]. Robust adaptive motion control of multiple robots in the face of bounded disturbance was addressed in [26]. A decentralized adaptive control scheme where each robot is controlled separately by its own local controller is presented in [28]. The adaptive coordinated control of multiple robots transporting an object where all dynamics parameters of the robots and object are unknown constants is further developed in [30]. Adaptive hybrid force/motion control of cooperative manipulators interacting with unknown environment is proposed in [15, 33]. Although these adaptive cooperated control schemes can deal with modeling uncertainties in dynamics of the robots and object, the kinematics of interconnected robotic system is assumed to be exactly known. On the other hand, experiments have shown that even small kinematic inaccuracy, due to tolerance and geometric uncertainties, can significantly deteriorate the tracking performance. This work is motivated by development of a self-tuning adaptive control of cooperative manipulators that can deal with the kinematic inaccuracy of the interconnected robotic system. The main advantage of the cooperative control approach is that it does not use force measurements to accommodate the position/oritntation errors between the cooperative manipulators. Rather the controller is able to tune itself adaptively by identifying the parameters contributing to the errors. Moreover, since no external positioning device is required, such as a high precision camera system, the control approach is advantageous for calibrating the relative pose of cooperative manipulators. However, it should be pointed out that the control method works only if the common object is a rigid-body and that the stability can be ensured upon certain conditions. The contributions of the this work are the development of an estimator for the kinematic parameters and rigorous analysis of the entire estimator/control system leading to derivation of the stability conditions.
