As the authors know, there is no direct way to solve this problem. Thus we use the ICLOCS2 [18] to brute force search the switching time τ and switching states, and regard the hybrid system into two systems. In this way, each sub-problem is an optimal control for a continuous system with some known boundary conditions. This indirect use of ICLOCS2 toolbox is very time-consuming. Think of a second-order system with a switching interface $x _ { 1 } + x _ { 2 } = 0 .$ We need to use two for-loops to search the switching time τ and switching state $x _ { 1 } ( \tau )$ . In [13], the authors proposed an efficient gradient-descent-based algorithm named HMPMAS for solving hybrid switching systems, which is proven much more efficient than the algorithm in [14]. We compare our algorithm with the algorithm in [13] on three different systems (one time-varying system with a time-varying switching interface, two are from the paper [13]). Given a problem, we compare the time required by different algorithms to generate a solution with the same level of numerical precision. All the computations are performed using MATLAB 2020b on a personal computer with i7-8665U CPU and 16GB RAM. Each experiment is run 5 times and the average CPU time is reported for responsible comparison.

1) Example 1: In this example, we use our algorithm to solve a one-order system with a time-varying switching interface. $x _ { 0 } = 0 , x _ { f } = 2 , g ( x , t ) = x + t - 1 = 0 , t _ { f } = 2 .$ . The system dynamics is

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} = t x + u, \quad x + t \leq 1 \\ \dot {x} = u, \quad x + t \geq 1 \end{array} \right.,
$$

while the stage cost

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} L = \frac {1}{2} (x ^ {2} + u ^ {2}), & x + t \leq 1 \\ L = \frac {1}{8} (x ^ {2} + u ^ {2}), & x + t \geq 1 \end{array} \right.. \tag {39}
$$
