When the trajectory intersects the sliding manifold, the value of the state trajectory remains within a neighborhood encapsulated in a boundary (Slotine and Li, 1991).
This existence requires stability of the trajectory on the neighborhood of the sliding manifold i.e.
the trajectory must approach the surface at least asymptotically [45].
The motion along the sliding surface $s = 0$ is represented by the phase trajectories and this phase trajectory consists of two modes of the system i.e.
reaching phase and sliding phase.
While the former denotes the mode in which trajectory, starting from anywhere on the phase plane moves towards the switching manifold and reaches it in finite time and the latter denotes the sliding phase in which the trajectory asymptotically tends to the origin in the region of attraction.
Note that the system’s robustness is not guaranteed until the sliding mode is reached [43-44].
Designing a sliding mode controller is done by the introduction of a sliding surface so that the tracking error and output deviations converges to zero in finite time.
Sliding manifold ??
= 0 represents the transient response of the system during sliding mode and the system dynamics is totally governed by the parameters denoting ‘??’.
Sliding mode trajectory also requires an infinitely fast switching mechanism to guarantee the desired sliding behavior.
However, Traditional first order sliding mode control has some disadvantages such as chattering effect, limited flexibility with the surface function and constant gain as the error variable.
Most fatal one for practical implementation in engineering field is the “chattering” phenomenon, caused due to the ‘sign’ term in the switching function and it causes the control input to start oscillating around the sliding surface, because of the infinite switching resulting in an unwanted wear and tear.
Chattering is caused by switching nonidealities, which exist in the implementation of switching devices and by parasitic dynamics i.e.
unmodelled or fast dynamics.
If switching gain is large, chattering may cause unpredictable instability.
To solve this problem, various approaches have been proposed.
Firstly, by using continuous approximations of the discontinuous sign function by smoothening the switching term as the sliding surface reaches zero [58].
