Note that $\mathcal { R } _ { i } ( t )$ in general can change over time, i.e., $i _ { c } ( t )$ changes when dynamic “resequencing” (discussed in [28]) is carried out and $i _ { p } ( t )$ changes in the case of lane changing maneuvers. It is worth mentioning that in the single lane merging example in Fig. 1 $i _ { p }$ cannot change.

A common way to solve this dynamic optimization problem is to discretize $[ t _ { i } ^ { 0 } , t _ { i } ^ { f } ]$ into intervals $[ t _ { i } ^ { 0 } , t _ { i } ^ { 0 } +$ $\Delta ) , . . . , [ t _ { i } ^ { 0 } + k \Delta , t _ { i } ^ { 0 } + ( k + 1 ) \Delta ) , . .$ .. with equal length ∆ and solving (21) over each time interval. The decision variables $u _ { i , k } = u _ { i } ( t _ { i , k } )$ and $e _ { i , k } = e _ { i } ( t _ { i , k } )$ are assumed to be constant on each interval and can be easily calculated at time $t _ { i , k } = t _ { i } ^ { 0 } + k \Delta$ through solving a QP at each time step:

$$\min _ {u _ {i, k}, e _ {i, k}} [ \frac {1}{2} (u _ {i, k} - u _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{ref}} (t _ {i, k})) ^ {2} + \lambda e _ {i, k} ^ {2} ], \tag {23}$$

subject to the CBF constraints (11), (15), (18), (19), and control input bounds (6) and CLF constraint (20) where all constraints are linear in the decision variables. We refer to this as the time-driven approach, which is fast and can be readily used in real time.

The main problem with this approach is that a QP may become infeasible at any time instant because the decision variable $u _ { i , k }$ is held constant over a given time period ∆. Since this is externally defined, there is no guarantee that it is small enough to ensure the forward invariance property of a CBF, thereby also failing to ensure the satisfaction of the safety constraints. In other words, in this time-driven approach, there is a critical (and often restrictive) assumption that the control update rate is high enough to avoid such a problem. There are several additional issues worth mentioning: (i ) imposing a high update rate makes the solution of multiple QPs inefficient since it increases the computational burden, (i i ) using a common update rate across all CAVs renders their synchronization difficult, and (i i i ) the predictability of a time-driven communication mechanism across CAVs makes the whole system susceptible to malicious attacks. As we will show next, the two event-driven solutions proposed in this paper alleviate these problems by eliminating the need to select a time step ∆.
