$$\gamma^ {\prime} := \frac {\tilde {\gamma}}{\tilde {\gamma} [ X \times Y ]}$$

is an optimal coupling between its marginals.

Moreover, $i f \gamma$ is a unique optimal coupling between $\mu$ and $\nu ,$ then $\gamma ^ { \prime }$ is a unique optimal coupling between its marginals.

Theorem 1 can be understood as saying that if there is an inefficiency in a small part of the optimal coupling (represented by ˜γ), then the larger plan $\gamma$ cannot be optimal and efficient. The proof, as given in [33], follows this line of reasoning. Theorem 1 is used to prove the Theorem 2, the Kantorovich Duality Theorem. The Kantorovich Duality Theorem establishes the structure of optimality, which is that the support must be c-cyclically monotone. Additionally, it is a model for Corollary 1, which depends on Theorem 1 via Theorem 2 (Kantorovich Duality Theorem).

Definition 1. $( / 3 0 , P g . \ 2 8 ] . )$ Let X and Y be arbitrary sets and c : $X \times Y \mapsto ( - \infty , \infty )$ be a function. A subset $\Gamma \subset X \times Y$ is said to be c-cyclically monotone, or c-CM, if for any $N \in \mathbb { N }$ , permutation σ, and family of points $( x _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } ) , \dotsc , ( x _ { n } , y _ { n } )$ in Γ, we have

$$\sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} c (x _ {i}, y _ {i}) \leq \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} c (x _ {i}, y _ {\sigma (i)}). \tag {2}$$

This notion is important because when the support of a coupling is c-cyclically monotone (henceforth referred to as $c { \mathrm { - C M } } )$ , then it is optimal. This relates to Theorem 1 because if there were a collection of points in the support that were not $c { \mathrm { - C M } } .$ then we could form a non-optimal measure via restriction. The Kantorovich Duality Theorem, [33, Pg. 70], is a standard result of the field, establishes the relationship between optimality and c-cyclic monotonicity as well as many other structural properties of optimal transport. For our purposes, we focus on the equivalence between having c-CM support and optimality.

Theorem 2. (Kantorovich Duality $[ 3 3 , { \mathrm { P g . ~ } } 7 0 ] . \ $ ) Let $( X , \mu )$ and $( Y , \nu )$ be two Polish probability spaces and let $c : X \times Y \mapsto \mathbb { R } \cup \{ \infty \}$ be a semi-continuous cost function, such that

$$\forall (x, y) \in X \times Y, c (x, y) \geq a (x) + b (y)$$
