The traditional robustness of CaTL+ is also sound (Proposition 1). It is easy to prove that the traditional robustness is continuous everywhere and differentiable almost everywhere. The most important advantage of the exponential robustness over traditional robustness is that it eliminates masking. In short, the traditional robustness only takes into account the minimum robustness in conjunction and the $m ^ { t h }$ largest robustness in a task. All the other subformulas and individual trajectories have no contribution to the overall robustness. For example, consider formula $\mathbf { F } _ { [ 0 , 5 ] } ( s > 3 )$ . Two trajectories 1, 1, 1, 1, 5 and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 get the same traditional robustness score of 2, though it is obvious that the later is more robust under disturbances. Similarly, for a task $\langle \varphi , c , 3 \rangle$ , 3 agents satisfying $\varphi$ and 4 agents satisfying $\varphi$ to the same extent obtain same traditional robustness, but the later is more robust to agent attrition. The exponential robustness addresses this masking problem by taking into account the robustness for all subformulas, all time points, and all agents. As a result, the exponential robustness rewards the trajectories that satisfy the requirements at more time steps and with more agents. From an optimization point of view, our goal is to synthesize controls that maximize the CaTL+ robustness. If we use the traditional robustness, at each optimization step we can only modify the most satisfying or violating points. This may decelerate the optimization speed or even result in divergence. The exponential robustness makes the robustness-based control synthesis easier, and makes the results more robust. Formally, we have:

Definition 5. [mask-eliminating] The robustness of an operator $\mathcal { O } ( \rho _ { 1 } , \dots , \rho _ { M } )$ has the mask-eliminating property if it is differentiable almost everywhere, and wherever it is differentiable, it satisfies:

$$\frac {\partial \mathcal {O} (\rho_ {1} , \dots , \rho_ {M})}{\partial \rho_ {i}} > 0, \quad \forall i = 1, \dots , M, \tag {14}$$

A robustness metric of CaTL+ has the mask-eliminating property if both conjunction and task satisfy (14).

Proposition 4. Exponential robustness of CaTL+ has the mask-eliminating property.
