[22] H.
J.
van Waarde, C.
De Persis, M.
K.
Camlibel, and P.
Tesi, “Willems’ fundamental lemma for state-space systems and its extension to multiple datasets,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
4, no.
3, pp.
602–607, 2020.
[23] T.
Gr¨aber, S.
Lupberger, M.
Unterreiner, and D.
Schramm, “A hybrid approach to side-slip angle estimation with recurrent neural networks and kinematic vehicle models,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol.
4, no.
1, pp.
39–47, 2019.
[24] S.
F.
G.
Ehlers, Z.
Ziaukas, J.-P.
Kobler, and H.-G.
Jacob, “State and parameter estimation in a semitrailer for different loading conditions only based on trailer signals,” in 2022 American Control Conference (ACC), 2022, pp.
2353–2360.
[25] P.
Van Overschee and B.
De Moor, Subspace identification for linear systems: Theory—Implementation—Applications.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1997.
[26] M.
A.
M ¨uller, “Nonlinear moving horizon estimation in the presence of bounded disturbances,” Automatica, vol.
79, pp.
306–314, 2017.
[27] D.
A.
Allan and J.
B.
Rawlings, “Moving horizon estimation,” in Handbook of Model Predictive Control, S.
V.
Rakovi´c and W.
S.
Levine, Eds.
Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2019, pp.
99–124.
[28] S.
Kn ¨ufer and M.
A.
M ¨uller, “Robust global exponential stability for moving horizon estimation,” in 2018 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2018, pp.
3477–3482.
[29] S.
Kn ¨ufer and M.
A.
M ¨uller, “Nonlinear full information and moving horizon estimation: Robust global asymptotic stability,” Automatica, vol.
150, p.
110603, 2023.
[30] J.
D.
Schiller and M.
A.
M ¨uller, “Suboptimal nonlinear moving horizon estimation,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
4, pp.
2199–2214, 2022.
[31] J.
Coulson, J.
Lygeros, and F.
D ¨orfler, “Regularized and distributionally robust data-enabled predictive control,” in 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
2696–2701.
[32] S.
Kn ¨ufer and M.
A.
M ¨uller, “Time-discounted incremental input/outputto-state stability,” in 2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
5394–5400.
[33] D.
A.
Allan and J.
B.
Rawlings, “Robust stability of full information estimation,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
59, no.
5, pp.
3472–3497, 2021.
[34] A.
Alessandri, M.
Baglietto, and G.
