# III. DECOUPLED DATA BASED CONTROL (D2C) ALGORITHM

In this section, we propose a data-based approach to solve the material phase-separation control problem. In particular, we apply the so-called decoupled data-based control (D2C) algorithm that we recently proposed [10], and extend it for high dimensional applications. The D2C algorithm is a highly data-efficient Reinforcement Learning (RL) method that has shown to be much superior to state of the art RL algorithms such as the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) in terms of data efficiency and training stability while retaining similar or better performance. In the following, we give a very brief introduction to the D2C algorithm (please see [10], [26], [27] for the relevant details).

Let us reconsider the dynamics of the system given in Eq. (1) and (2) and rewrite it in a discrete time, noise perturbed state space form as follows:

$$\Phi_ {t + 1} = f (\Phi_ {t}) + g (\Phi_ {t}) (U _ {t} + \epsilon w _ {t}), \tag {9}$$

where $\Phi _ { t }$ is the state, $U _ { t }$ is the control, $w _ { t }$ is a white noise perturbation to the system, and  is a small parameter that modulates the noise in the system. Suppose now that we have a finite horizon objective function: $J ( \Phi _ { 0 } ) =$ $\begin{array} { r } { E [ \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { T - 1 } c ( \Phi _ { t } , U _ { t } ) + \Psi ( \Phi _ { T } ) ] } \end{array}$ , where $c ( \Phi , u )$ denotes a running incremental cost, $\Psi ( \Phi )$ denotes a terminal cost function and $E [ \cdot ]$ is an expectation operator taken over the sample paths of the system. The objective of the control design is then to design a feedback policy ${ U _ { t } } ( \Phi _ { t } )$ that minimizes the cost function above and is given by $J ^ { * } ( \Phi _ { 0 } ) =$ min $\begin{array} { r } { \mathsf { \Omega } ^ { } \mathsf { \Omega } ^ { } \cup \left[ \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { T - 1 } c ( \Phi _ { t } , U _ { t } ) + \Psi ( \Phi _ { T } ) \right] } \end{array}$ .

The D2C algorithm then proposes a 3 step procedure to approximate the solution to the above problem.

First, a noiseless open-loop optimization problem is solved to find an optimal control sequence, $\hat { U } _ { t } ^ { * }$ , that generates the nominal state trajectory $\bar { \Phi } _ { t } ^ { * }$ :

$$J ^ {*} (\Phi_ {0}) = \min _ {U _ {t}} (\sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} c (\Phi_ {t}, U _ {t}) + \Psi (\Phi_ {T})). \tag {10}$$

subject to the zero noise nominal dynamics: $\Phi _ { t + 1 } = f ( \Phi _ { t } ) +$ $g ( \Phi _ { t } ) U _ { t }$ .

Second, the perturbed time varying linear system around the nominal given by $\delta \Phi _ { t + 1 } = A _ { t } \delta \Phi _ { t } + B _ { t } \delta U _ { t }$ is identified in terms of the time varying system matrices $A _ { t } , B _ { t }$ .

Third, an LQR controller for the above time varying linear system is designed whose time varying gain is given by $K _ { t }$ . Finally, the control applied to the system is given by $U _ { t } ( \Phi _ { t } ) = \bar { U } _ { t } ^ { * } + K _ { t } \delta \Phi _ { t }$ .

The following subsections provide details for each of the above-mentioned steps of the D2C algorithm.
