# A. Motivating Example: Simplified Industrial Control System

Figure 4 shows an example of a simplified industrial control system (ICS) where a robotic arm is controlled by a programmable logic controller (PLC). The PLC receives higher-level setpoint commands from a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) entity, which may consist of humanmachine interfaces, PLC workstations, as well as historians for data logging. The robot arm is composed of two segments that are controlled by stepper motors. In this simplified example, each arm is equipped with an inertial measurement unit (IMU) that is used to close the loop for the arm’s controller. For simplicity, we restrict each arm to move along the X-Y plane. In this case, we assume that the PLC takes a an XY-coordinate setpoint from the SCADA entity and its internal control loop calculates the associated actuation commands necessary to arrive at the desired waypoint for both arm segments.

For this simplified case, we will demonstrate how an attacker may choose a particular attack vector along with the associated parameters. We implemented this industrial control system with a Dobot robotic arm controlled by a Siemens S7 1200 PLC. The robotic arm has a swappable end attachment that can stand in for several example applications, such as 3D printing, laser etching, and a gripper for industrial automation. The PLC controls the arm in a closed feedback loop, reading in sensor data from the arm’s two accelerometers and actuating its stepper motors to control the arm’s movement. For simplicity, we limit the motion of the arm to a two-dimensional plane. We emulate the SCADA components through an API that sends motion commands to the PLC, which calculates the appropriate actuation commands for the arm’s stepper motors. Given this system, we now describe how a defender would model a state estimator to detect anomalies in the sensor data.

ICS defender model design. The typical goal of a defender, e.g., the SCADA entity in this context, is to develop an appropriate state estimator that will detect any anomalies. Theoretically, a perfectly tuned state estimator model for all memory-mapped physical I/O and it’s associated physical covert channels of a CPS would detect any cyber-physical data exfiltration attack[5].
