# 1.2. Contribution

The example above suggests that a deeper inspection of the internal stability property could offer insight into the behavior of diffusively-coupled systems. The internal stability of any feedback interconnection requires the stability of all possible input / output relations in the system, see (Zhou et al., 1996; Skogestad and Postlethwaite, 2005). However, to the best of our knowledge, internal stability has not been explicitly studied in the context of diffusively-coupled architectures of MASs yet.

In this paper we show that diffusively-coupled systems of LTI (linear time-invariant) agents might not be internally stabilizable. Loosely speaking, this happens if the agents share common unstable dynamics, directions counting. This, for example, is always the case in a group of homogeneous unstable agents, like those discussed in §1.1.

When restricting the result to finite-dimensional agents, we also explain the mechanism behind the shown internal instability. It is caused by unstable cancellations in the cascade of the aggregate plant and a diffusive controller. Important is that these cancellations are caused not by controller zeros, but rather by an intrinsic spatial deficiency of the diffusively-coupled configuration. These cancellations are intrinsic to the diffusive structure and cannot be affected by controller dynamics. Consequently, the internal stability of feedback systems utilizing only relative measurements depends solely on the agent dynamics.

In addition to providing a rigorous analysis of the internal stability of diffusively-coupled systems, we show how the analysis is readily applied to common extensions found in the literature. In particular, we discuss more general symmetrically coupled multi-agent systems (i.e. not restricted to only diffusive coupling), asymmetric coupling (i.e. MASs over directed graphs), unstable systems with no closed right-half plane poles, and MASs over time-varying networks. Numerous examples are also provided along the way to illustrate the main results.

The paper is organized as follows. The problem is set up in Section 2 and the main result is presented in Section 3, with several generalizations discussed in §3.2. Section 4 addresses the case of finite-dimensional agents, reformulating the main result in a more transparent form and revealing the underlying reason for the reported behavior. Concluding remarks are provided in Section 5. Two appendices collect definitions and technical results about coprime factorizations over $H _ { \infty }$ and poles and zero directions of multivariable real-rational transfer functions.
