$$\gamma (A \times B) = \int_ {A} K (x, B) d \mu (x), A \in \mathfrak {M}, B \in \mathfrak {N}.$$

When we wish to discuss $\mu K$ as a measure on the joint space $( X \times Y )$ , we will write $\mu \odot K$ to distinguish it from the image measure $\mu K$ on (Y, N). This is meant to be reminiscent of the element-wise multiplication between matrices.

With these properties in place, we are able to usefully talk about the concept of an optimal transport kernel.

Definition 3. A Markov kernel K is an optimal transport kernel for a cost function $c ( x , y )$ if for measures $\mu$ and $\nu : = \mu K$ the product measure $\gamma : = \mu \odot K$ is an optimal coupling between $\mu$ and ν when the transport problem has finite cost.

To ensure that a transport kernel gives rise to a coupling with a finite cost, it is useful to consider cost functions $c ( x , y ) \leq c _ { X } ( x ) + c _ { Y } ( y )$ , as well as to consider transition kernels that are not only Markov kernels, but also $c _ { X }$ -bounded Markov kernels, as defined by

Definition 4. A Markov transition kernel is said to be a cX−bounded kernel if

$$\int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) K (x, d y) < A c _ {X} (x) + B \quad \mathrm{forall} x \in X.$$

When $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } _ { c } ( X )$ and K is a $c _ { X }$ -bounded kernel, then we can be assured that $\mu \odot K$ has finite transport cost and that $\mu K \in { \mathcal { P } } _ { c } ( Y )$ as shown in the following theorem.

Theorem 5. Let $\mu \ \in \ { \mathcal { P } } _ { c } ( X )$ and K be a cX-bounded kernel. Then the product measure $\gamma : = \mu \odot K$ has finite transport cost and $\mu K \in { \mathcal { P } } _ { c } ( Y )$ . If K is additionally an optimal transport kernel, then $\gamma$ is an optimal coupling between $\mu$ and $\mu K$ .

Proof. We show that $\mu \odot K$ has finite cost by definition of cX-bounded.

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mu \odot K (c (x, y)) = \int_ {X} d \mu (x) \int_ {Y} c (x, y) K (x, d y) (7) \\ \leq \int_ {X} d \mu (x) \int_ {Y} c _ {X} (x) + c _ {Y} (y) K (x, d y) (8) \\ = \int_ {X} d \mu (x) c _ {X} (x) + \int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) K (x, d y) (9) \\ <   \int_ {X} (A + 1) c _ {X} (x) + B d \mu (x) <   \infty . (10) \\ \end{array}
$$

The final inequality arises because $\mu$ is in $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( X )$ ). This shows that $\mu \odot K$ is a finite transport plan between $\mu$ and $\mu K$ .

Similarly,

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mu K (c _ {Y} (y)) = \int_ {X} d \mu (x) \int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) K (x, d y) (11) \\ = \int_ {X} d \mu (x) \int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) K (x, d y) (12) \\ <   \int_ {X} A c _ {X} (x) + B d \mu (x) <   \infty , (13) \\ \end{array}
$$
