Now consider the exogenous signals $d _ { u }$ and $d _ { y }$ , which we refer to as disturbances. On the physical level they represent inevitable effects of the outside world on the controlled plant (agents). These signals are supposed to be bounded and independent of the signals generated by the controlled system. We introduce disturbances to define the notion of the internal stability for the system in Fig. 2, which is the focus point of this paper. Specifically, we say that this system is internally stable if the $2 \times 2$ operator connecting exogenous signals $d _ { u }$ and $d _ { y }$ with internal signals 𝑢 and 𝑦, i.e.

$$T _ {4}: (d _ {y}, d _ {u}) \mapsto (y, u) \tag {5}$$

is well defined and stable, see (Georgiou and Smith, 1993, Sec. 4).

The general question of interest in this paper is under what conditions on the agents $P _ { i }$ are there causal edge controllers $K _ { e , j }$ internally stabilizing the diffusively-coupled system in $F i g . 2 2$ Note that the existence of edge controllers rendering the closed-loop operator well defined is obvious, just take $K _ { \mathrm { e } , j } = 0$ for all 𝑗 . We shall thus focus on the stability of $T _ { 4 }$ .

Addressing the stability question in the most general, nonlinear and time-varying, case might be overly technical. We thus limit our attention to the class of LTI plants and edge controllers, whose transfer functions belong to the quotient field of $H _ { \infty } ,$ see (Curtain and Zwart, 2020, §A.7.1), which is a sufficiently general class. We further assume that

$\mathcal { A } _ { 1 } \colon$ there are right coprime $M _ { i } , N _ { i } \in H _ { \infty }$ and left coprime $\tilde { M } _ { i } , \tilde { N } _ { i } \in H _ { \infty }$ such that $P _ { i } = N _ { i } M _ { i } ^ { - 1 } = \tilde { M } _ { i } ^ { - 1 } \tilde { N } _ { i }$ for all 𝑖,
