# 4.2. Optimal Transport Using Markov Kernels

Markov kernels are a well-studied class of transition kernels. In this section we use Markov kernels in a novel way as a tool for optimal transport.

Definition 2. [7, Page 37] Let (X, M) and (Y, N) be measurable spaces and K a mapping from $X \times \mathfrak { N }$ into $[ 0 , \infty ]$ . Then K is called a transition kernel from (X, M) into (Y, N) if:

1. The function $x \mapsto K ( x , B )$ is M-measurable for every subset B in N, and   
2. the mapping $B \mapsto K ( x , B )$ is a measure on (Y, N) for every $x \in X$ .

If in item 2 the measure is a probability measure for all $x \in X$ , then K is called a stochastic kernel or a Markov kernel.

The definition of a kernel tells us that if we fix a measurable set in the space Y , then we have a measurable function on (X, M) and if we fix a point in the space X, then we have a measure on Y . As of yet, this does not provide us the functionality of mapping measures to measures, however it is a simple and standard construction to see that functionality.

Theorem 3. $\left[ 7 , \ P g . \ 3 8 \right]$ Let K be a transition kernel from (X, M) into (Y, N). Then

$$K g (x) = \int_ {Y} g (y) K (x, d y), x \in X,$$

defines a measurable function Kg in M for every measurable function g in N;

$$\mu K (B) = \int K (x, B) d \mu (x), B \in \mathfrak {N},$$

defines a measure $\mu K$ on (Y, N) for each measure µ on (X, M); and

$$(\mu K) g = \mu (K g) = \int_ {X} d \mu (x) \int_ {Y} g (y) K (x, d y)$$

for every measure µ on (X, M) and N-measurable function g(y) on Y .

Theorem 3 allows us to treat kernels as objects that map measures.

In addition to viewing the kernel which maps a measure $\mu$ on $X$ to a measure $\mu K$ on $Y$ , we can also view it as mapping to a measure on the product space $X \times Y$ , with σ-algebra ${ \mathfrak { M } } \otimes { \mathfrak { N } } .$ . This construction will be similar to vector-matrix multiplication if we were to halt the process before summing along the rows (or columns for row vectors).

Theorem 4. [7, Pg. 41] Let $\mu$ be a measure on (X, M) and K be a Markov kernel from (X, M) to (Y, N). Then define the measure γ by how it acts on measurable functions $f ( x , y )$ in $( { \mathfrak { M } } \otimes { \mathfrak { N } } )$ + in the following way:

$$\gamma f = \int_ {X} d \mu (x) \int_ {Y} f (x, y) K (x, d y).$$

This defines a measure on the product space $( X \times Y , { \mathfrak { M } } \otimes { \mathfrak { N } } )$ . If K is a Markov kernel and $\mu$ is σ-finite, then $\gamma$ is σ-finite and is the unique measure on the product space satisfying
