CaTL has both qualitative semantics, i.e., a specification is satisfied or violated, and quantitative semantics (known as robustness), which defines how much a specification is satisfied. The robustness of CaTL is an integer representing the minimum number of agents that can be removed from (added to) a given team in order to invalidate (satisfy) the given formula. Such a robustness metric is discontinuous and cannot represent how strongly each task is satisfied. In this paper, for the new logic CaTL+, we define two new quantitative semantics, called traditional robustness and exponential robustness. Both are continuous with respect to their inputs and can measure how strongly a task is satisfied. A higher robustness indicates more agents reach the region and stay closer to the center for a longer time. Similar to the traditional robustness of STL [17], the new traditional robustness only takes into account the most satisfaction or violation point, and ignores all other points, which is called masking. The proposed exponential robustness eliminates masking by considering all subformulas, all time points and all agents, which makes the control synthesis from CaTL+ easier and the result more robust. This new definition also includes a novel robustness for STL, which has the strongest mask-eliminating property in promise of soundness compared with existing STL robustness metrics.

We also formulate and solve a centralized control synthesis problem from CaTL+. Control synthesis for cLTL [12], cLTL+ [14], CaTL [13] and STL with integral predicates [15] are solved in a graph environment using a (mixed) Integer Linear Program (ILP), where the controls are transitions between vertices in a graph. In this paper, we consider a continuous workspace shared by all agents. Each agent has its own discrete time dynamics with continuous state and control spaces. We propose a two-step optimization: a global optimization followed by a gradient-based local optimization to obtain the controls that maximize CaTL+ robustness.
