# 4.1. Diffusive control laws and unstable cancellations

The formulation of Proposition 4.1 is more intuitive than that of Theorem 3.1. Still, neither of them explains why no edge controller can stabilize the system in Fig. 2 if agents share common unstable dynamics, directions counted. In this part we aim at offering explanations. We argue that a key property to this end is intrinsic unstable cancellations between the plant and the controller.

The cascade (series) interconnection $G _ { 2 } G _ { 1 }$ has cancellations if deg $( G _ { 2 } G _ { 1 } ) \ < \ \deg ( G _ { 1 } ) + \deg ( G _ { 2 } )$ . In other words, cancellations mean that some parts of the dynamics (modes) of either factor disappear in the cascade. Specifically, we say that a pole of $G _ { 1 } ( s )$ and/or $G _ { 2 } ( s )$ is canceled if its multiplicity in $G _ { 2 } ( s ) G _ { 1 } ( s )$ is smaller than the sum of its multiplicities in $G _ { 1 } ( s )$ and $G _ { 2 } ( s )$ ). Cancellations in the SISO case are always caused by the presence of zeros of $G _ { 1 } ( s )$ at the locations of poles of $G _ { 2 } ( s )$ , or vice versa. As such, they are termed pole-zero cancellations. The situation is more complex in the MIMO case. For example, let

$$
G _ {1} (s) = \frac {1}{s} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right] \quad \text { and } \quad G _ {2} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & - 1 \\ - 1 & 1 \end{array} \right],
$$

with deg $\left( G _ { 1 } \right) = 2$ (two poles at the origin) and $\deg ( G _ { 2 } ) = 0$ (no poles). The system $G _ { 2 }$ is static and thus has no zeros either. Nevertheless, the transfer function

$$
G _ {2} (s) G _ {1} (s) = \frac {1}{s} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & - 1 \\ - 1 & 1 \end{array} \right]
$$

is first order, meaning that one of the poles of $G _ { 1 } ( s )$ is canceled. Such cancellations, brought on by the normal rank deficiency of $G _ { 2 } ( s )$ , are a lesser-known phenomenon.

The result below, proved in §4.2, states that such cancellations are present between the plant and the controller in Fig. 2 whenever the conditions of Proposition 4.1 hold.

Proposition 4.3. Let $P ( s )$ and $K _ { e } ( s )$ be real rational and proper and let $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 }$ be a pole of 𝑃(𝑠).

i) If (14a) holds, then 𝜆 is canceled in $P ( s ) K ( s )$ .   
ii) If (14b) holds, then 𝜆 is canceled in $K ( s ) P ( s )$ .
