1) $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ is a nonsingular H-matrix.   
2) There exists some positive diagonal matrix $\underline { { \tau } } _ { F } \in \mathbf { \Omega }$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { ( N - K ) \times ( N - K ) }$ such that $\boldsymbol { \Xi } _ { F } \boldsymbol { \mathcal { L } } _ { F } + \boldsymbol { \mathcal { L } } _ { F } ^ { \mathrm { T } } \boldsymbol { \Xi } _ { F } \succ 0 .$ .

Proof. 1) Since $\mathcal { G }$ is quasi-strongly connected, the eigenvalues of $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ all possess positive real parts by Lemma 5.3 of

Reference [32]. Hence, $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ is nonsingular. Further, in view of Lemma 5.4 of Reference [32], we have that $\mathcal { M } \left( \mathcal { L } _ { F } \right)$ is an M-matrix. This indicates that $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ is an H-matrix. Therefore, $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ is a nonsingular H-matrix.

2) It straightforwardly follows from Lemma 4 and the fact that $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ is a nonsingular H-matrix. □

Lemma 8. [32] Let G be quasi-strongly connected with its Laplacian matrix $\mathcal { L }$ given in (12). Suppose $\mathcal { G } _ { L }$ is structurally balanced, and define $\zeta = - \mathcal { L } _ { F } ^ { - 1 } \mathcal { L } _ { F L } G _ { L } 1 _ { K } ,$ , where $G _ { L } \ \in \ \mathbb { G } _ { K }$ such that $G _ { L } \mathcal { L } _ { L } G _ { L } \ = \ \overline { { { \mathcal { M } } } } \left( \mathcal { L } _ { L } \right)$ , then $| \zeta | \ \leq$ $1 _ { N - K }$ . Moreover, if G is structurally balanced, then $| \zeta | =$ $1 _ { N - K }$ with $\zeta = \mathbb { G } _ { F } 1 _ { N - K }$ , where $\mathbb { G } _ { F } \in \mathbb { G } _ { N - K }$ such that diag $\left\{ G _ { L } , G _ { F } \right\} \mathcal { L } \mathrm { d i a g } \left\{ G _ { L } , G _ { F } \right\} = \mathcal { M } \left( \mathcal { L } \right)$ .

Based on Lemmas 7 and 8, the following theorem can be established, which shows that for the CAN (3) under a quasistrongly signed graph G , the protocol (4) can ensure the CAN to reach prescribed-time interval bipartite consensus (resp., stability) in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 } , \mathrm { i f } \mathcal { G } _ { L }$ is structurally balanced (resp., unbalanced).

Theorem 2. Consider the nominal CAN (3) under the control protocol (4), and let G be quasi-strongly connected. Then, the nominal CAN (3) reaches
