1) prescribed-time signed-average consensus in the prespecified finite time $T _ { 1 } , i f \mathcal { G }$ is structurally balanced.   
2) prescribed-time stability in the pre-specified finite time T1, if G is structurally unbalanced.

Proof. (1) Since $\mathcal { G }$ is undirected and connected, one has from Lemma 2 that p = 1 1N . This leads to ε = X − 1TN GX $\begin{array} { r } { p = \frac { 1 } { N } 1 _ { N } } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { \varepsilon = X - \frac { 1 _ { N } ^ { \mathrm { T } } G X } { N } G 1 _ { N } } \end{array}$ N . The rest proof follows the same line as that of the first conclusion of Theorem 1.

(2) It follows readily from the second conclusion of Theorem 1 and the fact that undirected graphs are included as a special case of directed graphs. □

Remark 2. Corollary 1 significantly extends the results in References [7] and [14], where the finite-time and fixed-time signed-average consensus and stability problems are, respectively, addressed for first-order CANs with connected undirected signed graph topology. Furthermore, the prescribedtime signed-average consensus result of Corollary 1 includes the classical prescribed-time average consensus result of Theorem 1 in Reference [29] as a special case, since traditional cooperative networks is a trivial case of structurally balanced CANs.

Corollary 2. Consider the nominal CAN (3) under the control protocol (4). Let $\mathcal { G }$ be strongly connected with its edge weights all positive. Then, the nominal CAN (3) reaches prescribedtime consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 }$ .

Proof. Since $w _ { k l } \ge 0 , \forall k , l \in \mathcal { I } _ { N } .$ , we have that $\mathcal { G }$ is structurally balanced with $G = I { \mathrm { ~ o r ~ } } G = - I$ . This implies $\epsilon = X - \left( p ^ { \mathrm { T } } X \right) \mathbf { 1 } _ { N }$ . The rest of the proof is the same as that of the first conclusion of Theorem 1 and is thus omitted.

Next, we consider the scenario where $\mathcal { G }$ is quasi-strongly connected. Since no directed path exists from arbitrary follower $l \in \mathcal { F }$ to arbitrary leader $k \in { \mathcal { L } } .$ , the adjacency matrix $\mathcal { W }$ can be expressed as

$$
\mathcal {W} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} \mathcal {W} _ {L} & 0 \\ \mathcal {W} _ {F L} & \mathcal {W} _ {F} \end{array} \right],
$$
