\operatorname{pdir} _ {\mathrm{i}} (P _ {2}, 0) = \operatorname{Im} \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ \beta \end{array} \right], \quad \text { and } \quad \operatorname{pdir} _ {\mathrm{o}} (P _ {2}, 0) = \operatorname{Im} \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ \alpha \end{array} \right].
$$

There are nontrivial intersections between input and output directions of the agents if and only if $\beta = 0$ and $\alpha = 0 ,$ , respectively. The incidence matrix is $E = \left[ \begin{array} { c } { { 1 } } \\ { { - 1 } } \end{array} \right]$ in this case. Choose the edge controller (there is only one edge in this example) as

$$
K _ {\mathrm{e}} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} (\alpha - \beta) \beta & - \alpha \\ \beta & 0 \end{array} \right].
$$

The closed-loop characteristic polynomial, understood as the lowest common denominator of elements of $T _ { 4 } ( s )$ in $( 8 )$ , is then $( s + \alpha ^ { 2 } ) ( s + \beta ^ { 2 } )$ . Thus, the closed-loop system is stable unless 𝛼 = 0 or $\beta = 0$ , which agrees with (14).

Also worth emphasizing is that conditions (14a) and (14b) might not be equivalent for MIMO agents, as illustrated by the example below.

Example 3. Return to the system studied in Example 1. Directions associated with the (unstable) pole at the origin are

$$
\operatorname{pdir} _ {\mathrm{i}} (P _ {i}, 0) = \operatorname{Im} \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array} \right], \quad \forall i \in \mathbb {N} _ {3}
$$

but

$$
\operatorname{pdir} _ {0} (P _ {1}, 0) = \operatorname{Im} \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 1 \end{array} \right] \neq \operatorname{Im} \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array} \right] = \operatorname{pdir} _ {0} (P _ {2}, 0).
$$

Thus, in this case (14a) holds, whereas (14b) does not. This agrees with what we saw in Example 1 with respect to conditions (7).

Another outcome of the finite dimensionality is that the formulation of Corollary 3.2 can be strengthened to an $^ { 6 6 } \mathrm { { _ { i f } ^ { ~ } } }$ and only $\mathrm { i f } ^ { \mathrm { * } }$ statement.

Corollary 4.2. If the agents are homogeneous, i.e. $P _ { i } = P _ { 0 } f o r$ all $i \in \mathbb { N } _ { \nu } ,$ , and $P _ { 0 } ( s )$ is real rational and proper, then an LTI $K _ { e , j }$ can internally stabilize the diffusively-coupled system in $F i g . 2$ if and only $i f P _ { 0 }$ is stable.

Proof. If $P _ { 0 }$ is unstable, then it has a pole in $\bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 }$ and Corollary 3.2 applies. If $P _ { 0 }$ is stable, $K _ { \mathrm { e } } = 0$ does the job. 
