# I. INTRODUCTION

TATE estimation is crucial for many applications such S as control, monitoring, and fault diagnosis. For linear systems, the Kalman filter [1] and the Luenberger observer [2] are the most commonly applied state estimation methods. An alternative is moving horizon estimation (MHE) [3]– [7], where the state estimation problem is centered around an optimization problem. Loosely speaking, at each time step, an optimization problem is solved to determine a state sequence that satisfies the mathematical model of the system dynamics, some known state constraints and/or disturbance bounds. Moreover, the computed state sequence is optimal with respect to a cost function considering the past output measurements that are inside a moving time window. Hence, the standard MHE (as well as the Kalman filter and the Luenberger observer) requires knowledge of a mathematical model describing the underlying system dynamics.

A framework for an alternative system representation that does not require any system identification was established in [8]. The main result of that work states that any system trajectory of length L of a linear time-invariant discrete-time (LTI-DT) system can be represented by using the span of a single persistently exciting trajectory measured from that system. This result, also known as Willems’ fundamental lemma, has been used for data-driven simulation and control [9], for the design of data-driven linear quadratic regulators

This project has received funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (grant agreement No 948679).
