We here discuss two options how process noise could be treated in the data-driven MHE scheme. First, one could assume that the process noise can be measured directly, as partly assumed in the context of data-driven MPC in, $\mathrm { e . g . }$ , [36]. In that case, the process noise could be treated as an additional input, where one would need to make sure that the concatenated control input u and the process noise input w fulfill the persistency of excitation assumption. The constraint (9c) would need to be augmented by the Hankel matrix containing the offline measured process noise trajectory and (regarding the online phase) by the measured process noise trajectory. However, the assumption that the process noise can be measured in practice is rarely fulfilled. Alternatively, if one does not consider that the process noise can be measured directly, one could incorporate the (unknown) process noise terms in the Hankel matrix composed of the offline measured state trajectory. Namely, if process noise is considered, the entries $\tilde { x } ^ { d } ( t )$ of the Hankel matrix $H _ { L + 1 } ( \tilde { x } _ { [ 0 , N - 1 ] } ^ { d } )$ on the left hand side of (9c) are given by

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {x} ^ {d} (t) = A ^ {t} \tilde {x} (0) + \sum_ {i = 0} ^ {t - 1} A ^ {t - 1 - i} B u ^ {d} (i) \\ + \sum_ {i = 0} ^ {t - 1} A ^ {t - 1 - i} w ^ {d} (i) + \varepsilon_ {x} ^ {d} (t). \tag {15} \\ \end{array}
$$

Consequently, the fitting error sequence $\sigma ^ { x }$ must compensate (i) the measurement noise $\varepsilon _ { x } ^ { d } ( t )$ corrupting the offline measured states and (ii) the cumulated process noise. The cumulated process noise would have to be bounded such that the term related to $\sigma _ { [ - L , 0 ] } ^ { x } ( t )$ in the cost function remains bounded. Therefore, we would need to upper bound the maximal cumulated process noise at any time t by, e.g.,

$$\sum_ {i = 0} ^ {t - 1} A ^ {t - 1 - i} w ^ {d} (i) \leq \sum_ {i = 0} ^ {t - 1} | A ^ {t - 1 - i} | _ {\infty} w _ {\max} ^ {d}, \tag {16}$$

where $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { d }$ is the maximal occurring process noise. This is possible if all eigenvalues of the matrix A are strictly inside the unit circle. Therefore, we would need to limit our analysis to stable systems (or pre-stabilized systems). In a related robust stability proof, one would need to treat the cumulated process noise as additional measurement noise and treat it similar to $\varepsilon _ { x } ^ { d }$ .
