# 3. The main result

The main technical result of this work, whose proof is postponed to §3.1, is formulated as follows.

Theorem 3.1. No LTI $K _ { e , j }$ can internally stabilize the diffusively-coupled system in Fig. 2 if there is $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 } ,$ common to all agents, such that

$$\bigcap_ {i = 1} ^ {\nu} \ker \left[ M _ {i} (\lambda) \right] ^ {\top} \neq \{0 \} \tag {7a}$$

or

$$\bigcap_ {i = 1} ^ {\nu} \ker \tilde {M} _ {i} (\lambda) \neq \{0 \}. \tag {7b}$$

where $M _ { i }$ and $\tilde { M } _ { i }$ are denominators in the coprime factorizations of $P _ { i }$ under $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 }$ .

Theorem 3.1, formulated in terms of coprime factors of agents, might appear somewhat abstract and technical. This is a consequence of considering a fairly general class of LTI agents under the mild assumption $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 }$ . We show in the next section that if the class of admissible agents is limited to finite-dimensional ones, then more insightful statements can be provided. Nevertheless, the formulation in Theorem 3.1 becomes substantially more intuitive in some frequently studied special cases.

The first of them is the case of homogeneous agents, which is perhaps the best studied situation.

Corollary 3.2. If the agents are homogeneous, i.e. $P _ { i } = P _ { 0 } f o r$ all $i \in \mathbb { N } _ { \nu } ,$ , and $P _ { 0 } ( s )$ has at least one pole in $\bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 } ,$ then no LTI $K _ { e , j }$ can internally stabilize the system in Fig. 2.

Proof. By Lemma A.2, if $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 }$ is a pole of $P _ { 0 } ( s )$ , then both $M _ { 0 } ( \lambda )$ and $\tilde { M } _ { 0 } ( \lambda )$ are singular, whence the result follows. 

This result readily applies to the problem studied in §1.1. The agents in (3) are homogeneous and $P _ { 0 } ( s ) = 1 / s$ has an unstable pole at the origin. Corollary 3.2 then agrees with the conclusion of §1.1 that the closed-loop system is not internally stable.

Another particular case for which the formulation is simplified is a MAS with SISO agents.

Corollary 3.3. If the agents are SISO and all have a pole at the same $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 } ,$ , regardless of multiplicities, then no LTI $K _ { e , j }$ can internally stabilize the diffusively-coupled system in Fig. 2.

Proof. By Lemma A.2, in this case $M _ { i } ( \lambda ) = \tilde { M } _ { i } ( \lambda ) = 0$ for all $i \in \mathbb { N } _ { \nu }$ , whence the result follows.
