The phase field model is complex, nonlinear, and high DOF, and does not admit analytical solutions.
Thus, data based approaches are natural to consider for the control of these systems.
In recent work [10], we proposed a novel decoupled data based control (D2C) algorithm for learning to control an unknown nonlinear dynamical system.
Our approach introduced a rigorous decoupling of the open-loop (planning) problem from the closed-loop (feedback control) problem.
This decoupling allows us to come up with a highly efficient approach to solve the problem in a completely data based fashion.
Our approach proceeds in two steps: (i) first, we optimize the nominal open-loop trajectory of the system using a ‘blackbox simulation’ model, (ii) then we identify the linear system governing perturbations from the nominal trajectory using random input-output perturbation data, and design an LQR controller for this linearized system.
We have shown that the performance of D2C algorithm is approximately optimal, in the sense that the decoupled design is near optimal to second order in a suitably defined noise parameter [10].
In this work, we apply the D2C approach to the optimal control of the evolution of material micro-structures governed by the phase field model.
For comparison, we consider RL techniques [11].
The past several years have seen significant progress in deep neural networks based reinforcement learning approaches for controlling unknown dynamical systems, with applications in many areas like playing games [12], locomotion [13] and robotic hand manipulation [14].
A number of new algorithms that show promising performance are proposed [15][16][17] and various improvements and innovations have been continuously developed.
However, despite excellent performance on a number of tasks, RL is highly data intensive.
The training time for such algorithms is typically very large, and high variance and reproducibility issues mar the performance [18].
Thus, materials microstructure control is intractable for current RL techniques.
Recent work in RL has also focused on PDE control using techniques like the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient(DDPG) with modifications such as action descriptors to limit the large action spaces in infinite dimensional systems [19], as such algorithms tend to degrade in performance with an increase in dimensionality of the action-space.
