where $x ( 0 )$ denotes the real (unknown) system state x at time $t = 0$ and $u _ { [ 0 , t - 1 ] }$ the real input sequence from time 0 up to t − 1. Please note that the left-hand side of (22) contains the (unknown) noise-free offline state sequence. According to Assumption 1 and Lemma 1, the concatenated Hankel matrices in equation (22) have full row rank. Therefore, there exists a right inverse (denoted by ) so that

$$
\alpha (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} H _ {t} (u _ {[ 0, N - 2 ]} ^ {d}) \\ H _ {1} (x _ {[ 0, N - t - 1 ]} ^ {d}) \end{array} \right] ^ {\dagger} \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {[ 0, t - 1 ]} \\ x (0) \end{array} \right]. \tag {23}
$$

The states and outputs of a DT-LTI system are linear combinations of the initial condition and the inputs (compare [9] for a detailed explanation), therefore the above choice of α implies

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} H _ {t} (u _ {[ 0, N - 2 ]} ^ {d}) \\ H _ {t} (y _ {[ 0, N - 2 ]} ^ {d}) \\ H _ {t + 1} (x _ {[ 0, N - 1 ]} ^ {d}) \end{array} \right] \alpha (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {[ 0, t - 1 ]} \\ \tilde {y} _ {[ 0, t - 1 ]} - v _ {[ 0, t - 1 ]} \\ x _ {[ 0, t ]} \end{array} \right], \tag {24}
$$

meaning that the real input, output, and state sequences are generated by that choice of α, where we need to subtract the true measurement noise from the noisy output measurements in the second row of (24) in order to make Willems’ lemma hold. The slack $\sigma ^ { x }$ in relation to the candidate trajectory is chosen as

$$\sigma_ {[ - t, 0 ]} ^ {x} (t) = H _ {t + 1} (\varepsilon_ {x, [ 0, N - 1 ]} ^ {d}) \alpha (t). \tag {25}$$

The slack $\sigma ^ { y }$ must compensate the measurement noise (that occurs in the online phase) but also the noise affecting the offline collected output measurements. Therefore, the slack $\sigma ^ { y }$ associated with the candidate trajectory is chosen as

$$\sigma_ {[ - t, - 1 ]} ^ {y} (t) = \sigma_ {[ - t, - 1 ]} ^ {\varepsilon_ {y}} (t) + v _ {[ 0, t - 1 ]} \tag {26}$$

where v corresponds to the true measurement noise and

$$\sigma_ {[ - t, - 1 ]} ^ {\varepsilon_ {y}} (t) = H _ {t} (\varepsilon_ {y, [ 0, N - 2 ]} ^ {d}) \alpha (t). \tag {27}$$

This selection of $\alpha , ~ \sigma ^ { x }$ and $\sigma ^ { y }$ implies that all constraints in (9b) are satisfied, meaning that the candidate trajectory is a feasible solution. Furthermore, (9c) holds since the real (undisturbed) state trajectory is contained in the constrained set X. We want to upper bound the cost function related to the candidate solution. First, we can bound |α| by using (23) to obtain
