# C. Training and Testing

D2C implementation is done in three stages corresponding to those mentioned in the previous section, and a black box phase field model is simulated in Python.

Training: The open-loop training plots in Fig. 5 show the cost curve during training. After the cost curves converge, we get the optimal control sequence that could drive the systems to accomplish their tasks. The training parameters and outcomes are summarized in (Tables I, II, III). We note that the training time is dominated by the Python simulation code, and can be made significantly faster with an optimized and parallellized code. Thus, we envisage this work as an initial proof of the concept for controlling material microstructures.

The open-loop optimal trajectory learned by the D2C algorithm after convergence (for goal state-III, Allen-Cahn PDE) is shown in Figure 6.

TABLE I: Comparison of the training outcomes of D2C with DDPG for the Allen-Cahn Model.

<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Goal State</td><td colspan="2">Training time (in sec.)</td></tr><tr><td>D2C</td><td>DDPG</td></tr><tr><td>Goal-I(10X10)</td><td>15.83</td><td>2567.71*</td></tr><tr><td>Goal-II(20X20)</td><td>55.206</td><td>4419.36*</td></tr><tr><td>Goal-III(50X50)</td><td>3289.354</td><td>**</td></tr></table>

The open-loop training is run on a laptop with a 2-core CPU@2.9GHz and 12GB RAM. No multi-threading at this point.

\* implies algorithm cannot converge to the goal state.   
\*\* implies system running out of memory at run-time.

TABLE II: Comparison of the training outcomes of D2C with DDPG for the Cahn-Hilliard Model.

<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Goal State</td><td colspan="2">Training time (in sec.)</td></tr><tr><td>D2C</td><td>DDPG</td></tr><tr><td>Goal-I(10X10)</td><td>141.573</td><td>3204.121*</td></tr><tr><td>Goal-II(20X20)</td><td>5083.223</td><td>9956.454*</td></tr></table>

The open-loop training is run on a laptop with a 2-core CPU@2.9GHz and 12GB RAM. No multi-threading at this point.

\* implies algorithm cannot converge to the goal state.

TABLE III: Parameter size comparison between D2C and DDPG
