Corollary 3. Consider the nominal CAN (3) under the control protocol (4). Let G be quasi-strongly connected and structurally balanced. Then, the nominal CAN (3) achieves prescribed-time bipartite consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 }$ .

Proof. Since any subgraph of a structurally balanced signed digraph is structurally balanced, one knows that $\mathcal { G } _ { L }$ is structurally balanced by the structural balance of G . When $K \geq 2 ,$ , it follows from the above proof of the first conclusion of Theorem 2 that (20) and (22) hold. Since $\mathcal { G }$ is quasi-strongly connected and structurally balanced, one has from Lemma 8 that $\zeta = \mathbb { G } _ { F } 1 _ { N - K }$ . This, together with (22), leads to

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l}\lim _ {t \rightarrow T _ {1}} X _ {F} = \mathbb {G} _ {F} 1 _ {N - K} c\\X _ {F} = \mathbb {G} _ {F} 1 _ {N - K} c, \forall t \geq T _ {1}.\end{array}\right. \tag {26}
$$

Further, using (20) and (26), we can obtain that $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  T _ { 1 } } | x _ { k } | = | c | } \end{array}$ and $| x _ { k } | = | c | , \forall t \ge T _ { 1 }$ hold for all $k \in \mathcal { I } _ { N }$ .

When $K \ = \ 1$ , we have from the above proof of the first conclusion of Theorem 2 that $X _ { L } \ \equiv \ X _ { L } \left( 0 \right) , \forall t \ \ge$ 0 and (24) hold. Using Lemma 8, we can obtain $- \mathcal { L } _ { F } ^ { - 1 } \mathcal { L } _ { F L } = \mathbb { G } _ { F } 1 _ { N - 1 } \mathbb { G } _ { L }$ . This, together with (24), implies that li $\mathbf { \sigma } _ { 1 t  T _ { 1 } } | x _ { l } | = | X _ { L } ( 0 ) |$ and $| x _ { l } | = \left| X _ { L } \left( 0 \right) \right| , \forall t \ge T _ { 1 }$ hold for all $l \in \mathcal { F } .$ . Therefore, lim $_ { t  T _ { 1 } } | x _ { k } | = | x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) |$ and $\left| x _ { k } \right| = \left| x _ { 1 } \left( 0 \right) \right| , \forall t \geq T _ { 1 }$ hold for all k $\in \mathcal { I } _ { N }$ .

Combining the above two aspects, we can see that prescribed-time bipartite consensus of the nominal CAN (3) is reached in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 }$ . The proof is done. □

Corollary 4. Consider the nominal CAN (3) under the control protocol (4). Let G be quasi-strongly connected with its edge weights all positive. Then, the nominal CAN (3) achieves prescribed-time consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 }$ .
