One such assumption could be restricting not only to measures which have finite $c _ { X }$ (or $c _ { Y }$ integrals) but also finite $a ( x )$ (or $b ( y ) )$ integrals. If we were in a case where we have $- c _ { X } ( x ) - c _ { Y } ( y ) \leq c ( x , y ) \leq c _ { X } ( x ) + c _ { Y } ( y )$ , then we would immediately have integrability with respect to $a ( x ) = - c _ { X } ( x )$ and $b ( y ) = c _ { Y } ( y )$ .

We prove the following corollary of Theorem 2 (Kantorovich Duality) to extend Theorem 1 from saying that optimality is inherited by restriction to establishing that optimality is inherited by absolutely continuous measures, under appropriate hypotheses.

Corollary 1. Let $( X , \mu )$ and $( Y , \nu )$ be two Polish probability spaces and let $c ( x , y )$ be a non-negative continuous cost function. Let γ be an optimal coupling between $\mu$ and ν with finite cost. Let $\omega \in { \mathcal { P } } ( X \times Y )$ be another probability measure that is absolutely continuous with respect to γ. Then if ω has finite cost, it is an optimal transport plan between its marginals, $\eta : = ( \mathrm { p r o j } _ { X } ) _ { \# } \omega \in \mathcal { P } ( X )$ and $\zeta : = ( \mathrm { p r o j } _ { Y } ) _ { \# } \omega \in \mathcal { P } ( Y )$ .

Proof. Consider such an ω. By assumption it has finite cost, and hence it is an immediate upper bound for the optimal transport cost $C ( \eta , \zeta )$ , as defined in Equation (1). Thus we satisfy the hypothesis for Theorem 2.

Since $\gamma$ is an optimal transport plan, it is supported on a $c { - } \mathrm { C M }$ set Γ. Since ω is absolutely continuous with respect to γ, $\operatorname { s u p p } ( \omega ) \subset \Gamma$ . Thus, by Theorem $2 ( \mathrm { b } )$ it is an optimal transport plan between its marginals. 

This is a consequence of the Kantorovich Duality Theorem (Theorem 2), but is an extension of Theorem 1.

A useful application of Corollary 1 is when we have an optimal transport plan and are looking at a measure that is absolutely continuous with respect to one of the marginals. In order to ensure that we retain finite transport cost, we need to add an additional constraint either on the Radon-Nikodym derivative of the measure, or on the behavior of the cost function on the support of the optimal transport plan. Corollary 2 proves the case when we place an additional constraint on the Radon-Nikodym derivative, and Corollary 3 proves the case with the additional constraint of the cost function on the support of the original optimal transport plan.
