Unstable pole-zero cancellations between a plant and a controller are a consensual taboo in feedback control. Textbooks treat them as a kind of a cardinal sin, which shall be avoided at all costs. The reason is that canceled dynamics do not really disappear. For example, poles of a SISO plant $P ( s )$ canceled by zeros of a controller $K ( s )$ always show up in the closed-loop disturbance sensitivity $T _ { \mathrm { d } } ( s )$ , see (8). This is the very reason to require internal stability. Unstable cancellations due to deficient normal rank are less common and less studied. Nevertheless, they cause same repercussions. Namely, canceled dynamics shows up in at least one closed-loop relation, rendering the system prone to the effect of exogenous signals.

Assume, for example, that condition (14a), or $\mathrm { ( 7 a ) }$ , holds for some $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 }$ . It follows from the proof of Theorem 3.1 that there is then $v \neq 0$ such that (12) holds. Therefore,

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ \mathbb {1} \otimes v \end{array} \right] \in \mathrm{zdir} _ {\mathrm{o}} \left(\left[ \begin{array}{c c} M _ {K} & - N _ {P} \\ - N _ {K} & M _ {P} \end{array} \right], \lambda\right) = \mathrm{pdir} _ {\mathrm{i}} (T _ {4}, \lambda)
$$

where the equality follows by Lemma B.3 and the fact that the factors in (9) are right coprime. By Lemma B.1 and (8)

$$
T _ {4} (s) \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ \mathbb {1} \otimes v \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c} T _ {\mathrm{d}} (s) \\ T (s) \end{array} \right] (\mathbb {1} \otimes v)
$$

has an unstable pole at $s = \lambda$ . In other words, there is a load disturbance $d _ { u }$ in Fig. 2 such that either 𝑦 or 𝑢 or both is unbounded. Likewise, it can be shown that if (14b) holds, then ${ \left[ \begin{array} { l l } { S } & { T _ { \mathrm { d } } } \end{array} \right] } \ \notin \ H _ { \infty } , { \mathrm { i . e . } } \ d _ { u }$ or/and $d _ { y }$ might cause an unbounded 𝑦. This explains why the consensus protocol in §1.1 has an unstable load disturbance response.

It can be shown that if the consensus discussed in §1.1 can be attained, then all components of $T _ { 4 }$ but $T _ { \mathrm { d } }$ are stable, whereas $T _ { \mathrm { d } } ( s )$ has a pole at the origin. This agrees with the situation in SISO pole-zero cancellations discussed above. However, $T _ { \mathrm { d } }$ is not necessarily unstable in a general MIMO case if either of the conditions in (14) holds. The example below illustrates a different scenario.
