2) A fully distributed continuous control protocol for PTCC of nominal single-integrator CANs is proposed without using any global information. In addition, a novel second-order sliding mode control protocol is devised for robust PTCC of single-integrator CANs with bounded external perturbations. Moreover, the settling times of presented control protocols can be explicitly specified a priori without relying on initial conditions, design parameters, and interaction topology among agents.

3) Sufficient conditions are given for prescribed-time stability, signed-average consensus, bipartite consensus, interval bipartite consensus, and bipartite containment of single-integrator CANs with or without external disturbances. Our results significantly generalize the existing infinite/finite/fixed-time coordination control results reported in [1], [6], [11], [30]–[32] and the classical prescribed-time average consensus, consensus tracking, and containment control results in [29] for conventional cooperative networks under unsigned digraphs. In comparison to the existing results on PTCC of CANs [21]– [28], we remove the assumptions on (strong) connectivity, sign-symmetry, or structural balance of signed digraphs.

The remainder of this article is outlined as follows. In Section II, we present some preliminaries required for subsequent development and formally state the problems under consideration. In Section III, the main results on PTCC of single-integrator CANs without and with perturbations are included. Numerical examples for demonstrating the validity of the results proposed are provided in Sections IV and Section V concludes this article.
