# 3. Absolutely Continuous Measures Inherit Optimality

In this section we extend the capabilities of optimal couplings by showing that optimality is retained when considering absolutely continuous measures with respect to the optimal couplings or one of the marginals. This allows us to send a Radon-Nikodym derivative ‘through’ an optimal coupling akin to sending a vector through a matrix, or a measure through a transition kernel. Thus optimal transport couplings can behave similarly to Markov kernels and this will help us establish optimal transport kernels in Section 4.

Theorem 1 establishes that a measure $\gamma ^ { \prime }$ inherits optimality when it is generated by renormalizing a measure $\tilde { \gamma }$ that is dominated by an optimal transport plan γ. This paper revisits and strengthens that relationship by showing that any absolutely continuous measure with respect to an optimal coupling will also be optimal, so long as it retains finite cost.

To simplify our presentation we will only consider continuous and non-negative cost functions. Further, we will assume that $c ( x , y )$ satisfies the pointwise upper bound $c ( x , y ) \leq c _ { X } ( x ) + c _ { Y } ( y )$ for fixed functions $c _ { X } ( x )$ , and $c _ { Y } ( y )$ . We then restrict our attention to measures $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ and $\nu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( Y )$ such that $c _ { X } ( x ) \in L ( \mu )$ and $c _ { Y } ( y ) \in$ $L ( \nu )$ . Thus the cX-integral of $\mu$ and cY -integral of ν are finite. We denote the set of such measures $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( X )$ and $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( Y )$ . Limiting to $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( X )$ and $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( Y )$ is a common restriction.

Remark 1. In an analogy to Wasserstein distances, we note that restricting to $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( X )$ 号 is equivalent to looking at the measures with finite $p ^ { t h }$ -moments for the $p ^ { t h }$ Wasserstein distance where the cost function is given by $c ( x , y ) = \mathrm { d i s t } ( x , y ) ^ { p }$ .

It is necessary to consider only continuous cost functions to ensure that the support of our optimal coupling is $c { - } \mathrm { C M }$ . We assume non-negativity to circumvent the need to prove the integrability of $a ( x )$ and $b ( y )$ with respect to the new marginals. When the cost is non-negative we can set a and b to be 0, ensuring the integrability of a and b. Unlike the continuity of the cost, this is optional and the theory can be furthered by applying more specific assumptions.
