# C. CaTL+ Quantitative Semantics

The qualitative semantics defined above provides a True or False value, meaning that the CaTL+ formula is satisfied or not. In this section, we define its quantitative semantics, also known as robustness. This is a real value that measures how much a formula is satisfied. We introduce two robustness metrics for CaTL+, the traditional robustness (inspired by [17]) and the exponential robustness.

For simplicity, we give the definition of CaTL+ robustness in a structured manner. We show that a robustness metric for CaTL+ can be captured by only the robustness for conjunction and task. According to the De Morgan law, disjunction can be replaced by conjunction and negation, i.e., $\Phi _ { 1 } \lor \Phi _ { 2 } = \lnot ( \lnot \Phi _ { 1 } \land \lnot \Phi _ { 2 } )$ . Meanwhile, the temporal operator “always” and “eventually” can be regarded as conjunction and disjunction evaluated over individual time steps. For any robustness metric, the robustness of a predicate $h \big ( s ( t ) \big ) \geq 0$ is $h \big ( s ( t ) \big )$ and the robustness of ¬Φ is the negative of the robustness of Φ (see [18] for details).

1) Traditional Robustness: With a slight abuse of notations, we denote the traditional robustness of an inner logic (STL) formula $\varphi$ over an individual trajectory s and an outer logic (CaTL+) formula Φ over a team trajectory S at time t as $\rho ( \mathbf { s } , \varphi , t )$ and $\rho ( \mathbf { S } , \Phi , t )$ , respectively. The robustness of the conjunction over M subformulas with robustness values $\rho _ { 1 } , \dots , \rho _ { M }$ is defined as [17]:

$$\mathcal {A} ^ {\text {t r a d}} \left(\rho_ {1}, \dots , \rho_ {M}\right) = \min \left(\rho_ {1}, \dots , \rho_ {M}\right). \tag {8}$$

To define the robustness of a task, we introduce a function $L _ { m } : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { c } }  \mathbb { R }$ that finds the $m ^ { t h }$ largest element in a vector with $n _ { c }$ elements, where m $\leq n _ { c }$ . Then the traditional robustness for a task $T = \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle$ over a team trajectory S at time t is defined as:

$$\rho (\mathbf {S}, \langle \varphi , c, m \rangle , t) = L _ {m} ([ \rho (\mathbf {s} _ {j}, \varphi , t) ] _ {j \in \mathcal {J} _ {c}}), \tag {9}$$
