# 5.2. Review of One-Dimensional Optimal Transport

Here, we present the components of one-dimensional optimal transport theory that are directly needed for our work on one-dimensional signed measures. Interested readers can consult Chapter 2 of [30] for a full treatment of this subject.

Theorem 11. $\mathit { 3 0 , } \mathit { P g }$ . 60]. If $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( \mathbb { R } )$ and $G _ { \mu }$ is the pseudo-inverse of its CDF $F _ { \mu }$ , then $( G _ { \mu } ) _ { \# } ( { \mathcal { L } } \mid [ 0 , 1 ] ) = \mu$ , where $\mathcal { L }$ is the Lebesgue measure.

The psuedo-inverse is an important tool for us to construct a particular coupling.

Definition 9. $( / 3 0 ,  P g . \ 6 1 ] . )$ We call the coupling $( G _ { \mu } , G _ { \nu } ) _ { \# } ( { \mathcal { L } } \mid [ 0 , 1 ] )$ the monotone coupling and denote it by γmon.

The monotone coupling has the property that

$$\gamma_ {m o n} ((- \infty , c _ {i} ] \times (- \infty , d _ {i} ]) = \min (F _ {\mu} (c _ {i}), F _ {\nu} (d _ {i})) = F _ {\mu} (c _ {i}) \wedge F _ {\nu} (d _ {i})$$

The reason that we distinguish one-dimensional optimal transport is because in one dimension $c { - } \mathrm { C M }$ and monotonicity will correspond for a large class of cost functions, including the cost functions for the Wasserstein spaces. In these cases, the monotone coupling will be the optimal coupling.

Theorem 12. ([30, Pg. 63].) Let $h : \mathbb { R } \mapsto \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ be a strictly convex function and $\mu , \nu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( \mathbb { R } )$ be probability measures. Consider the cost $c ( x , y ) = h ( y - x )$ and suppose that the optimal transport cost is finite. Then, the optimal transport problem has a unique solution given by $\gamma _ { m o n } ,$ the monotone coupling between $\mu ,$ and $\nu .$

Moreover, if strict convexity is withdrawn and h is only convex then the same γmon is an optimal transport plan, but may no longer be unique.

Theorem 12 tells us that the monotone coupling is the optimal coupling for the appropriate cost functions. We now prove a result that will be useful when we move to one-dimensional signed optimal transport.

Lemma 1. Let µ and ν be measures with points $c _ { i }$ and $d _ { i }$ for i from 1 to $N - 1$ such that $F _ { \mu } ( c _ { i } ) = F _ { \nu } ( d _ { i } ) \neq 0$ . Let $\gamma _ { m o n }$ be the monotone coupling between them. Also let $c _ { 0 } , d _ { 0 } = - \infty$ and $c _ { N } , d _ { N } = \infty$ . Then supp $( \gamma _ { m o n } ) \subset \cup _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } ( c _ { i - 1 } , c _ { i } ] \times ( d _ { i - 1 } , d _ { i } ]$ .
