Now consider a task $T \ = \ \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle$ . For brevity, let $\eta _ { j } = \eta ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , \varphi , t )$ when $\varphi$ and t are clear from the context. We reorder $\{ \eta _ { j } \} _ { j \in \mathcal { I } _ { c } }$ from the largest to the smallest, i.e., $\eta _ { j _ { 1 } } \geq$ $\dots \geq \eta _ { j _ { m } } \geq \dots \geq \eta _ { j _ { n } }$ , where $j _ { k } \in \mathcal I , k = 1 , \ldots , n , n =$ $| \mathcal { I } _ { c } |$ . Note that $\eta _ { j _ { m } }$ is the critical $m ^ { t h }$ largest robustness, i.e., $\eta _ { j _ { m } } ~ = ~ L _ { m } ( [ \eta ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , \varphi , t ) ] _ { j \in \mathcal { I } _ { c } } )$ $\eta _ { j _ { k } } ^ { t a s k }$ $j _ { k } , k = 1 , \ldots , | \mathcal { T } _ { c } | \mathrm { : }$ other effective:

$$
\eta_ {j _ {k}} ^ {\text { task }} := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {2 \alpha (e ^ {\eta_ {j _ {m}}} - 1)}{1 + e ^ {- \alpha (\eta_ {j _ {k}} - \eta_ {j _ {m}})}} & \eta_ {j _ {m}} > 0, \\ \frac {- 2 \alpha (e ^ {- \eta_ {j _ {m}}} - 1)}{1 + e ^ {\alpha (\eta_ {j _ {k}} - \eta_ {j _ {m}})}} & \eta_ {j _ {m}} \leq 0, \end{array} \right. \tag {12}
$$

where $\alpha > 0$ . The relation between $\eta _ { j _ { k } } ^ { t a s k }$ and $\eta _ { j _ { k } }$ is shown in Fig. 2c and Fig. 2d $( \alpha = 1 )$ . Similar to conjunction, (12) ensures that ηtasjk $\forall k = 1 , \ldots , \left| \tilde { \mathcal { I } } _ { c } \right|$ $\eta _ { j _ { k } } ^ { t a s k }$ k has the same sign with the critical ηjm , and sk $\eta _ { j k } ^ { t a s k }$ increases monotonica|η | $\eta _ { j _ { m } } ,$ $\eta _ { j _ { k } }$ . Note that ain, we defi $\eta _ { j _ { k } } ^ { t a s k } = s g n ( \eta _ { j _ { m } } ) \alpha ( e ^ { | \eta _ { j _ { m } } | } - 1 )$ when or a tas $k = m$ mean of $\eta _ { j _ { k } } ^ { t a s k }$ to ensure soundness:

$$\eta (\mathbf {S}, \langle \varphi , c, m \rangle , t) = \frac {1}{| \mathcal {J} _ {c} |} \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {| \mathcal {J} _ {c} |} \eta_ {j _ {k}} ^ {\text {task}}. \tag {13}$$

When $\alpha \to \infty$ , the exponential robustness of a task only depends on $\eta _ { j _ { m } }$ . The exponential robustness for CaTL+ is recursively constructed from (11) and (13). In the following, we discuss the properties of the exponential robustness.

Proposition 2. Exponential robustness for CaTL+ is sound.

Proof. This follows directly from the soundness of both conjunction and task. □

In an optimal control problem, such as the one considered in Sec. IV, it is desirable to have a differentiable robustness allowing for gradient based optimization methods.
