The procedural and technical countermeasures presented the aforementioned attacks generally propose insulation of the physical channels in which data can be exfiltrated that are subsequently exploited. For both attacks and defenses, these approaches fail to encapsulate the physical model of these channels that stem from the memory-mapped inputs and outputs of the system. Such physical models can be used to perform cyber-physical state estimation to understand what will be the physical impact of a particular action in the cyber space. Further, state estimation allows for providing an understanding of the mutual dependency between physical channels, e.g., the correlation between a computer’s fan operation and the acoustic channel. From a defender’s perspective, state estimation not only enables the cyber-physical noise models that may need to be insulated, but also can perform intrusion detection if an attacker is explicitly encoding data into a particular channel that deviates from the estimated state of the channel. From an attacker’s perspective, state estimation techniques can be used to craft complex cyber-physical attacks on neglected physical channels. In both cases, the respective problems are exacerbated when moving from the static, immobile systems considered in these works–e.g., data center computers that are easier to physically insulate–to mobile and autonomous edge devices that are difficult to physically insulate and expose even more cyber-physical channels. In this paper, we aim to formalize the notion of securing all physical covert channels, particularly in the context of mobile and autonomous edge devices.
