where $[ \rho ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , \varphi , t ) ] _ { j \in \mathcal { I } _ { c } } \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { | \mathcal { I } _ { c } | }$ is a vector containing all $\rho ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , \varphi , t )$ with $j \in \mathcal { I } _ { c }$ . That is, the traditional robustness of a task $T = \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle$ is the $m ^ { t h }$ largest robustness value of $\varphi$ over all individual trajectories with capability c. The greater this value, the stronger the satisfaction of the task $T$ will be. Then the traditional robustness of CaTL+ can be recursively constructed from (8) and (9).

An important property of a robustness metric is soundness, i.e., positive robustness indicates (qualitative) satisfaction of the formula, while negative robustness corresponds to violation. Formally, we have:

Definition 4 (Soundness). A robustness metric $\rho ( \mathbf { S } , \Phi , t )$ is sound if for any formula $\Phi , \rho ( \mathbf { S } , \boldsymbol { \Phi } , t ) \geq 0 \mathrm { ~ i f f ~ } ( \mathbf { S } , t ) \mid = \boldsymbol { \Phi }$ .

Proposition 1. Traditional robustness for CaTL+ is sound.

Proof. Consider a task $\begin{array} { r l r } { T } & { { } = } & { \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle } \end{array}$ . Obviously, $L _ { m } ( [ \rho ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , \varphi , t ) ] _ { j \in \mathcal { I } _ { c } } ) \quad \geq \quad 0$ iff at least m entries in $[ \rho ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , \varphi , t ) ] _ { j \in \mathcal { I } _ { c } }$ are non-negative, which means that $( \mathbf { S } , t ) \vDash$ T . Since all the other operators are identical with STL [17], the traditional robustness for CaTL+ is sound. □

Next, we introduce another robustness metric for CaTL+, called exponential robustness. Using exponential robustness makes the optimization process for control synthesis easier. We will compare it with traditional robustness and discuss its advantages after we formally define it.

2) Exponential robustness: We use $\eta ( \mathbf { s } , \varphi , t )$ and $\eta ( \mathbf { S } , \Phi , t )$ to denote the exponential robustness of the inner and outer logic. As discussed earlier, we only need to define the robustness for conjunction and task. Consider the conjunction over M subformulas with robustness $\eta _ { 1 } , \dots , \eta _ { M } .$ . Similar to [18], we first define an effective robustness measure, denoted by $\eta _ { i } ^ { c o n j } , i = 1 , . . . , M$ conj , for each subformula:
