level of the offline data. Noisy offline data are comparable to parametric uncertainty in model-based MHE (see, e.g., [34], [35]), since the Hankel matrices in (9) encode an implicit, uncertain “model” of the system.

One inherent drawback of the applied proof technique is that the state estimation bound depends on the a-priori upper bound of the offline collected noise, which is more conservative than the actual noise levels $\varepsilon _ { x } ^ { d }$ and $\varepsilon _ { y } ^ { d } .$ This can be explained by the design of the cost function (9d) which considers the a-priori upper bounds of the offline collected noise. Hence, these bounds influence the final state estimation error bounds.

As is also the case in many model-based MHE stability results, the here applied proof technique in general leads to conservative bounds. Additionally, Theorem 2 guarantees the existence of a minimal horizon length $L _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ such that the state estimation error is bounded. This minimal horizon length $L _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ can be computed numerically by solving for the smallest L such that (47) in the proof of Theorem 2 holds. A (more conservative) analytic expression for $L _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ can also be found, namely by bounding $\tilde { P } _ { 0 }$ as defined below (43) with an expression independent of the horizon length L.

Remark 3: In case of noise-free offline data, $\mathrm { i . e . , } \overline { { \varepsilon } } _ { x } ^ { d } = \overline { { \varepsilon } } _ { y } ^ { d } =$ 0, we would not consider $\sigma ^ { x }$ in the constraints (9b) and in the cost function (9a). Furthermore, no regularization of α is required in the cost function. The final state estimation error bounds are similar, but obviously with $\gamma ( 0 ) = 0$ and modified gains, compare [20] for details. In this nominal case, the proof technique is closer to the model-based MHE proof techniques, so that none of the adaptions mentioned below Theorem 2 are necessary.

Remark 4: Throughout this work, we do not consider process noise, i.e., noise in the state dynamics of (8). Process noise is usually considered by an additional term w(t) added to the state equation (8a), resulting in

$$x (t + 1) = A x (t) + B u (t) + w (t) \tag {14a}\tilde {y} (t) = C x (t) + D u (t) + v (t). \tag {14b}$$
