Remark 9. With Theorems 1-6, we establish general prescribed-time coordination control results for singleintegrator CANs without and with external disturbances under arbitrary fixed signed digraphs. Our results significantly improve and extend the results of [22], where the problems of prescribed-time bipartite consensus and interval bipartite consensus for nominal single-integrator CANs over signsymmetric signed digraphs were investigated, in four aspects: 1) the sign-symmetry requirement upon signed digraphs is relaxed; 2) the limitation that the design of control protocols relies upon the global information of the interaction topology is removed; 3) the prescribed-time stability and bipartite containment control problems are addressed; and 4) the external disturbances are taken into account.

Parallel to Corollaries 1-5, we have

Corollary 6. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46), and let G be undirected and connected. Then, the CAN (2) achieves

1) prescribed-time signed-average consensus in the prespecified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s } , i f \mathcal { G }$ is structurally balanced.   
2) prescribed-time stability in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s } , i f \mathcal { G }$ is structurally unbalanced.

Corollary 7. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46). Let G be strongly connected with its edge weights all positive. Then, the CAN (2) reaches prescribed-time consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s }$ .

Corollary 8. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46). Let G be quasi-strongly connected and structurally balanced. Then, the CAN (2) achieves prescribed-time bipartite consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s }$ .

Corollary 9. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46). Let G be quasi-strongly connected with its edge weights all positive. Then, the CAN (2) achieves prescribedtime consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s }$ .
