Proof. [Sketch] This follows from standard derivations. Note that $\partial \mathcal { A } ^ { e x p } / \partial \eta _ { m i n }$ depends on all $\eta _ { i } ^ { c o n j } , i = 1 , . . . , M .$ and $\partial \eta ( { \bf S } , \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle , t ) / \partial \eta _ { j _ { m } }$ depends on all ηjk $\eta _ { j _ { k } } ^ { t a s k } , k = 1 , \ldots , n .$ □

The mask-eliminating property of exponential robustness tells us that the increase of any component in conjunction or task results in the increase of the overall robustness.

Remark 1. By standard derivations, it can also be proved that, $\partial \mathcal { A } ^ { e x p } / \partial \eta _ { m i n } ~ > ~ \partial \mathcal { A } ^ { e x p } / \partial \eta _ { i } , ~ \forall \eta _ { i } ~ \neq ~ \eta _ { m i n } .$ The further $\eta _ { i }$ is from $\eta _ { m i n } ,$ the smaller the partial derivative will be. Meanwhile, $\partial \eta ( \mathbf { S } , \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle , t ) / \partial \eta _ { j _ { m } } \ \geq$ $\partial \eta ( \mathbf { S } , \langle \varphi , c , m \rangle , t ) / \partial \eta _ { j k } , \forall k \neq m$ . The further $\eta _ { j _ { k } }$ is from $\eta _ { j _ { m } }$ , the smaller the partial derivative will be. This is helpful because $\eta _ { m i n }$ and $\eta _ { j _ { m } }$ are the most critical components which decide the satisfaction of the formula.

Remark 2. The exponential robustness for conjunction itself forms a novel robustness of STL, which has desired properties including soundness and mask-eliminating (the conjunction satisfies (14)). Other robustness metrics including Arithmetic-Geometric Mean (AGM) robustness [19] and learning robustness [18] are also sound and partially solve the masking problem, but none of them satisfy the maskeliminating property (as shown in Fig. 3). The smooth max-min robustness from [5], [6] has the mask-eliminating property, but loses soundness (in a necessary and sufficient sense). To the best of our knowledge, exponential robustness is the first that satisfies both of these two properties. Sample behaviors of $\mathcal { A } ^ { e x p } ( \eta _ { 1 } , \eta _ { 2 } )$ for different $\eta _ { 1 }$ and η2 are depicted in Fig. 3. We can see that traditional and AGM robustness have 0 partial derivatives and learning robustness has negative partial derivatives at some points, while smooth max-min robustness violates soundness.
