Case 3: An omniscient perfect defender. The final defender model is an ideal "perfect" defender that not only has much more sensing capabilities than the attacker with perfect state estimation, but also knows the attacker model, i.e., the associated encoding and decoding schemes and modalities. In this case, the roles are reversed as an attacker has been exposed and needs to maintain confidentiality of the exfiltrated data. Obviously, a defender could simply take the system offline if the utility of the system is not critical and if it has a means to remotely control the device, i.e., only a subset of the device’s remotely controlled variables have been compromised. But in a honeypot scenario–i.e., where a defender is attempting to discover more information about the attack–the exfiltrated data can reveal the intent of the attacker along with other sensitive semantic information. From a cryptographic perspective, an attacker can leverage two "secrets": (1) standard cryptographic techniques embedded in the encoding software payload and (2) the location and sampling parameters of the decoding sensor. In this paper, we focus on the latter solution in which the location of a sensor can hide the semantic meaning of data being encoded. Although the design of a cryptographic mechanism within the software payload is outside of the scope of this paper, such an approach has several security and engineering challenges to ensure the semantic information being encoded into the physical actuation is sufficiently secured. If a defender can recover the device, static and dynamic analysis techniques can be used to reverse engineer some of the semantic information, e.g., combining static binary analysis with the dynamic behavioral analysis of the encoder when given certain inputs or environmental conditions [37].

We now present a generalized decoding mechanism for these encoding schemes.
