We denote the online measured inputs and outputs from time $t - L$ up to time $t - 1$ by $\boldsymbol { u } _ { [ t - L , t - 1 ] }$ and $\tilde { y } _ { [ t - L , t - 1 ] } ,$ respectively. The estimated state sequence from time $t - \dot { L }$ up to time $t ,$ estimated at time $t ,$ is denoted by $\overline { { x } } _ { [ - L , 0 ] } ( t ) : =$ $[ \overline { { x } } ( t - L | t ) ^ { \top } , \ldots , \overline { { x } } ( t | t ) ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ . Similarly, the estimated fitting error from time $t \mathrm { ~ - ~ } L$ up to time $t \mathrm { ~ - ~ } 1$ , estimated at time t, is written as $\sigma _ { [ - L , - 1 ] } ^ { y } ( t )$ . We introduce the fitting error $\sigma _ { \lceil - L , - 1 \rceil } ^ { y } ( t )$ in the optsurements ization problem since the noisy onlinemight not be in the span of the offline $\tilde { y }$ collected outputs $y ^ { d }$ (similar to data-driven MPC, where the future predicted outputs might not be in the span of the offline collected noisy data [11], [12]). Since the offline collected state data is also noisy, we consider a slack variable $\sigma ^ { x }$ in the last block row of (9b). Without $\sigma ^ { x }$ , we cannot necessarily guarantee that the estimated state sequence respects the constraints (9c). The left-hand side of (9b) contains the Hankel matrices (of depth L or $L + 1 )$ of the offline collected inputs, outputs, and states. The variable $u ^ { d }$ stands for the offline collected input data and X for the state constraint set. As usual in MHE [26], [27], we can incorporate knowledge about the estimated state sequence in form of state constraints in order to improve the estimation performance, compare (9c). These constraints are usually inherently satisfied by the system states such as, e.g., nonnegativity constraints of concentrations in a chemical reactor or serum hormone concentrations. In the cost function (9d), we consider four terms. First, the prior weighting, which is defined as

$$\Gamma (\overline {{{x}}} (t - L | t)) := | \overline {{{x}}} (t - L | t) - \hat {x} (t - L) | _ {P} ^ {2} \rho^ {L}, \tag {10}$$

for a weighting matrix P and the same discount factor $\rho \in$ (0, 1). The prior weighting penalizes the difference between

1For t < L, replace each L in (9) by t, i.e., take all available measurements into account.
