# B. Threat model

The threat model has two components: the compromised edge device that is encoding sensitive information into physical actuation, and an adversarial observer that is decoding the encoded actuation.

Compromised software model. We assume that an attacker has compromised the edge device in such a way in which the attacker has full control of one or more physical actuators of the device. We also assume that the attacker has access to the physical dynamics of the edge device such that an attacker can model the state estimator along with an estimated noise model for the device. Such assumptions have been in used in prior cyber-physical state estimation attacks as these models can be practically obtained [11]. However, unlike previous cyberphysical system attacks, we do not assume that the attacker can report false system states to the supervisory controller as the mechanism that reports the sensed system state may be located on a different chip than the exploited software module, e.g., an attacker who has compromised the GPIO microcontroller may not be able to compromise the reported values of a separate GPS chip that is reporting the location.

Enhanced adversarial observer model. For our enhanced adversarial observer, we simply assume that an adversary may be able to “zoom" in on the edge device to observe finegrained observable physical characteristics that would not be observable to a normal human observer. To formalize the adversary model, we place both the attacker and the defender in a control systems context.
