# A. Robustness-Based Optimization

Consider the map shown in Fig. 1. The control constraints $\mathcal { U } _ { g }$ and $\mathcal { U } _ { a }$ for both ground and aerial vehicles are set to $[ - 1 , 1 ] \times [ - 1 , 1 ]$ ]. We used $l ^ { 2 } .$ -norm as the cost function in (15), i.e., $C ( \mathbf { u } _ { j } ) = \| \mathbf { u } _ { j } \| _ { 2 }$ . Let $\gamma = 1 0 0 0$ , satisfying (16).

We first applied CMA-ES followed by SQP to solve Pb. 1. Fig. 4a shows the resulting individual trajectories for each agent. Agents’ positions at some important time points are shown in Fig. 5. The resulting team trajectory satisfies the specification Φ. Note that the agents do not need to stay in a region at the same time to satisfy a task like $\Phi _ { 1 } = \langle \mathbf { F } _ { [ 0 , 8 ] } s \in C .$ , “Delivery”, 6i or $\Phi _ { 2 } = \langle \mathbf { F } _ { [ 0 , 2 5 ] } s \in$ $V _ { 1 } , \ ^ { \mathrm { { * } } } D e { l i v e r y ^ { \mathrm { { * } } } } , \ 3 \rangle \wedge \langle { \bf { F } } _ { [ 0 , 2 5 ] } s \in V _ { 2 } , \ ^ { \mathrm { { * } } } D e l i v e r y ^ { \mathrm { { * } } } , \ 3 \rangle$ . In fact, on the premise of satisfying $\Phi _ { 1 }$ , the two aerial vehicles depart from region C to inspect the bridge before all the ground vehicles reach region C. Moreover, both villages $V _ { 1 }$ and $V _ { 2 }$ are visited by 4 agents though the requirement is $^ { 3 , }$ which makes the exponential robustness higher.

We compare the result with using traditional robustness in Pb. 1. After the same number of iterations as the exponential robustness, the resulting trajectories using traditional robustness are shown in Fig.4b. The specification is also satisfied, but the agents have many unnecessary motions, and they do not arrive at the centers of the regions. In addition, $V _ { 1 }$ and $V _ { 2 }$ are visited by exactly 3 agents. There are two reasons: (1) the objective function with traditional robustness is hard to optimize; (2) traditional robustness only considers the most critical points, so many behaviors are masked. When using exponential robustness, more agents reach the centers of the regions, and each center is visited for more time points.
