Case 1: Local autonomy and estimation. If a state variable’s associated control loop is locally autonomous to the edge device, i.e., there is no feedback control or estimation mechanism from a higher fidelity external entity, then an attacker essentially has little to no inhibitions with respect to stealthiness and can manipulate any aspect of the system as long as the utility of the application is maintained. For instance, in Figure 4, the estimation-free trajectory scenario shows how an attacker may encode data into the path from a starting ("Start") XY-coordinate to an ending ("End") XYcoordinate. Such an attack would need to ensure that the utility of the function is maintained, e.g., that the encoding will have a mean noise of zero while ensuring that it reaches a distance within an error bound before the next sample. This also implies that the associated perturbations will not cause any collateral threshold violations for other states being estimated. And although this example shows the path trajectory between two sampled points as the physical channel of choice, any other cyber-physical channel that depends on the associated physical variables can also be utilized by an attacker, e.g., the acoustic noise of the stepper motors during the path trajectory. In any case, the attacker may engineer an encoding scheme that will transmit the data while ensuring the utility function’s integrity is maintained. However, encoding data becomes more difficult for subsequent cases where the state variable is being estimated.
