Proof. Since the edge weights of $\mathcal { G }$ are all positive, it is clear that ${ \mathcal { L } } = { \mathcal { M } } \left( { \mathcal { L } } \right)$ and $\mathcal { G } _ { L }$ is structurally balanced. Noting that $\mathcal { L } = \mathcal { M } \left( \mathcal { L } \right)$ and $\mathcal { M } \left( \mathcal { L } \right) 1 _ { N } = 0$ , we have from (12) that $\mathcal { L } _ { F L } 1 _ { K } + \mathcal { L } _ { F } 1 _ { N - K } = 0$ , which, by the first conclusion of Lemma 7, implies

$$\mathcal {L} _ {F} ^ {- 1} \mathcal {L} _ {F L} 1 _ {K} = - 1 _ {N - K}. \tag {27}$$

When $K \geq 2 ,$ , it follows from the above proof of the first conclusion of Theorem 2 that (20) and (22) hold. Recalling that $\mathcal { G } _ { L }$ is structurally balanced, we know that $G _ { L } = I _ { K }$ or $G _ { L } = - I _ { K }$ . This, together with (20), (22), and (27), implies that

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \lim _ {t \to T _ {1}} X = 1 _ {N} c \\ X = 1 _ {N} c, \forall t \geq T _ {1}, \end{array} \right. \text {or} \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \lim _ {t \to T _ {1}} X = - 1 _ {N} c \\ X = - 1 _ {N} c, \forall t \geq T _ {1} \end{array} \right.
$$

holds.

When $K = 1$ , there hold $X _ { L } \equiv X _ { L } \left( 0 \right) , \forall t \ge 0$ and (24) from the above proof of the first conclusion of Theorem 2. Using (27), we have $- \mathcal { L } _ { F } ^ { - 1 } \mathcal { L } _ { F L } = 1 _ { N - 1 }$ . This, together with (24), leads to

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \lim _ {t \to T _ {1}} X _ {F} = 1 _ {N - 1} X _ {L} (0), \\ X _ {F} = 1 _ {N - 1} X _ {L} (0), \forall t \geq T _ {1}. \end{array} \right.
$$

Therefore, it follows that

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \lim _ {t \to T _ {1}} X = 1 _ {N} X _ {L} (0), \\ X _ {F} = 1 _ {N} X (0), \forall t \geq T _ {1}. \end{array} \right.
$$

Based on the above proof, we can see that the prescribedtime consensus of the nominal CAN (3) is achieved in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 }$ . This completes the proof. □

Remark 3. Corollary 4 holds for arbitrary quasi-strongly connected traditional unsigned digraph G , regardless of whether it contains one root or more than one root. In addition,

Corollary 4 contains as a special case the classical prescribedtime consensus tracking result in Reference [29] for singleintegrator traditional networks under quasi-strongly connected unsigned digraph having exactly one root.
