It should be pointed out that all of the PTCC results above are obtained under somewhat restrictive requirements on the topology graph or the topology subgraph among followers, such as sign-symmetry [22]–[25], undirected connectivity [21], [28], or strong connectivity [26], [27]. Until now, the PTCC problems of CANs under general strongly, quasi-strongly, and weakly connected signed digraphs without any hypotheses on their sign patterns remain open to our best knowledge. On the other hand, it is recognized that in practical applications, the agents are inevitably affected by various external disturbances, which could cause performance degradation or failure of coordination control if not well dealt with. Therefore, it is necessary to further take external disturbances into consideration.

Motivated by the foregoing discussions, this research deals with the PTCC problems for single-integrator CANs with external disturbances under arbitrary static strongly, quasistrongly, and weakly connected signed digraphs, without imposing any structural constraints. Inspired partly by the prescribed-time distributed control approach introduced in Reference [29], a class of fully distributed control strategy is first proposed for PTCC of disturbance-free normal singleintegrator CANs under any fixed signed digraphs. Then, a novel second-order prescribed-time sliding mode control protocol is developed to achieve robust PTCC for single-integrator CANs subject to external disturbances on the basis of the proposed control protocol for the nominal single-integrator CANs. The key novelty and contributions of this article are as follows.

1) A novel unified design and analysis framework is provided for PTCC of single-integrator CANs with any fixed topologies. Furthermore, a second-order sliding mode based design framework is presented to address the robust PTCC problems with bounded external disturbances. To our best knowledge, it is the first effort to handle the coordination control problems with uniformly assignable convergence time for single-integrator CANs in the presence or absence of exogenous perturbations under arbitrary fixed signed digraphs, without imposing any structural constraints.
