# 1 Introduction

In recent years, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have been receiving significant interest due to their applicability in various fields from transportation and agriculture to military and space exploration [1–3]. The key to the success of UAV applications lies in control techniques that drive the UAV to reach its desired trajectory and maintain its stability in conditions subject to disturbances such as load variation or wind gut. For quadrotor UAVs, it is essential to control their attitude since it decides their maneuver, i.e., the UAV changes its position and orientation by changing its attitude. Since the dynamic model of quadrotor UAVs is nonlinear with six degrees of freedom but having only four independent inputs, it is an underactuated system [4]. Besides, system constraints are often required to meet the physical limits of the UAV. Therefore, designing controllers for quadrotor UAVs is a challenging problem that requires sufficient investigation.

In the literature, linear control methods such as the proportional-integralderivative (PID) and linear-quadratic-regulator (LQR) controllers are among the most popular methods used for UAVs [5–7]. In [8], the PID, LQR, and state feedback controllers are used to control the attitude of a UAV with performance sufficient for several tasks. Combining linear controllers with an adaptive method is another approach to improve the tracking performance [9, 10]. In [9], a fuzzy approach is used to automatically adjust the control parameters of a PID controller. In [10], the fuzzy PID method is combined with an iterative learning controller to deal with under-actuated dynamics and strong coupling characteristics of the quadrotor. While these approaches can enhance the performance of standard PID controllers, they require linearization, which affects the control performance when the UAV operates in its nonlinear regions.
