# 5.3. One-Dimensional Signed Optimal Transport

We now look at measures on R which not only have finite mass, measure and moment, but also the property of finite-length signature, as defined by

Definition 10. A signed measure a is said to have finite-length signature if it has finite mass and can be decomposed into $\textstyle a = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } a ^ { i }$ for some $n ,$ and the $a ^ { i }$ measures are mutually singular with support contained in an interval $( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ]$ , with $p _ { 0 } = - \infty$ and $p _ { n } = \infty$ and each $a ^ { i }$ is equal to either $a ^ { + } \ \ u { p } _ { ( \ p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ] } \ \mathrm { o r } \ - a ^ { - } \ \ u { p } _ { ( \ p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ] }$ . We further require that the measure $a ^ { i }$ has opposite sign to the measures $a ^ { i - 1 }$ and $a ^ { i + 1 }$ when they exist. The signed measure a then has signature $\left( z _ { 1 } , . . . , z _ { n } \right)$ with $z _ { i } : = \int _ { p _ { i - } } ^ { p _ { i } }$ −1 da. The intervals $( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ]$ are called the signature intervals of a.

The signature of a measure is meant to encapsulate the order of the positive and negative mass of the measure. It has the following properties:

1. $\textstyle \int _ { \mathbb { R } } d a = \sum _ { j } z _ { j }$   
2. $\textstyle \int _ { \mathbb { R } } d \alpha = \sum _ { j } \| z _ { j } \|$   
3. $\textstyle \int _ { - \infty } ^ { p _ { i } } d a = \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { i } z _ { j }$

We now rephrase Lemma 1 in the context of signed measures with the same signature.

Lemma 2. Let α and $\beta$ be positive measures coming from signed measures a and b that both have the same signature $( z _ { i } ) _ { i = 1 } ^ { n }$ and with signature intervals $( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ]$ and $( q _ { i - 1 } , q _ { i } ]$ ]. Then the support of the optimal plan $\gamma$ is contained in

$$\cup_ {i = 1} ^ {n} \left(p _ {i - 1}, p _ {i} \right] \times \left(q _ {i - 1}, q _ {i} \right].$$

With this lemma, we can show that any two signed measures with the same signature can be sent to one another by the kernel generated by the coupling between the absolute value measures.

Theorem 13. Let a and b be signed measures with the same finite-length signature $\left( z _ { 1 } , . . . , z _ { n } \right)$ and let $\alpha : = \| a \|$ , and $\beta : = \ \| b \|$ be their absolute value measures with appropriate finite moments. Let $\gamma$ be the optimal coupling between α and $\beta ,$ and $K ^ { \gamma }$ the kernel associated to $\gamma$ . Then $K ^ { \gamma }$ sends a to b.
