We evaluate a defender model under the three aforementioned attack cases for our experimental setup. For the first case, the drone is tasked to execute a constant hover at 0.5 meters. The attacker encodes the data into the yaw variable about a fixed position. For the second case, we allow the defender to monitor both the position and yaw variable of the drone. Because the defender would be able to easily detect a change in yaw for a stationary hovering case, the drone is tasked to fly in a circle approximately 1 meter radius at 0.5 meters from ground level. In the third case, the drone is tasked to hover again, but now the attacker exfiltrates data with an asynchronous and more challenging encoding scheme to highlight alternative means of stealthiness in the face of a perfect defender.

The attacker generally uses two encoding schemes: The first scheme is used in scenarios one and two.

Encoded Bit 1 Attacker yaws drone approximately 5 degrees counter-clockwise from start. Attacker yaws back to reference to complete the transmission.   
Encoded Bit 0 Attacker yaws drone approximately 5 degrees clockwise. Attacker yaws back to reference to complete the transmission.

To evaluate the feasibility of decoding the cyber-physical encoded data, we utilized video recordings of replays from the Optitrack system. The recordings were taken at 30 frames per second, and zoomed-in simulates an enhanced observer as shown in Figure 8. Similar to the ICS scenario, relative angles were established between the markers to track the system state for data exfiltration.

Baselines with no attacker perturbation were first found for both the hover and circle scenarios. For the hover scenario, ambient noise levels were seen to be small. For the circle (surveillance) scenario, the drone conducted ten circles with no attacker perturbation for ground truth. Figure 10 depicts the surveillance loop of the drone, and Figure 9 shows the baseline position error and yaw of the drone as it completes 10 circles with no attacker perturbation. Furthermore, Figure 9 details five segments per each subplot, depicting the respective amount of position error or yaw as the drone navigates two full circle paths, resets and starts again. We observe the XYZ position error variances are .00123, .00101, and .0001 m2, for the case of no attacker, respectively.
