# 1. Introduction

A multi-agent system (MAS) is a collection of independent systems (agents) coupled via the pursuit of a common goal. [ In large-scale MASs the information exchange between agents might be costly. As such, it is commonly limited to a subset of agents, known as neighbors. Control laws that use only information from neighboring agents are called distributed.

This work studies a class of distributed control laws, where only relative measurements are exchanged between neighbors. In other words, each agent has access only to the difference between its output and that of each of its neighbours. Such control laws are called diffusive and systems controlled by them are known as diffusively coupled. Diffusive control laws are common in the MAS literature. Relative sensing appears naturally in MAS tasks, where absolute measurements are hard to obtain, such as space and aerial exploration and sensor localization, see (Smith and Hadaegh, 2005; Khan et al., 2009; Zelazo and Mesbahi, 2011b) and the references therein. The consensus and synchronization problems are well-known examples of diffusively coupled systems (Olfati-Saber et al., 2007; Wieland et al., 2011).

However, diffusively-coupled systems behave poorly when affected by disturbances and noise. Measurement noise rapidly deteriorates performance (Zelazo and Mesbahi, 2011a, §III-A) and even dynamic controllers can hardly attenuate disturbances (Ding, 2015). To cope with the difficulties, different relaxing assumptions are assumed. Some allow for non-relative state (Yucelen and Egerstedt, 2012) or output (Mo and Guo, 2019) measurements, while others employ an undisturbed leader (Ding, 2015) or impose limitations even on bounded disturbances (Bürger and De Persis, 2015, Prop. 5). Despite these different assumptions, if they fail, the resulting trajectories exhibit certain common traits that can be associated with instability. These traits can be illustrated by the classical consensus protocol, considered below for a set of integrator agents and with a static interaction network.
