Example 4. Consider a system with 𝜈 = 2 agents

$$
P _ {1} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} s / (s + 1) & 0 \\ 1 / s & 1 \end{array} \right] \quad \text { and } \quad P _ {2} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 / s & 0 \\ 1 & s / (s + 1) \end{array} \right]
$$

(both are second order). In this case there is only one edge. Select

$$
K _ {\mathrm{e}} (s) = K _ {\mathrm{e}, 1} (s) = - \frac {1}{3} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 2 / s \end{array} \right].
$$

It is then a matter of routine calculations to see that $S , T _ { \mathrm { d } }$ , and $T _ { \mathrm { c } }$ are stable, each having $( s + 2 ) ( 2 s + 1 ) ^ { 2 } ( 3 s + 1 )$ as the lowest common denominator of its entries. However, $T ( s )$ has a pole at the origin in addition, rendering the whole $T _ { 4 }$ unstable.

Moreover, it may even happen that canceled dynamics of $P$ are not excited by the (load) disturbance $d _ { u }$ , but rather only by $d _ { y }$ .

Example 5. Consider a system with 𝜈 = 2 agents, yet again, now with the second order

$$
P _ {1} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} s / (s + 1) & 1 / s \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right], \quad P _ {2} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 / s & 1 \\ 0 & s / (s + 1) \end{array} \right]
$$

and the edge controller from Example 4. It can be calculated that in this case $T , T _ { \mathrm { d } } .$ , and $T _ { \mathrm { c } }$ are stable, each having $( s + 2 ) ( 2 s +$ $1 ) ^ { 2 } ( 3 s + 1 )$ ) as the lowest common denominator of its entries. The sensitivity $S ( s )$ has an additional pole at the origin. This implies that the responses to $d _ { u }$ are all stable, whereas the response of 𝑦 to $d _ { y }$ is unstable.

Remark 3. Stabilizability conditions for the setup in Fig. 3 would be substantially different from those in Theorem 3.1 or Proposition 4.1. If we consider the class of LTI edge controllers $K _ { \mathrm { e } } .$ , then the stabilizability problem boils down to the question of existing decentralized fixed modes (DFMs) in $P _ { \mathrm { ~ e ~ } }$ defined by (6), see (Davison et al., 2020, Sec. 2.2). If controllers are allowed to be periodically time-varying, then even this condition is not restrictive (Anderson and Moore, 1981). However, this analysis has a snag in that the very construction of $P _ { \mathrm { ~ e ~ } }$ might have unstable cancellations. For example, return to the case of 𝜈 = 3 integrator agents with an indirect star interconnection graph discussed in Section 2. In this case $P ( s ) = ( 1 / s ) I _ { 3 }$ has three poles at the origin, whereas

$$
P _ {\mathrm{e}} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l} 1 & 0 & - 1 \\ 0 & 1 & - 1 \end{array} \right] \left(\frac {1}{s} I _ {3}\right) \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \\ - 1 & - 1 \end{array} \right] = \frac {1}{s} \left[ \begin{array}{l l} 2 & 1 \\ 1 & 2 \end{array} \right]
$$

is a second-order transfer function. This $P _ { \mathrm { ~ e ~ } }$ is easily stabilizable by decentralized edge controllers, e.g. by $K _ { \mathrm { e } } = - I _ { 2 }$ . But this controller cannot see the canceled unstable mode,which remains a part of the closed-loop system.
