# D. Communication Protocol

There are several domain-specific design parameters that need to be tuned for particular CPS. Regardless of whether an attacker is using cryptographic mechanisms or not, the goal should be to maximize both the rate of transmission as well as the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR).

Channel Capacity and Bit Error Rate. There are several factors that determine the channel capacity of data exfiltration.

Physical system constraints. The rate of encoding into a physical system is limited by the actuation speed of the system, which is determined by the system’s kinematics. Faster encoding speeds require greater forces which the system may not support. Additionally, physical systems may have a minimum precision with which motions can be made consistently (eg. a single motor step is 1.8 for the robotic arm°).   
The observer’s frame rate and resolution. The channel capacity is also limited by the capabilities of the observer. For a camera, the frame rate is analogous to the sampling rate, and we found that for the robotic arm, at least 3 frames were necessary to identify an encoded motion consistently. Additionally, the resolution of the observer is correlated with the encoding: a higher resolution means that smaller motions can be detected reliably, allowing a greater encoding rate within the constraints of the physical system.   
Maintaining stealth. In a scenario with a defender performing state estimation on the system, a faster encoding produces more noticeable actuations, increasing the likelihood of revealing the exfiltration process to the defender.

Table I shows the bit error rates for decoding in the robotic arm scenario. As we approached the limits of the encoding rate we found that the decoding accuracy decreases significantly due to increased system vibration coupled with fewer frames per encoded bit. We now briefly discuss design considerations for error checking. We now briefly discuss mechanisms that can be utilized to maintain the integrity of the data.
