# REFERENCES

[1] R.
E.
Kalman, “A new approach to linear filtering and prediction problems,” Transactions of the ASME–Journal of Basic Engineering, vol.
82, pp.
35–45., 1960.
[2] D.
Luenberger, “An introduction to observers,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
16, no.
6, pp.
596–602, 1971.
[3] J.
B.
Rawlings, D.
Q.
Mayne, and M.
Diehl, Model predictive control: theory, computation, and design, 2nd ed.
Nob Hill Publishing Madison, WI, 2020.
[4] C.
V.
Rao, J.
B.
Rawlings, and J.
H.
Lee, “Constrained linear state estimation—a moving horizon approach,” Automatica, vol.
37, no.
10, pp.
1619–1628, 2001.
[5] A.
Alessandri and M.
Awawdeh, “Moving-horizon estimation for discrete-time linear systems with measurements subject to outliers,” in 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2014, pp.
2591–2596.
[6] M.
Gharbi and C.
Ebenbauer, “Proximity moving horizon estimation for linear time-varying systems and a bayesian filtering view,” in 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
3208–3213.
[7] M.
Farina, G.
Ferrari-Trecate, and R.
Scattolini, “Distributed moving horizon estimation for linear constrained systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
55, no.
11, pp.
2462–2475, 2010.
[8] J.
C.
Willems, P.
Rapisarda, I.
Markovsky, and B.
L.
De Moor, “A note on persistency of excitation,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
54, no.
4, pp.
325–329, 2005.
[9] I.
Markovsky and P.
Rapisarda, “Data-driven simulation and control,” International Journal of Control, vol.
81, no.
12, pp.
1946–1959, 2008.
[10] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
3, pp.
909–924, 2019.
[11] J.
Coulson, J.
Lygeros, and F.
D ¨orfler, “Data-enabled predictive control: In the shallows of the DeePC,” in 2019 18th European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
307–312.
[12] J.
Berberich, J.
K ¨ohler, M.
A.
M ¨uller, and F.
Allg ¨ower, “Data-driven model predictive control with stability and robustness guarantees,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
4, pp.
1702–1717, 2020.
[13] I.
Markovsky and F.
D ¨orfler, “Behavioral systems theory in data-driven analysis, signal processing, and control,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
52, pp.
42–64, 2021.
[14] V.
G.
Lopez and M.
A.
