# C. Problem Statement

Consider a CAN consisting of $N \left( N \geq 2 \right)$ agents with dynamic given by

$$\dot {x} _ {k} (t) = u _ {k} (t) + d _ {k} (t), k \in \mathcal {I} _ {N}, \tag {2}$$

in which $u _ { k } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R } , x _ { k } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R }$ , and $d _ { k } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R }$ represent, respectively, the control input, the state, and the external disturbance of the kth agent. Suppose there is a known positive scalar $\delta \ \leq \ + \infty$ so that $| d _ { k } \left( t \right) | ~ \le ~ \delta , \forall k ~ \in ~ \mathcal { S } _ { N }$ . Letting $d _ { k } = 0 , k \in \mathcal S _ { N }$ , then the nominal CAN corresponding to (2) is obtained as

$$\dot {x} _ {k} (t) = u _ {k} (t), k \in \mathcal {I} _ {N}. \tag {3}$$

The interaction topology among the N agents is assumed to be fixed and modeled via a signed digraph $\mathcal { G } ,$ , with each node corresponding to an agent. Let the Laplacian and adjacency matrices of $\mathcal { G }$ be denoted as $\mathcal { L }$ and $\mathcal { W }$ , respectively. Notice that the results to be established for (2) and (3) can be easily extended to arbitrary high dimension by exploiting the Kronecker product. Hereinafter, the time variable t will be omitted whenever no confusions occur.

Following, e.g., References [1], [35], we call agent k a leader if its corresponding node $v _ { k }$ lies within some CSC of $\mathcal { G } ,$ , and call it a follower otherwise. Notice that this notion of leader contains the classical notion of leader referring to an isolated agent with no neighbors as a trivial case. Let us denote $\mathcal { L }$ and $\mathcal { F }$ as the sets of leaders and followers, respectively. Obviously, ${ \mathcal { L } } \cap { \mathcal { F } } = \emptyset$ and ${ \mathcal { L } } \cup { \mathcal { F } } = { \mathcal { S } } _ { N }$ . Without loosing generality, suppose the agents indexed by $1 , \ldots , K$ are leaders and the remaining agents are followers. It is easy to see that $1 ~ \le ~ K ~ \le ~ N$ and $K \ = \ N$ iff $\mathcal { G }$ is strongly connected. Further, K is equal to the number of roots in $\mathcal { G }$ and satisfies $1 \leq K < N$ if G is quasi-strongly connected.
