Assumption 4: The inputs u and the states x of the considered system (8) evolve in compact sets U and X˜, i.e, $u ( t ) \in \mathbb { U }$ and $x ( t ) \in \tilde { \mathbb { X } }$ , respectively.

Assumption 4 implies that the states of system (8) do not grow unboundedly. If necessary, a pre-stabilizing controller can be applied to system (8) to ensure that Assumption 4 holds. Furthermore, in most practical applications the control actuators have physical limits implying that one can find a compact set U, in which the inputs u evolve.

The main objective of this section is to show that the introduced robust data-driven MHE scheme in (9) is pRES with respect to the following definition.

Definition 3: Consider system (8) subject to disturbances $v \in \mathbb { V }$ . Moreover, consider noisy a priori output and state measurements as defined in (5) and (6), respectively. A state estimator is pRES if there exist constants $c _ { 1 } , \ c _ { 2 } \ \geq \ 1$ , $\lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } \in ( 0 , 1 )$ and a function $\gamma \in \mathcal { K }$ such that for all $x _ { 0 }$ , $\hat { x } ( 0 ) \in \tilde { \mathbb { X } } ,$ all $v \in \mathbb { V } .$ , and all $\overline { { \varepsilon } } _ { x } ^ { d } , \ : \overline { { \varepsilon } } _ { y } ^ { d } \geq 0$ the following is satisfied for all $t \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 } ;$ :

$$| x (t) - \hat {x} (t) |\leq c _ {1} | x _ {0} - \hat {x} (0) | \lambda_ {1} ^ {t} + \sum_ {\tau = 0} ^ {t} c _ {2} | v (t - \tau) | \lambda_ {2} ^ {\tau} + \gamma (\overline {{{{\varepsilon}}}} ^ {d}). \tag {13}$$

Definition 3 states that we can upper bound the differences between the true (unknown) states and the estimated states by means of (i) their difference in the initial conditions, (ii) the true measurement noise affecting the online output measurements, and (iii) a K function depending on $\overline { { \varepsilon } } ^ { d }$ in (7).

Furthermore, this definition states that smaller values for $\overline { { \varepsilon } } ^ { d }$ imply smaller state estimation error bounds. The main result of this paper is given by the following theorem.
