# 3.1. Proof of Theorem 3.1

We are now prepared to prove Theorem 3.1. Only the statement about the right coprime factor, i.e. (7a), is proved. The proof of (7b) follows by dual arguments.

The proof requires a technical result of Fuhrmann (1968), known as the matrix corona theorem, see also the proof of (Georgiou and Smith, 1993, Prop. 11) for a closer formulation.

Lemma 3.4. $H G \in H _ { \infty } ^ { n \times n }$ , then

$$G ^ {- 1} \in H _ {\infty} \iff \inf _ {s \in \bar {\mathbb {C}} _ {0}} \underline {{\sigma}} (G (s)) > 0.$$

It is readily seen that $M _ { P } : = \mathrm { d i a g } \{ M _ { i } \}$ and $N _ { P } : = \mathrm { d i a g } \{ N _ { i } \}$ are right coprime factors of $P = \mathrm { d i a g } \{ P _ { i } \}$ . Because any internally stabilizing 𝐾 in (4) is in effect stabilized by the plant, we only need to consider edge controllers for which 𝐾 admits coprime factorizations over $H _ { \infty }$ . So let $K = N _ { K } M _ { K } ^ { - 1 }$ for right coprime $M _ { K } , N _ { K } \in H _ { \infty }$ . By (4),

$$N _ {K} (s) = (E \otimes I _ {m}) K _ {\mathrm{e}} (s) (E ^ {\top} \otimes I _ {p}) M _ {K} (s).$$

Because $\mathbb { 1 } ^ { \top } E = 0$ , we have that $( \mathbb { 1 } ^ { \top } \otimes I _ { m } ) ( E \otimes I _ { m } ) = 0$ as well and, hence, $( \mathbb { T } ^ { \top } \otimes I _ { m } ) N _ { K } ( s ) = 0$ for all 𝑠 at which $K _ { \mathrm { e } } ( s )$ is finite. But $K _ { \mathrm { e } } ( s )$ is in the quotient field of $H _ { \infty }$ , meaning that the denominators of its entries are holomorphic in $\mathbb { C } _ { 0 }$ and, by (Rudin, 1987, Thm. 10.18), may have at most countable number of isolated zeros. As such, we can always find a region in $\mathbb { C } _ { 0 }$ in which $( \mathbb { T } ^ { \top } \otimes I _ { m } ) N _ { K } ( s ) = 0$ . But the latter implies that

$$(\mathbb {1} ^ {\top} \otimes I _ {m}) N _ {K} = 0,$$

by the same (Rudin, 1987, Thm. 10.18).

Now, return to the system in Fig. 2. It is readily verified that the closed-loop system $T _ { 4 }$ in (5) reads

$$
T _ {4} = \left[ \begin{array}{l} I \\ K \end{array} \right] (I - P K) ^ {- 1} \left[ \begin{array}{l l} I & P \end{array} \right] =: \left[ \begin{array}{l l} S & T _ {\mathrm{d}} \\ T _ {\mathrm{c}} & T \end{array} \right], \tag {8}
$$

where the blocks of $T _ { 4 }$ are the four fundamental closed-loop transfer functions. Straightforward algebra yields that

$$
T _ {4} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} M _ {K} & 0 \\ N _ {K} & 0 \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c c} M _ {K} & - N _ {P} \\ - N _ {K} & M _ {P} \end{array} \right] ^ {- 1}. \tag {9}
$$
