# A. The material system

The evolution of material micro-structures can be represented by two types of partial differential equations, i.e., the Allen-Cahn equation [24] representing the evolution of a non-conserved quantity, and the Cahn-Hilliard equation [25] representing the evolution of a conserved quantity. The Allen-Cahn equation has a general form of

$$\frac {\partial \phi}{\partial t} = - M (\frac {\partial F}{\partial \phi} - \gamma \nabla^ {2} \phi) \tag {1}$$

while the Cahn-Hilliard equation has the form

$$\frac {\partial \phi}{\partial t} = \nabla \cdot M \nabla (\frac {\partial F}{\partial \phi} - \gamma \nabla^ {2} \phi) \tag {2}$$

where $\phi \ : = \ : \phi ( \boldsymbol { x } , t )$ is called the ‘order parameter’, which is a spatially varying quantity. In Controls parlance, $\phi$ is the state of the system, and is infinite dimensional, i.e., a spatio-temporally varying function. It reflects the component proportion of each phase of material system. For a two-phase system studied in this work, $\phi = - 1$ represents one pure phase and $\phi = 1$ represent the other, while $\phi \in ( - 1 , 1 )$ stands for a combination state of both phases on the boundary interface between two pure phases; M is a parameter related to the mobility of material, which is assumed constant in this study; $F$ is an energy function with a non-linear dependence on φ; $\gamma$ is a gradient coefficient controlling the diffusion level or thickness of the boundary interface.

In essence, the Phase Field Method is one of gradient flow methods, which means the evolution process follows the path of steepest descent in an energy landscape starting from an initial state until arriving at a a local minimum. $\mathrm { S o } ,$ the behavior of micro-structures in phase field modeling highly depends on the selection of energy density function F. For instance, the double-well potential function owing to two minima at $\phi = \pm \ : 1$ and separated by a maximum at $\phi =$ 0 (as plotted in Fig. 2) will cause the field $\phi$ to separate into regions where φ $) \approx \pm \ 1$ , divided by the boundary interface, while the single-well potential function owing to a single minimum at $\phi = 0$ (see Fig. 2) predicts a gradual smoothing of any initial non-uniform φ field, yielding a uniform field with $\phi = 0$ in the long-time limit.
