# 4. Finite-dimensional agents

If the agents $P _ { i }$ are finite dimensional, the result of the previous section can be reformulated in a more insightful way. This is due to the ultimate connection between stability and pole locations, as well as clear definitions of cancellations in this case. So we proceed with assuming that all transfer functions $P _ { i } ( s )$ are real rational and proper $( \mathcal { R } _ { 1 }$ always holds then).

Let pdiri $( G , \lambda )$ and $\operatorname { p d i r } _ { 0 } ( G , \lambda )$ denote input and output direction of a pole 𝜆 in $G ( s )$ , see Appendix B for details and other related definitions. The result below reformulates the conditions of Theorem 3.1 via pole directions of agents.

Proposition 4.1. $H P _ { i } ( s )$ are real rational and proper, then (7a) and (7b) are equivalent to the existence of $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 }$ such that

$$\bigcap_ {i = 1} ^ {\nu} \mathrm{pdir} _ {\mathrm{i}} (P _ {i}, \lambda) \neq \{0 \} \tag {14a}$$

and

$$\bigcap_ {i = 1} ^ {\nu} \mathrm{pdir} _ {0} (P _ {i}, \lambda) \neq \{0 \}, \tag {14b}$$

respectively.

Proof. Because $\lambda \in \bar { \mathbb { C } } _ { 0 }$ is not a pole of $M _ { i } ( s )$ , Lemma B.2 applies and (7a) reads $\cap _ { i = 1 } ^ { \nu } \mathrm { z d i r } _ { 0 } ( M _ { i } , \lambda ) \ \ne \ \{ 0 \}$ . Then (14a) follows by Lemma B.3. The proof for (14b) is similar. 

In other words, for the system in Fig. 2 to not be stabilizable, the agents should not only have a common unstable pole, but also a common nontrivial direction of such a pole. Directions are obviously matched in the homogeneous and SISO cases addressed in Corollaries 3.2 and 3.3, respectively. But the MIMO heterogeneous case may be less trivial.

Example 2. Consider a system with $\nu = 2$ first-order agents

$$
P _ {1} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 / s & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right] \quad \text { and } \quad P _ {2} (s) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ \alpha \end{array} \right] \frac {1}{s} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & \beta \end{array} \right].
$$

Directions of their pole at the origin are

$$
\operatorname{pdir} _ {\mathrm{i}} (P _ {1}, 0) = \operatorname{pdir} _ {\mathrm{o}} (P _ {1}, 0) = \operatorname{Im} \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array} \right],
