This paper establishes a new interpretation of optimal transport through the use of Markov kernels, a special case of transition kernels. The Markov kernel framework enables a new approach to signed optimal transport that is distinct from those described in [3, 18, 25, 26, 27, 28]. We develop a path from standard optimal couplings to optimal transport kernels and show how the two interpretations are related. The interpretability between kernels and couplings enables current techniques that find optimal couplings to be re-purposed to make optimal transport kernels.

This perspective naturally leads to the treatment of signed optimal transport by sending a signed measure through an optimal transport kernel. The connections between the kernel and optimal couplings ensure that the signed optimal couplings retain the geometric information that makes optimal transport useful. This use of optimal transport kernels recreates the capability of transport maps, while retaining the ease and computational advantages of searching for an optimal coupling due to the connections between kernels and couplings.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we provide the necessary background on optimal transport. Section 3 presents results extending optimal couplings towards the goal of introducing Markov kernels for optimal transport and

Section 4 describes how we can use Markov kernels for optimal transport, including their connection to optimal couplings. Section 5 applies optimal transport kernels to signed measures, and provides additional background for one-dimensional optimal transport before considering one-dimensional signed optimal transport. Our work is summarized in Section 6.
