With $\ b { z } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q }$ as the sensor measurement vector received from the sensing instruments and $v ( t ) \in R ^ { q }$ representing a stochastic noise term, commonly regarded to be independent of the process noise w(t).

Such a set of non-linear system equations can be linearized about a known system equilibrium-point (or the system’s current state xˆ(t)) as: $\delta \boldsymbol { x } ( t ) \dot { } = \boldsymbol { x } ( t ) - \boldsymbol { \bar { x } } _ { e q } ( t )$ , with $\delta x ( \boldsymbol { t } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$

and expressed linearly as:

$$\delta x (t + 1) = A (t) \delta x (t) + B (t) \delta u (t) + G (t) w (t) \tag {3}$$

With $A ( t ) , B ( t ) , G ( t )$ possibly time varying (or timeinvariant). We consider $\bar { \boldsymbol { A } } ~ \in ~ \mathsf { \bar { R } } ^ { n \times n }$ to represent the state dynamics matrix, $B \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times p }$ , as the control input matrix, and $\dot { G } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times r }$ as a process-noise propagation matrix, respectively.

Using the dynamics models and on board measurement equipment, we can develop control structures and state estimators, possibly linear or non-linear in nature, to describe the attack or defense strategy of an adversary or defender. In constraining the system dynamics to a set of linearized propagation equations, when necessary, well-known estimators and controllers such as Kalman Filters and Linear Regulators can be applied to model simple and descriptive representations of the respective adversary and defender strategies in consideration. By subjecting the defender and attacker models to a control-theoretic perspective, we can provide provable measures, when necessary, over the various “blocks" of the system, i.e., the adversary, the defender, and the model dynamics which is referred to as the plant.

Figure 3 depicts a general system structure in which the aforementioned blocks are connected into a system representation. The goal of an attacker is to encode data into a physical covert channel while maintaining stealthiness. To define stealthiness, we first formalize the plant, adversary, and defender models as follows.
