In this paper, we show how an edge device’s physical actuation can be used as a covert channel to exfiltrate sensitive data. In particular, we introduce a cyber-physical encoding technique that maintains stealthiness against an entity who is monitoring the cyber-physical system via state estimation techniques. We begin by characterizing control system models for both an attacker and a defender in the same cyberphysical context. We empirically demonstrate how an attacker would maximize the rate of transmission while maintaining stealthiness with respect to the physical covert channel. This also implies that our approach maintains the utility of the cyber-physical application. For instance, to encode data into the actuation of a drone, our approach would encode data into the movement of the drone while ensuring that the drone completes its waypoint navigation correctly. This approach is analogous to prior attacks that focused on the semantic models of autonomous systems, e.g., cyber-physical attacks that target state-estimation techniques or adversarial machine learning techniques that target learned models.

We evaluate our attack on two exemplary cyber-physical systems: a robotic arm in the context of an industrial control system as well as a drone surveilling an area of interest. For each system, we encode the data across a variety of applications and evaluate the efficacy of each attack. We use computer vision techniques to observe the physical actuation and decode the encoded bits. We also evaluate each attack against defenders with varying levels of probabilistic certainty about the estimated system states, including a “perfect" defender that has access to the precise attacker model. We optimize our attacks against state-of-the-art state estimation techniques and show how we would maximize transmission rate for each case with respect to the state estimation noise. We further enumerate countermeasures that can be embedded into state estimation techniques as well as the associated control mechanisms.

Our contributions are summarized as follows:
