# I. INTRODUCTION

Due to their expressivity and similarity to natural languages, temporal logics, such as Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) [1] and Signal Temporal Logic (STL) [2], have been widely used to formalize specifications for control systems. Many recent works proposed methodologies to generate control strategies for dynamical systems from such specifications. Roughly, these works can be grouped in two categories. For specifications given in LTL and fragments of LTL, abstractions and automata-based synthesis have been shown to work for certain classes of systems with low-dimensional state spaces [3]. For temporal logics with semantics over real-valued signals, such as STL, control synthesis can be formulated as an optimization problem, which can be solved via Mixed Integer Programming (MIP) [4] or gradient-based methods [5], [6].

Planning and controlling multi-agent systems from temporal logic specifications is a challenging problem that received a lot of attention in recent years. In [7], the authors used distributed formal synthesis to allocate global task specifications expressed as LTL formulas to locally interacting agents with finite dynamics. Related works [8]–[10] proposed extensions to more realistic models and scenarios. The authors of

This work was partially supported by the NSF under grant IIS-2024606. DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited. This material is based upon work supported by the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering under Air Force Contract No. FA8702-15-D-0001. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.

1Wenliang Liu and Calin Belta are with Boston University, Boston, MA, USA wliu97@bu.edu, cbelta@bu.edu

2Kevin Leahy and Zachary Serlin are with MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington MA 02421, USA kevin.leahy@ll.mit.edu, zachary.serlin@ll.mit.edu

[11] used STL and Spatial Temporal Reach and Escape Logic (STREL) as specification languages to capture the connectivity constraints of a multi-robot team.
