where $X _ { F }$ and $E _ { F }$ are as previously defined. Substituting (28) into (7), we have

$$\dot {E} _ {L k} = - \left(\rho_ {1} + \rho_ {2} \frac {\dot {\varphi} (t , T _ {1})}{\varphi (t , T _ {1})}\right) \mathscr {L} _ {L k} E _ {L k}, 1 \leq k \leq m \tag {31}\dot {E} _ {F} = - \left(\rho_ {1} + \rho_ {2} \frac {\dot {\varphi} (t , T _ {1})}{\varphi (t , T _ {1})}\right) \left(\mathcal {L} _ {F} E _ {F} + \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {L} _ {F L k} E _ {L k}\right). \tag {32}$$

To proceed, we need the following lemma.

Lemma 9. [35] Let G be weakly connected with its Laplacian matrix $\mathcal { L }$ given by (28).

1) $\mathcal { L } _ { F }$ is a nonsingular H-matrix. In addition, there exists some positive diagonal matrix ΘF ∈ R(N−K)×(N−K) $\theta _ { F } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( N - K ) \times ( N - K ) }$ such that $\boldsymbol { \theta } _ { F } \boldsymbol { \mathcal { L } } _ { F } + \boldsymbol { \mathcal { L } } _ { F } ^ { \mathrm { T } } \boldsymbol { \theta } _ { F } \succ 0 .$ .   
2) Define $\begin{array} { r l r } { \varpi } & { { } = } & { \left[ \varpi _ { 1 } , \ldots , \varpi _ { m } \right] , } \end{array}$ , where $\begin{array} { r l } { \varpi _ { k } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $- \mathcal { L } _ { F } ^ { - 1 } \mathcal { L } _ { F L k } \mathbf { G } _ { k } 1 _ { N _ { k } }$ $\begin{array} { r l r } { { \bf G } _ { k } } & { { } \in } & { \mathbb { G } _ { N _ { k } } } \end{array}$ , then $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { m ^ { \star } } | \varpi _ { j k } | \le 1 f o r \ a l l \ 1 \le j \le N - K . } \end{array}$

The following theorem shows that for the CAN (3) under any weakly connected signed graph $\mathcal { G } .$ , the protocol (4) can guarantee the CAN to reach prescribed-time bipartite containment (resp., stability) in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 }$ , if at least one CSC of $\mathcal { G }$ is structurally balanced (resp., all the CSCs of $\mathcal { G }$ are structurally unbalanced).

Theorem 3. Consider the nominal CAN (3) under the control protocol (4), and let G be weakly connected. Then, the nominal CAN (3) achieves

1) prescribed-time bipartite containment in the prespecified finite time $T _ { 1 } , i f \mathcal { G }$ has at least one structurally balanced CSC.   
2) prescribed-time stability in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { 1 } ,$ if all the CSCs of G are structurally unbalanced.
