# E. Maintaining Imperceptibility

The final notion of the aforementioned attacks is maintaining imperceptibility in the face of a “human observer"– or an observer that may be monitoring the CPS through a particular modality or set of modalities from sensors equivalent to a human’s “sensors". This problem is analogous to the problem of adversarial machine learning where an attacker is introducing perturbations to a model’s input data while minimizing some loss function such that the system will misclassify the data sample while maintaining imperceptibility of the perturbations [33]. In this context, the perfect model of perceptibly is the associated decoding mechanism itself. In addition to maintaining stealthiness with respect to the state estimation model, an attacker will also minimize the encoded movements such that the decoding function will only work with a decoder that has a sufficient sensing granularity, e.g., a camera equipped with an appropriate focal length to pickup tiny movements of the robotic arm.

We propose the following simple scheme for maintaining imperceptibility. For a given attacker strength, it is desirable to encode information at the lowest SNR that the attacker can still decode reliably (eg. with an acceptable bit error rate). By definition, this minimizes the differentiation between signal and noise for any observer and results in the least conspicuous encoding. Additionally, the frequency and choice of encoding should be chosen carefully to closely mirror normal operating characteristics. That being said, determining these parameters may be impractical in certain situations. We now evaluate each of the aforementioned attacker-defender scenarios on a much more complex autonomous edge device.
