# 5.1. Signed Optimal Transport

In this section we denote signed measures with Latin letters, e.g. a, b and the associated positive absolute value measures either as kak, kbk or with Greek letters, i.e. α, β. Let $M ( X )$ denote the space of signed measures over a Polish space X. The class of signed measures that we focus on are those $a \in M ( X )$ with the following properties

1. $\textstyle \int _ { X } d a < \infty$ (finite integral),   
2. $\textstyle \int _ { X } d \alpha < \infty$ (finite mass),   
3. $\textstyle \int _ { X } c _ { X } ( x ) d \alpha ( x ) < \infty$ (finite moment).

Analogous requirements will hold for measures $b \in M ( Y )$ . We will typically consider the case when X and $Y$ are two copies of the same space, but continue to label them as X and Y for clarity. The requirements on the signed measures a and b ensure that there is an optimal transport coupling with finite cost between the corresponding positive measures α and $\beta$ .

We will be looking at optimal couplings between two positive measures that have the same mass, but are not necessarily probability measures as the total mass may no longer be 1. They must still satisfy the marginalization constraints and have c-CM support, but the marginals are no longer required to be probability measures.

Definition 8. A signed coupling g is an optimal signed coupling between the marginals a and $b ,$ which have finite integral, mass, and moment if it is equal to the product measure derived from aK for some optimal transport kernel K.

For two signed measures a and b to be connected by an optimal transport kernel, they must have the same integral. This is because if $b = a K$ , then

$$b (Y) = \int_ {X} K (x, Y) d a (x) = \int_ {X} d a (x),$$

since K is a Markov kernel and $K ( x , Y ) = 1$ for all $x \in X$ . While a and b do not need to have the same mass, we will treat this as the standard. Kernels which do not preserve mass are considered special.

A salient feature and restriction of the kernel based approach to signed optimal transport comes in the following theorem.

Theorem 10. Let a and b be two signed measures with equal mass and integral, and each with finite moment. Let $a = a ^ { + } - a ^ { - }$ and $b = b ^ { + } - b ^ { - }$ be the Jordan decompositions $o f$ a and b respectively. Then a and b are connected by an optimal transport kernel if and only if there are compatible optimal couplings $\gamma ^ { + }$ , between $a ^ { + }$ and $b ^ { + }$ , and $\gamma ^ { - }$ , between $a ^ { - }$ and $b ^ { - }$ .
