# 1. Introduction

The study of optimal transport has a long history dating from the 1781 work of Mong\`e in [21] which established what corresponds to the transport map formulation of the subject. Throughout optimal transport’s subsequent development, the problem has been rephrased multiple times, each time revealing a new facet of the theory and spurring new developments and applications. One particularly important example of this was Kantorovich’s reformulation of the problem in 1942 [13] which cast the problem in terms of joint probability measures by introducing the notion of the optimal coupling. This enabled optimal transport problems to be formulated as linear programming problems and made them computationally feasible.

In the 1990’s and early 2000’s multiple authors began to explore geometric structure in optimal transport and its connection to fluid dynamics [5, 6, 19, 22]. Entropic regularization and the Sinkhorn algorithm, [8], led to even more computational tractability and spurred work in applying optimal transport to image analysis, [23, 31]. Semidiscrete optimal transport limits the class of distributions considered and simplifies the dual-problem to optimal transport. These advantages fostered interest in new application domains and brought tools from computational geometry into the field [4, 9, 14, 15, 16, 17].

Brief introductions to optimal transport can be found in [1, 20, 29], while more thorough treatments are available in [2, 24, 30, 32, 33].

Recently there has been increased interest in signed optimal transport, which applies techniques from optimal transport to signed measures. Signed optimal transport in one dimension has already proven itself useful in estimating parameters for seismic imaging, [10, 11, 12], where multiple techniques were used to change the signed signal into a positive probability measure. Those techniques included splitting into components, exponentiating, and adding a large constant. However, such approaches for signed optimal transport have been application specific and consequently ad hoc and a more general theory for signed measures has yet to be established.
