Given a team of agents $\{ A _ { j } \} _ { j \in \mathcal { I } }$ , the team trajectory is defined as a set of pairs $\mathbf { S } = \{ ( \mathbf { s } _ { j } , C a p _ { j } ) \} _ { j \in \mathcal { I } }$ , which captures all the individual trajectories with the corresponding capabilities. Let $\mathcal { T } _ { c } = \{ j | c \in C a p _ { j } \}$ be the set of agent indices with capability c. Let $\mathbf { u } _ { j } = u _ { j } ( 0 ) \ldots u _ { j } ( H - 1 )$ be the sequence of controls for agent j.

Example. Consider an earthquake emergency response scenario. The workspace $s \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ is shown in Fig. 1. There are 4 ground vehicles $j \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 \}$ and 2 aerial vehicles $j \in$ $\{ 5 , 6 \}$ , totaling 6 robots indexed from $\mathcal { I } = \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 \}$ in the workspace. A river R runs through this area and a bridge B goes across the river. All ground vehicles are identical. The dynamics $f _ { j } , j \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 \}$ are given by

$$p _ {x, j} (t + 1) = p _ {x, j} (t) + v _ {j} (t) \cos \theta_ {j} (t),p _ {y, j} (t + 1) = p _ {y, j} (t) + v _ {j} (t) \sin \theta_ {j} (t), \tag {3}\theta_ {j} (t + 1) = \theta_ {j} (t) + \omega_ {j} (t),$$

where the state $x _ { j }$ is the 2D position and orientation $[ p _ { x , j } p _ { y , j } \theta _ { j } ] _ { \ l }$ , the control $u _ { j }$ is the forward and angular speed $[ v _ { j } \omega _ { j } ]$ , the state space $\mathcal { X } _ { j } ~ = ~ \mathcal { X } _ { g } ~ \subset ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ , the control space $\mathbf { \bar { \mathcal { U } } } _ { j } = \mathcal { U } _ { g } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ , the initial state $x _ { j } ( 0 )$ is a singleton randomly sampled in region $I n i t _ { g }$ with randomly sampled orientation $\theta _ { j } \in [ \frac { 1 } { 4 } \pi , \frac { 3 } { 4 } \pi ]$ . The function $l _ { j } ( x _ { j } ) =$ $[ p _ { x , j } p _ { y , j } ] = s _ { j }$ maps the state of agent j to a position in the workspace S. The identical capabilities are given by $C a p _ { j } = \{ { ^ { \ast } D e l i v e r y ^ { \prime \prime } } , { ^ { \ast } G r o u n d ^ { \prime \prime } } \} , j \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 \}$ . All the aerial vehicles are identical. For $j \in \{ 5 , 6 \} , f _ { j }$ are given by

$$p _ {x, j} (t + 1) = p _ {x, j} (t) + v _ {x, j} (t), \tag {4}p _ {y, j} (t + 1) = p _ {y, j} (t) + v _ {y, j} (t),$$
