The above approaches do not scale for large teams. Very recent work has focused on development of logics and synthesis algorithms specifically tailored for such situations. The authors of [12] proposed Counting LTL (cLTL), which is used to define tasks for large groups of identical agents. Counting constraints specify the number of agents that need to achieve a certain goal. As long as enough agents achieve the goal, it does not matter which specific subgroup does that. Similar ideas are used in Capability Temporal Logic (CaTL) [13]. The atomic unit of a CaTL formula is a task, which specifies the number of agents with certain capability that need to reach some region and stay there for some time. Since agents can have different capabilities, CaTL is appropriate for heterogeneous teams. Unlike cLTL, CaTL is a fragment of STL, and allows for concrete time requirements.

The expressivities of both cLTL and CaTL are limited by the definition of counting constraints and tasks, respectively. For example, neither cLTL nor CaTL can require that “3 agents eventually reach region A” without requiring that the 3 agents reach region A at the same time. This can be restrictive. Consider, for example, a disaster relief scenario, where a team of robots needs to deliver supplies to an affected area. We require that enough supplies be delivered, i.e., enough robots eventually reach the affected area, rather than enough robots stay in the affected area at the same time. In fact, a robot is supposed to go on to the next task after drop off the supply without waiting for the other robots. To solve this problem, an extension of cLTL, called cLTL+, was proposed in [14], where a two-layer LTL structure was defined. However, cLTL+ can not specify concrete time requirements. To address this limitation, we extend CaTL to a novel logic called CaTL+, which has a two-layer structure similar to cLTL+. The authors of [15] extended STL with integral predicates, which also enables asynchronous satisfaction, but it can only specify how many times a service is needed. A CaTL+ task can specify the number of agents that need to satisfy an arbitrary STL formula. Another related work is CensusSTL [16], which is also a two-layer STL that refers to mutually exclusive subsets of a group, rather than capabilities of agents. Also, [16] focuses on inference of formulas from data, rather than control synthesis.
