Proof. Consider a CaTL task $T ^ { \prime } = \langle d , \ \pi , \ \{ c _ { i } , m _ { i } \} _ { i \in I _ { T } } \rangle$ . Let $\varphi _ { \pi }$ be a CaTL+ inner logic formula that represents the region specified by π. Then the CaTL task $T ^ { \prime }$ can be transformed into a CaTL+ formula $\textstyle \bigwedge _ { i \in I _ { T } } \mathbf { G } _ { [ 0 , d ] } \langle \varphi , \ c _ { i } , \ m _ { i } \rangle$ which represents the equivalent specification. Since other operators of CaTL are included in CaTL+, any CaTL formula can be transformed into a CaTL+ formula with equivalent specification. On the other hand, a CaTL+ formula can be $\langle { \bf F } _ { [ a , b ] } \varphi _ { \pi } , ~ c , ~ m \rangle$ , which cannot be specified by any CaTL formula due to its syntax. □

Intuitively, a CaTL task can only specify the number of agents that should “always” exist in a region in a duration of time. All the other temporal and Boolean operators have to be outside the task. In contrast, CaTL+ is more expressive because a CaTL+ task can specify a full STL formula in the inner logic. E.g., a CaTL+ task can be $T = \langle \mathbf { F } _ { [ a , b ] } \varphi _ { \pi } , \ c , \ m \rangle$ . This task is satisfied if m agents satisfy $\varphi _ { \pi }$ in [a, b] synchronously or asynchronously. A CaTL formula can only specify $\mathbf { F } _ { [ a , b - 1 ] } \langle 1 , \pi , \{ c , m \} \rangle$ which requires synchronous satisfaction. Note that by introducing new capability to each agent, the CaTL+ task $\begin{array} { r } {  { T } ~ = ~ \langle  { \mathbf { F } } _ { [ a , b ] } \varphi _ { \pi } , \ c , \ m \rangle } \end{array}$ can be transformed into an equivalent CaTL formula with combinatorially many conjunctions and disjunctions. However, the resulting CaTL formula will be very complex, which might make the control synthesis intractable.

Moreover, CaTL+ formula can contain negations, which is absent from CaTL. So CaTL+ can specify more specifications including “no more than m agents could visit a region”.

The robustness definitions of CaTL+ and CaTL are also very different. CaTL robustness represents the minimum number of agents that can be removed from a given team in order to invalidate the given formula. It is not directly related to the trajectory of each agent. It is sound, but without the continuity, differentiability and mask-eliminating properties of CaTL+ (exponential) robustness.

Another difference is that CaTL is defined on a discrete graph environment. The controls synthesized using ILP is a sequence of transitions between the vertices of the graph. In contrast, CaTL+ is defined on a continuous workspace. Each agent has its own dynamics and continuous control space.
