$$\dot {x} _ {k} = \left(\rho_ {1} + \rho_ {2} \frac {\dot {\varphi} (t , T _ {r} + T _ {s})}{\varphi (t , T _ {r} + T _ {s})}\right) \sum_ {l \in \mathcal {N} _ {k}} w _ {k l} [ x _ {l} - \mathrm{sign} (w _ {k l}) x _ {k} ],$$

$k \in \mathcal { I } _ { N }$ for all $t \geq T _ { r }$ . With this fact and based on Theorems 1-3, one can readily derive the following results.

Theorem 4. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46), and let $\mathcal { G }$ be strongly connected. Then, the CAN (2) reaches

1) prescribed-time bipartite consensus in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s }$ , if G is structurally balanced.   
2) prescribed-time stability in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s }$ , if G is structurally unbalanced.

Remark 6. Notice that Theorems 1 and 4 are valid for any strongly connected signed digraph G , irrespective of whether it is sign-symmetric or not.

Theorem 5. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46), and let G be quasi-strongly connected. Then, the CAN (2) accomplishes

1) prescribed-time interval bipartite consensus in the prespecified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s }$ , if the subgraph $\mathcal { G } _ { L }$ of G is structurally balanced.   
2) prescribed-time stability in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s } ,$ , if the subgraph $\mathcal { G } _ { L }$ of G is structurally unbalanced.

Remark 7. Notice that Theorems 2 and 5 hold for any quasistrongly signed digraph G , irrespective of its sign patterns. It is worth noticing also that with the quasi-strong connectivity of G , Theorems 2 and 5 hold irrespective of whether $\mathcal { G } _ { F }$ is structurally unbalanced or balanced and can fulfill any connectivity condition or not.

Theorem 6. Consider the CAN (2) under the sliding mode control protocol (47) with its sliding variables as designed in (46), and let $\mathcal { G }$ be weakly connected. Then, the CAN (2) achieves

1) prescribed-time bipartite containment in the prespecified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s } ,$ , if at least one CSC of G is structurally balanced.

2) prescribed-time stability in the pre-specified finite time $T _ { r } + T _ { s } ,$ if all the CSCs of G are structurally unbalanced.

Remark 8. Note that Theorems 3 and 6 hold for any weakly connected signed digraph G , irrespective of its sign pattern.
