There have been several driving factors that have pushed the cloud computation paradigm to distributed computing on the edge. In particular, the explosion of the internet of things (IoT) has called for an increased emphasis on the collateral attributes of distributed edge networks, e.g., mobility, widespread geographical location, low-latency, and heterogeneity [6]. In parallel, recent works [38], [7] have shown the feasibility of driving computation to edge devices in an attempt to facilitate advancements that target these attributes. Yet as applications are driven further from cloud computing towards the edge, there exists a tradeoff in utility versus physical security guarantees. In particular, emerging scenarios that rely on deployable and/or mobile infrastructures such as emergency response necessitate a means of distributed edge computation on devices that are cyber-physically insecure. As opposed to cloud data centers, these low-level devices are physically exposed and may not be able to deploy any of the aforementioned procedural countermeasures while providing cyber-physical runtime guarantees. However, unlike the aforementioned covert channels, these cyber-physical systems are typically monitored via supervisory controller state estimation to ensure the system is behaving correctly. Therefore, an attacker’s encoding mechanism for data exfiltration would need to be designed so as not to have the state estimator raise any flags. Because fog architectures are running inferencing closer to or on the edge devices, an attacker may have access to higher-level information inferred from the data and, as such, has to encode less bits into an attack since more information can be encoded into each bit. For instance, a drone that is monitoring a group of soldiers may have an inference algorithm that detects how many soldiers are in its view. An attacker would only have to encode the number of soldiers into the data exfiltration as opposed to sending the raw data.
