Theorem 2: (pRES of robust MHE) Consider system (8) subject to noise $\varepsilon _ { x } ^ { d }$ and $\varepsilon _ { y } ^ { d }$ in the (offline) data collection phase and to $v \in \mathbb { V }$ in the online phase. Let Assumptions 1 - 4 hold. Then, there exists $L _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ such that for all $L > L _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ the robust data-driven MHE scheme (9) is pRES, i.e., there exist $c _ { 1 } , c _ { 2 } \geq 1 , \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } \in ( 0 , 1 )$ , and a function $\gamma \in { \cal K } .$ , such that for all $x _ { 0 } , \hat { x } ( 0 ) \in \tilde { \mathbb { X } }$ , all $u \in \mathbb { U }$ , and for all $t \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ , (13) is satisfied.

The detailed proof can be found in Appendix A. The idea is to exploit some incremental detectability property (here: e-UOSS) together with bounds on the optimal value function to establish a contraction, which is then applied recursively. The framework of the proof is similar to robust stability proofs of various model-based MHE schemes, see [26], [28], [33]. In the here considered data-driven setting with noisy offline data, the following main modifications are necessary compared to standard robust model-based MHE proofs:

- To bound the optimal value function, a candidate trajectory is needed. The construction of this feasible (but in general suboptimal) candidate trajectory of the MHE problem is here more involved compared to the modelbased MHE proofs. We need to choose $\sigma ^ { x } , \ \sigma ^ { y } .$ , and α suitably to define a feasible candidate trajectory that satisfies the state constraints.   
- Furthermore, suitable bounds for $\scriptstyle \left| \sigma ^ { x } \right| , \ \left| \sigma ^ { y } \right|$ , and |α| of the candidate solution are needed.   
- In model-based MHE proofs, one exploits the incremental detectability property by considering the optimal estimated system trajectory and the real (unknown) system trajectory. In the data-driven setting considering noisy offline state and output measurements, the estimated system trajectory might not be a feasible system trajectory anymore. Hence, we need to adapt the estimated trajectory to guarantee that it is a feasible system trajectory such that the incremental detectability property can be exploited.   
- Finally, since the offline data is noisy, one can only prove a practical robust stability result that depends on the noise
