To overcome that problem, nonlinear control methods are often used. The most popular nonlinear control techniques include sliding mode control (SMC) and its variations due to the capability to handle model uncertainties [11, 12]. In [11], an adaptive twisting SMC algorithm is developed to control the attitudes of a quadrotor with satisfactory performance. In [13], an SMC based on neural networks is designed to minimize the impact of external disturbances on UAV dynamics. The SMC and its variants are also used in [14–16] to regulate the UAV attitude under different conditions. However, the inevitable chattering phenomenon generated by SMC is undesirable to the system and the computational cost is proportional to the order of the system. Hence, another nonlinear control method named the backstepping control (BSC) is often used [17–19]. It can handle nonlinearities in the system dynamics and external disturbances to generate fast and efficient tracking performance. For instance, the adaptive BSC introduced in [20] is capable of controlling the attitude of a quadrotor in harsh conditions with desirable accuracy. However, if the system model is subject to constraints or uncertainties, the control performance is quickly degraded and may lead to divergence. The BSC and SMC can be combined to take advantage of both controllers [21, 22], but the undesirable chattering phenomenon then persists. Besides, the system stability is affected if constraints on system states and control signals exist.
