| x | 0.00 | 0.25 | 0.50 | 0.75 | 1.00 | 1.25 | 1.50 | 1.75 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0.00 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 0.25 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 0.50 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 0.75 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 1.00 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 1.25 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 1.50 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
| 1.75 | 1.75 | 1.50 | 1.25 | 1.00 | 0.75 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.00 |
</details>

(d) DDPG Final State   
Fig. 1: Material Micro-structure Control: the goal is to take the micro-structure from the initial to the goal state (top row). The micro-structure evolution is governed by a nonlinear PDE which makes its control computationally intractable. A comparison between a state of the art data based RL technique is shown versus the proposed D2C technique (bottom row) for the reliable and tractable solution of this control problem.

The contributions of the paper are as follows: we show how to model the dynamics of a multi-phase microstructure and unveil its underlying structure. We present the application of the D2C approach, and a state of the art RL technique (DDPG) to the control of such microstructure dynamics for the first time in the literature, to the best of our knowledge. Our results show that the local D2C approach outperforms the global RL approach such as DDPG when operating on higher dimensional phase field PDEs. We also show that the D2C approach is robust to noise in the practical regimes, and that global optimality can be recovered in higher noise levels through an open-loop replanning approach. Furthermore, we can exploit the peculiar physical properties of material micro-structure dynamics to optimize the control actuation architecture that leads to highly computationally efficient control that does not sacrifice much performance. We envisage that this work is a first step towards the construction of a systematic feedback control synthesis approach for the control of material micro-structures, potentially scalable to real applications.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In Section II, the micro-structure dynamics are expanded upon, describing the different PDEs tested. We propose the decoupled data based control (D2C) approach in Section III. In Section IV, the proposed approach is illustrated through customdefined test problems of varying dimensions, along with testing robustness to noise, followed by improvements to the algorithms which exploit the physics of the system.
