# IV. APPLICATION TO FOUR-TANK SYSTEM

In this section, we illustrate the performance of the novel robust data-driven MHE scheme by means of several numerical simulations. We consider exemplarily a four-tank system [37]. First, we focus on a linearized version of the fourtank system that has also been considered in [12]. Second, we consider the original nonlinear four-tank system. In both cases, we compare the performance of the data-driven MHE scheme to the performance of a model-based MHE scheme where the model is identified by subspace identification (SID) and prediction error minimization (PEM) using the same (offline) input, output and state measurements that are used in the offline phase of the data-driven MHE formulation. In the context of controller design, some recent works compare the performance of direct data-driven control frameworks to indirect data-driven control frameworks, where in the latter the offline data are used to identify a model of the system, which is then used for model-based control, see [38], [39]. The main outcome of these works is that the indirect approach typically performs better if the offline data are only corrupted by measurement noise. In turn, direct data-based control can be superior if one faces a “bias error”, which can, e.g., result from identifying a linear model for a system which is, in fact, nonlinear, or when identifying a model of lower order than the real system dimension.

So far, these results are related to the control context. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, no investigations regarding the dual problem of estimation are available in the literature. Therefore, we here show a first comparison between direct data-driven MHE and indirect data-driven MHE by means of numerical experiments. In Subsection IV-A we consider the linearized system with offline collected data that are subject to some additive measurement noise. In Subsection IV-B, we consider exemplarily a bias error by identifying a fourdimensional linear model using data coming from a system that is, in fact, nonlinear.
