Remark 2: In many model-based MHE stability proofs, the notion of incremental input/output-to-state stability (i-IOSS) is employed. The e-UOSS property considered here differs from that notion by (i) using the exponential version which is always satisfied for linear detectable systems (compare, e.g., [32, Corollary 7]) and by (ii) only considering an output term in (12), but not an additional disturbance input. The extension of our results to this additional disturbance input (also referred to as process noise) is an interesting issue for future research, compare also Remark 4 in Section III.

In order to prove RGES, we need the following four standard assumptions.

and the offline collected input Assumption 1: The considered system (8) is controllable $\{ u ^ { \dot { d } } ( k ) \} _ { k = 0 } ^ { N - 1 }$ is persistently exciting of order $L + n + 1$ .

Note that this assumption implies $N \geq ( m + 1 ) ( L + n + 1 ) - 1$ .

Assumption 2: The pair (A, C) of system (8) is detectable and the discount factor ρ in (11) and (10) is selected such that $\eta \leq \rho ,$ for η in (12).

The assumption on the relation of the discount factors is needed for technical reasons that become clear in the proof of Theorem 2, see Appendix A.

Recall the definitions of the stage costs $\ell _ { k }$ in (11) and of the prior weighting Γ in (10). Note that the quadratic expressions in the definitions of the stage costs and the prior weighting can always be lower bounded if the matrices R and P are positive definite, i.e., $r _ { 1 } | \sigma ^ { y } ( t - \tau | t ) | ^ { 2 } \rho ^ { k } \le | \sigma ^ { y } ( t - \tau | t ) | _ { R } ^ { 2 } \rho ^ { k }$ and $p _ { 1 } | \overline { { x } } ( t - L | t ) - \hat { x } ( t - L ) | ^ { 2 } \rho ^ { L } \leq | \overline { { x } } ( t - L | t ) - \hat { x } ( t - L ) | _ { P } ^ { \tilde { 2 } } \rho ^ { L }$ with $r _ { 1 } : = \lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( R )$ and $p _ { 1 } : = \lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( P )$ , respectively.

Assumption 3: The matrices R in (11) and P in (10) are positive definite. Furthermore, it holds that $p _ { 0 } \leq p _ { 1 }$ and $r _ { 0 } \le$ $r _ { 1 }$ with $p _ { 0 }$ and $r _ { 0 }$ as from Definition 2.

In order to satisfy Assumptions 2 and 3, the constants $r _ { 0 } , p _ { 0 } $ , and η from Definition 2 need to be known. In Appendix B, we briefly outline how these can be computed in a data-driven fashion.

In order to show pRES of the introduced data-driven MHE (9), we need one further assumption.
