# B. Scalability

Next we investigate the scalability of our algorithm. We proportionally increase the number of agents in each category until the total number is 21. The number of optimization variables, i.e., the number of controls, grows linearly with respect to the number of agents. At the same time, $\Phi _ { 2 } , \Phi _ { 3 }$ , $\Phi _ { 5 }$ remain unchanged, while $\Phi _ { 1 } , \Phi _ { 4 } , \Phi _ { 6 }$ , which specify requirements for all agents (in a category), change accordingly.

We also compare the results of using SQP and L-BFGS-B in the local optimization phase. For each different number of agents and local optimizer, we solve Pb. 1 for 10 times over different initial conditions. Each time we iterate CMA-ES for fixed 1000 generations with population size 150. For SQP and L-BFGS-B, we set the maximum number of iterations to 200 and the local optimizer terminates after convergence. Then we compute the mean and standard deviation of the resulting robustness and computation time. The results are shown in Fig. 6. In Fig. 6a, we can see that the computation time for the global search (CMA-ES) increases almost linearly with respect to the number of agents. The number of agents has a large effect on the computation time of SQP, but a relatively small effect for L-BFGS-B. We note that the number of agents does not change the time to compute the exponential robustness and its gradients. Hence, the different effects on the computation time come from the optimizers themselves. SQP is not designed for high dimensional optimization, so large number of variables make SQP inefficient. Computation other than evaluating the robustness and its gradients is trival in L-BFGS-B, hence the computation time is basically the same with increasing number of agents. In Fig. 6b, the positive robustness indicates that Pb. 1 can be solved successfully when considering more agents. Although L-BFGS-B is faster and has better scalability, SQP returns higher robustness. Moreover, SQP is able to deal with nonlinear constraints, while L-BFGS-B is restricted to box constraints as in this example.
