which shows that $\mu K \in { \mathcal { P } } _ { c } ( Y )$ .

When K is an optimal transport kernel, the coupling $\mu \odot K$ is optimal so long as it has finite cost, which we just showed. 

As alluded to earlier, we have been (nearly) constructing optimal transport kernels whenever we constructed an optimal transport plan. By utilizing Corollary 3, we can use a optimal coupling as an optimal transport kernel for any measure that is absolutely continuous with respect to a marginal. We begin by defining the set of measures for which an optimal coupling may act as an optimal transport kernel.

Definition 5. Let $\mathcal { A C P } _ { c } ^ { b } ( \mu )$ be the set of measures in $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( X )$ which are absolutely continuous with respect to $\mu$ with bounded Radon-Nikodym derivatives.

We now show how to use a coupling with marginal $\mu$ as a transition kernel for the set of measures $\mathcal { A C P } _ { c } ^ { b } ( \mu )$ .

Definition 6. Let $\gamma$ be a coupling between measures $\mu$ and $\nu .$ Then we define $K ^ { \gamma }$ as the transition kernel associated to $\gamma$ defined on the measures $\eta \in \mathcal { A C } \mathcal { P } _ { c } ^ { b } ( \mu )$ by

$$\eta \odot K ^ {\gamma} = \frac {d \eta}{d \mu} (x) \gamma (x, y)$$

and

$$\eta K ^ {\gamma} = (\mathrm{proj} _ {Y}) _ {\#} \left(\frac {d \eta}{d \mu} (x) \gamma (x, y)\right).$$

Theorem 6. $I f \gamma$ is an optimal coupling between $\mu$ and $\nu$ in $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( X ) , \mathcal { P } _ { c } ( Y )$ respectively, then on $\mathcal { A C P } _ { c } ^ { b } ( \mu ) K ^ { \gamma }$ is an optimal transport kernel and $\eta K ^ { \gamma }$ is in $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( Y )$ for any $\eta \in \mathcal { A C } \mathcal { P } _ { c } ^ { b } ( \mu )$ .

Proof. The proof follows from the definitions we established.

Let $\eta \in \mathcal { A C } \mathcal { P } _ { c } ^ { b } ( \mu )$ . Then

$$\eta \odot K ^ {\gamma} (c (x, y)) = \int_ {X} \int_ {Y} c (x, y) \frac {d \eta}{d \mu} (x) \gamma (x, y) \tag {14}\leq M \int_ {X} \int_ {Y} c (x, y) \gamma (x, y) < \infty . \tag {15}$$

This shows that $\eta \odot K ^ { \gamma }$ has finite cost and is thus the optimal coupling between η and $\eta K ^ { \gamma }$ .

To show that $\eta K ^ { \gamma }$ is in $\mathcal { P } _ { c } ( Y )$ , we need only note that

$$\int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) \eta K ^ {\gamma} (y) = \int_ {X} \int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) \frac {d \eta}{d \mu} (x) \gamma (x, y) \tag {16}\leq M \int_ {X} \int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) \gamma (x, y) = M \int_ {Y} c _ {Y} (y) d \nu < \infty . \tag {17}$$

This completes both parts of the proof.

For the remainder of the paper we will talk about the kernel associated to a coupling and omit discussion of the limited range of the kernel. It is left to future work to extend the kernel to be defined point-wise like how regular transition kernels are defined, and to extend them beyond the support of $\gamma$ when that support is limited. Additionally, understanding if there are better ways to extend beyond the measures that are absolutely continuous with bounded RN-derivatives.
