# 4 EXPERIMENTS

In this section, we demonstrate the usage of BEAR with two building examples. We compare our simulator with EnergyPlus on a rectangular single-story building to validate the fidelity of our simulations. We also compare the performance of different control strategies, including rule-based controller, MPC (which knows the exact building dynamics model), and two RL controllers SAC [5], PPO [16] (which do not assume any model knowledge) on a simulated medium office building. Since our goal is to show the compatibility of our platform with multiple controllers, we directly set up all RL algorithms using Stable-Baselines 3 [14]. Detailed variable settings and building type examples can be found in our anonymous code repository.

Single-Story Building: To illustrate the fidelity of our simulator, we first set up a test example building model described in the EnergyPlus documentation and benchmark it against BEAR’s simulations. See Fig 2 (A) for the building illustration. Specifically, we set up the physics-based model with building parameters estimated through information provided in the EnergyPlus. We also fit a data-driven model with data simulated by the EnergyPlus. A comparison of the zonal temperature simulated in BEAR and EnergyPlus without any HVAC control is shown in Fig 3. We could see both physics-based and data-driven simulation engine demonstrate good fidelity compared to EnergyPlus. Then, we set the indoor temperature at $2 2 ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C }$ with a daily operating schedule of 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. In Fig 4, we compare the south zone temperature between our simulator and EnergyPlus using the same control input actions. We also compare the power demand by controlling each zone in the building strictly at the same target temperature. As is shown in Fig 5, under the same operational goal, we validate that not only the daily temperature in both simulations exhibit the same patterns (left), but the energy consumption profile of BEAR also closely tracks EnergyPlus’s simulated trajectory (right).
