The DDDP has been evaluated for different corridor $C _ { v }$ and initial discretization Δ𝑎 values, for the three investigated scenarios (see Table 4 in Appendix A). It can be seen that, for all presented initial discretization values, the obtained optimal solution at convergence reaches the same globally optimal solution, if the corridor width is sufficiently large, specifically for $C _ { v } \ge 4$ (or lower, in some cases). This is because, for very small values of $C _ { v } ,$ DDDP does not have sufficient flexibility to improve the solution at each iteration due to the extremely limited state space, something that may lead to a local optimum of the overall problem at convergence. At the same time, a reduction of the number of DDDP iterations is obtained for larger corridors. This behaviour is expected, as the bigger corridors, i.e., bigger admissible sub-regions, lead to potentially better solutions at each iteration, and hence to fewer iterations to converge to the optimal solution. On the other hand, despite the decrease on the number of iterations, the overall computation time may increase due to the higher computation time required at each iteration, which in turn, is due to more feasible discrete state points included in each iteration’s sub-region. Based on these observations, the selection of the values $C = [ 2 0 , 4 ]$ and $\Delta a = 0 . 5$ seems to be a reasonable choice.

The accuracy of the DDDP algorithm compared to the full one-shot SDP solution may be assessed by contrasting the optimal cost and the optimal states and control trajectories, obtained in the last respective DDDP iterations of the three scenarios, to the corresponding optimal trajectories derived from the full-range SDP with a discretisation of $\Delta a = 0 . 1 2 5$ . As a matter of fact, DDDP manages, in all cases, to converge to the exact same optimal solution as the full-range SDP. The obtained optimal costs of both approaches, for the three scenarios, are 1.175, 3.906 and 6.3582, respectively, while the computation time differences are remarkable, as the one-shot SDP needs approximately 613 s to obtain the solution (same for all scenarios), while DDDP needs only 0.69, 1.24 and 1.12 s for the respective three scenarios. More importantly, this big reduction in computation time enables the DDDP algorithm to be executable in real time, even in an MPC mode, on the vehicle side, similarly to the deterministic GLOSA.
