where $\overline { { N } } = P B F D R ^ { - 1 } D ^ { T } F ^ { T } B ^ { T } P .$ Defining $A _ { c l } =$ $A + B F C$ and using the expression (36) for $\bar { \overline { { { R } } } } ^ { }$ and the Schur complement, inequality (38) is equivalent to

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} A _ {c l} ^ {T} P + P A _ {c l} + \overline {{F}} ^ {T} R \overline {{F}} & P B F D \\ D ^ {T} F ^ {T} B ^ {T} P & - R \end{array} \right] <   0 \tag {39}
$$

where $\overline { F }$ was defined in (30). Pre-multiplying (39) by $\boldsymbol { v } = [ x ^ { T } ~ \boldsymbol { u } ^ { T } ]$ and post-multiplying by $v ^ { T }$ yields

$$x ^ {T} P \dot {x} + \dot {x} ^ {T} P x + x ^ {T} \overline {{F}} ^ {T} R \overline {{F}} x - u ^ {T} R u < 0 \tag {40}$$

where ${ \dot { x } } = A x + B u$ with u given by (30) are the closedloop dynamics. We have therefore shown that inequality (32) is equivalent to inequality (40) provided that the Riccati equation (6) is satisfied. Since the last two terms cancel out, inequality (40) becomes

$$x ^ {T} P \dot {x} + \dot {x} ^ {T} P x < 0 \tag {41}$$

We now prove that the inequality (32) is a sufficient condition. Under the stated assumptions there is a unique solution $P > 0$ of the Riccati equation (6). Assume that there is also solution of the inequality (32). Choosing the Lyapunov function $V = x ^ { T } P x$ , the inequality (40) proves asymptotic stability of the closed-loop system. To prove the converse result assume that system (28) is stabilizable by static output feedback. Then there exist matrices $P ~ > ~ 0$ and $F$ such that $V ~ = ~ x ^ { T } P x$ is a Lyapunov function for the closed-loop system with $P , F$ verifying inequality (41). Adding and subtracting the term $u ^ { T } R u$ with $u = \overline { { F } } x$ yields inequality (40). From the fact that $u = F C x + F D u ,$ defining $\dot { v } = [ x ^ { T } \ u ^ { T } ]$ this inequality can be rewritten as (39) because left multiplying (39) by $v ^ { T }$ and right multiplying it by v yields (40). Since R is invertible, we can add and subtract the terms $P B R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { T } P$ and N defined in (34) to the Schur complement of inequality (39) and then define a matrix $Q$ given by (6). This allows us to rewrite (39) as the LMI (37). Using Schur coomplement one can equivalently write (37) as (32). Therefore, there always exist matrices $F , P > 0$ , such that for arbitraty $R > 0$ , there always exists a $Q = Q ( R , P )$ given by (6) so that the LMI (32) is satisfied. ✷
