In the proposed GLOSA application (Typaldos et al., 2021), the starting trajectory for the first iteration of DDDP is the optimal solution of the deterministic GLOSA problem, assuming the "pessimistic" case where the traffic light will switch from red to green at the latest possible time, that is, at $k _ { 1 } = k _ { m a x }$ , so as to cover the whole time range and be not too far from the stochastic optimal trajectory; see (Typaldos et al., 2020a). The discretisation intervals $\Delta a ^ { ( l ) } , \Delta x ^ { ( l ) }$ for the first iteration are also given. The intervals are reduced by half, each time there is no solution improvement at two subsequent iterations. The corridor width is taken as

$$\boldsymbol {\Delta} _ {C} ^ {(l)} = \boldsymbol {C} \cdot \Delta a ^ {(l)} \tag {17}$$

where $C = [ C _ { x } , C _ { v } ]$ are constant given values specifying the state corridor width. Thus, the corridor’s initial width is defined through the chosen values for 𝑪 and $\Delta a ^ { ( l ) }$ . In the following iterations, whenever the discrete interval is reduced, there is an analogous reduction of the corridor width. Consequently, we have a constant number of feasible discrete points in all iterations, which facilitates the algorithm’s fine-tuning, so as to improve its computational efficiency. Note that, $C _ { x }$ and $C _ { v }$ values may differ, as the magnitude of the two respective state variables differs.

The admissible control region 𝑈 (see (7)) is kept the same at each iteration, although many related state transitions cannot be considered in view of the reduced state variables domain. The algorithm terminates whenever there is no improvement of the produced solution trajectory even after a reduction of the discretisation interval; or when the $\Delta a ^ { ( l ) }$ value becomes less than 0.125, which was found in (Typaldos et al., 2020a) to lead to sufficiently accurate results.
