# III. STATIC OUTPUT FEEDBACK WITH DIRECT FEEDTHROUGH

Consider now the dynamics of a linear time-invariant system with direct feedthrough term

$$\dot {x} = A x + B uy = C x + D u \tag {28}$$

where $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the state, $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the input, and $y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the output. Note that this model corresponds to making $w = u$ in system (1). As before, the pair $( A , B )$ is assumed to be controllable and the pair $( A , C )$ is assumed to be observable. The static output feedback problem in this section is to find a control input

$$u = F y = F C x + F D u \tag {29}$$

which can be rewritten as

$$u = (I - F D) ^ {- 1} F C x = \overline {{{F}}} x \tag {30}$$

such that the closed-loop system

$$\dot {x} = \left[ A + B (I - F D) ^ {- 1} F C \right] x \tag {31}$$

is asymptotically stable.1

Theorem 3.1: Assume that the linear system (28) is given with $( A , B )$ controllable and $( A , C )$ observable. Assume further that $Q = Q ^ { T } \geq 0 , R = R ^ { T } > 0$ , are such that the pair $( A , { \sqrt { Q } } )$ is observable. If there is a solution of

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c c} M & P \overline {{B}} & C ^ {T} F ^ {T} \\ \overline {{B}} ^ {T} P & R & 0 _ {m \times p} \\ F C & 0 _ {p \times m} & \overline {{R}} \end{array} \right] > 0 \tag {32}
$$

where

$$M = Q - P B F C - C ^ {T} F ^ {T} B ^ {T} P + N \tag {33}N = P B \left(F D R ^ {- 1} + R ^ {- 1} D ^ {T} F ^ {T}\right) B ^ {T} P, \tag {34}\overline {{{B}}} = B (I + F D), \tag {35}\overline {{{R}}} = (I - F D) R ^ {- 1} \left(I - D ^ {T} F ^ {T}\right) \tag {36}$$

and $P$ is the unique positive definite solution of the Riccati equation (6), then the control law (30) is a stabilizing static output feedback for system (28). Conversely, if the 1in fact exponentially stable since the system is linear

system (28) is static output feedback stabilizable, there always exist $F , P > 0 , R > 0 , Q$ verifying (32).

Proof: Since $R > 0$ one can use the Schur complement defined in Lemma 2.4 to rewrite (32) as

$$M - P \overline {{B}} R ^ {- 1} \overline {{B}} ^ {T} P - C ^ {T} F ^ {T} \overline {{R}} ^ {- 1} F C > 0 \tag {37}$$

Using the definition of M, N and $\overline { B }$ from (33), (34) and (35), respectively, and the Riccati equation (6), this inequality can be equivalently written as

$$(A + B F C) ^ {T} P + P (A + B F C) + \overline {{N}} + C ^ {T} F ^ {T} \overline {{R}} ^ {- 1} F C < 0 \tag {38}$$
