In (Typaldos et al., 2020a), the problem of producing fuel-optimal vehicle trajectories for a vehicle approaching a traffic signal was considered for both cases of known and stochastic switching times. For the first case, an optimal control problem was formulated and solved analytically via PMP (Pontryagin’s Maximum Principle). Subsequently, the case of stochastic switching time with known probability distribution was also addressed in the format of a stochastic optimal control problem, which was solved numerically using SDP. The proposed SDP algorithm may take several minutes to execute, which implies that the solution is not real-time feasible and can therefore not be obtained on-board the vehicle, but must be executed offline, on the infrastructure side, and be communicated to approaching vehicles according to their current states. To substantially reduce the computation time and memory requirements for the solution of the stochastic GLOSA problem and enable its solution on-board the vehicle, Typaldos et al. (2021) employed a Discrete Differential Dynamic Programming (DDDP) algorithm (Heidari et al., 1971). DDDP is an iterative algorithm, each iteration receiving a feasible (but non-optimal) trajectory and transforming it to an enhanced one, to be used in the next iteration, and so forth, until convergence to the overall solution is achieved. Each iteration uses the conventional DP algorithm to solve the problem within a strongly reduced state domain around the received state trajectory of the previous iteration. The computational time required for each iteration is far lower compared to that of the one-shot full problem solution, due to the strongly reduced space domain considered. Thus, the problem may be solved by use of DDDP very fast (around 1 s CPU time or less) (Typaldos et al., 2021). It should be noted that, in contrast to deterministic optimal control problems, general stochastic optimal control problems do not feature a solution trajectory, even for given initial states, due to the uncertainty of system evolution created by the included stochastic variables. However, in the specific stochastic GLOSA problem, such a trajectory is indeed present in the problem solution, and this allows for application of the DDDP algorithm.
