# I. INTRODUCTION

Static output feedback for linear systems is still an open problem in the sense that no satisfactory computationally tractable necessary and sufficient condition has been found for a system of arbitrary order. Although some specialized cases of single input single output systems of lower order have been solved successfully with tractable methods (see [1] and references therein), static output feedback is still an important research topic in control theory that dates back to the 1960s [2].

The problem of static output feedback re-emerged in the 1990s with a seminal paper by Trofino and Ku˘cera [3]. Shortly after, in a survey on the state of systems and control [4] it was stated that finding a tractable efficient algorithm for static output feedback stabilization was an open problem of control theory. Another survey on static output feedback [5] stated that the static output feedback multivariable problem was ”still analytically unsolved” and that ”no efficient algorithmically solutions” were available. Since the surveys [4], [5] were published many researchers have proposed different algorithms for static output feedback stabilization. However, up to the end of the 1990s most of the methodologies proposed in the literature were nonconvex and involved iterative procedures. An iterative algorithm with guaranteed linear quadratic suboptimality was proposed in [6]. A cone complementarity linearization algorithm was presented in reference [7] that was applied with promising results to a collection of numerical examples with randomly generated parameters. In reference [8] the authors propose an iterative LMI method to compute the feedback gain for static output feedback controllers. The iterative algorithm published in [9] uses the same structure for the gain matrix proposed in [10] yielding a static output feedback interpretation as an equivalent state feedback.
