Lemma 2.4: [16] Let matrices $X ( x ) , Y ( x ) , Z ( x )$ b e affinely dependent on x with proper dimensions where $X ( x ) = X ( x ) ^ { T } , \ Z ( x ) = Z ( x ) ^ { T }$ , and define

$$
M (x) = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} X (x) & Y (x) \\ Y ^ {T} (x) & Z (x) \end{array} \right]
$$

If $Z ( x )$ is invertible then

$$\mathbb {S} _ {\mathbb {Z}} (x) = X (x) - Y (x) Z (x) ^ {- 1} Y ^ {T} (x) \tag {10}$$

is called the Schur complement of $Z ( x )$ . The following statements are true:

1) $M ( x ) > 0$ if and only if $Z ( x ) > 0$ and $\mathbb { S } _ { \mathbb { Z } } ( x ) > 0$ ,   
2) $M ( x ) \geq 0$ if and only if $Z ( x ) \geq 0 ,$

$$X (x) - Y (x) Z ^ {\dagger} (x) Y ^ {T} (x) \geq 0, \tag {11}$$

and $Y ( x ) \left. { \cal I } - Z ( x ) Z ^ { \dagger } ( x ) \right. \ = \ 0 .$ , where $Z ^ { \dagger } ( x )$ denotes the Moore-Penrose inverse of $Z ( x )$ . Furthermore, when $Z ( x ) > 0$ then $M ( x ) \geq 0$ if and only if $\mathbb { S } _ { \mathbb { Z } } ( x ) \geq 0 \quad$ .

We start by considering the case $D = 0 .$ .

Theorem 2.5: Assume that the linear system

$$\dot {x} = A x + B uy = C x \tag {12}$$

is given with $( A , B )$ controllable and $( A , C )$ observable. Assume further that $Q = Q ^ { T } \geq 0 , R = R ^ { T } > 0$ , are such that the pair $( A , { \sqrt { Q } } )$ is observable. If there exists a matrix $F$ verifying the LMI

$$(A + B F C) ^ {T} P + P (A + B F C) < 0 \tag {13}$$

where $P > 0$ is the unique positive definite solution of the Riccati equation (6) then the control law $u = F y$ is a stabilizing static output feedback for system (12). Conversely, if the system (12) is static output feedback stabilizable then there always exit $F , P > 0$ verifying LMI (13).

Proof: To prove sufficiency note that LMI (13) corresponds to the the sufficient condition for stability of the closed-loop system under the feedback law $u = F y$ using as Lyapunov function $V = x ^ { T } P x$ . To prove the converse result, assume that system (12) is stabilizable by static output feedback. Since the system is linear it is necessary to find a quadratic Lyapunov function for the closed-loop system, i.e, it is necessary that there exist matrices $P > 0$ and F verifying (13). ✷

The next result is valid for the case $D \neq 0$ and includes the weighting matrices $Q , R$ in the design of $F .$ . These matrices can then be used as tuning parameters similarly to what is done in LQR design.
