In recent years, researchers in the field of estimation have attempted to design new observers with reduced regret. The idea of finding a versatile estimator that adapts to both Gaussian and worst-case noise through regret appears in Vanli et al. (2015). Nevertheless, this and most other works aim to improve regret bounds for given estimation methods. Among the works using regret measures for observer design, Ouhamma et al. (2021) provide an improvement to recursive ridge regression, and Gharbi et al. (2021) present an Moving Horizon Estimation (MHE) method, which is suboptimal in terms of the cost function, but has a lower regret bound than the optimal estimator. The work of Agrawal et al. (2021) makes a step towards regret-optimal estimation, as it gives an iterative algorithm that improves the regret bound at each iteration. However, the solution presented by the authors is iterative and only optimizes regret asymptotically. So far, only Sabag and Hassibi (2021) and Goel and Hassibi (2021) have directly computed a state observer that minimizes regret. However, their method is only γ-suboptimal and requires specific conditions for a solution to exist. Didier et al. (2022) and Martin et al. (2022) address this limitation in the context of regret-based controller design by formulating the minimization of regret in a convex way, and provide a simple way to introduce constraints. However, their approach cannot be applied in a straightforward way to state estimation problems, due to the presence of measurement noise.

In this paper, we provide a new convex formulation of the regret minimization problem with both process and measurement noise, which allows computing the regretoptimal observer using standard optimization tools. This formulation relies on a new parametrization adapting System Level Synthesis (SLS) (Anderson et al., 2019) for the state estimation problem. We test this observer on several systems, and show that it can improve the state estimation error compared to Kalman ${ \mathbf { \nabla } } / { \mathcal { H } } _ { 2 }$ and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ filters for various deterministic and stochastic disturbance profiles. Similar formulations for controller design show that it is possible to introduce constraints, although this aspect will not be discussed in this paper.

The paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 states the problem and provides the necessary tools and assumptions. Section 3 shows how to compute the $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } , \mathcal { H } _ { \infty } ,$ clairvoyant, and regret-optimal observers in the SLS framework. Section 4 discusses the numerical results, and Section 5 concludes the paper.
