# II. STATIC OUTPUT FEEDBACK

Consider the dynamics of a linear time-invariant system with measurements contaminated by a disturbance,

$$\dot {x} = A x + B uy = C x + D w \tag {1}$$

where $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the state, $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the input, $w \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { w } }$ is the disturbance, and $y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the output. The pair $( A , B )$ is assumed to be controllable and the pair $( A , C )$ is assumed to be observable. The static output feedback problem in this paper is to find a control input

$$u = F y = F C x + F D w \tag {2}$$

such that the closed-loop system

$$\dot {x} = (A + B F C) x + B F D w \tag {3}$$

is dissipative, which implies exponential stability of the closed-loop linear system in the absence of a disturbance. Roughly speaking, a system is considered dissipative if the amount of energy that the system can provide to its environment is less than what it receives from external sources as defined next.

Definition 2.1: The system (1) is dissipative with supply rate $W ( w )$ and class $C ^ { 1 }$ storage function $V ( x )$ , if $V ( x )$ is positive definite and if

$$\dot {V} (x (t)) < W (w (t)) \tag {4}$$

When both V and $W$ are quadratic functions the system is said to be quadratically dissipative.

The main idea of this paper is to design a static output feedback controller that can be obtained from a state feedback controller $u = K x$ that has been previously designed by LQR. This is a similar idea as the one used when designing an LQG dynamic output feedback invoking the certainty equivalence principle. For the LQG design the feedback gain can be obtained first by LQR and then an observer is designed independently to estimate the state in accordance with the separation principle. For the case of static output feedback no observer is needed. For linear systems the LQR is a state feedback controller that minimizes

$$J = \frac {1}{2} \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} \left[ x (t) ^ {T} Q x (t) + u (t) ^ {T} R u (t) \right] d t, \tag {5}$$

where $Q \ : = \ : Q ^ { T } \ : \geq \ : 0$ is a state weighting matrix and $R = R ^ { T } > 0$ is a control weighting matrix, both given by the designer. If the pair $( A , B )$ is controllable, given matrices $Q \ge 0 , R > 0$ , such that the pair $( A , { \sqrt { Q } } )$ is observable, one can compute the unique positive definite matrix P that is the solution of the Riccati equation

$$- A ^ {T} P - P A + P B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P = Q \tag {6}$$

yielding the stabilizing state feedback controller

$$u _ {s} (t) = K x (t) = - R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P x (t) \tag {7}$$

The solution of the Riccati equation can also be computed by solving the following semi-definite program (SDP), whose LMI was suggested by [15] and the opimization functional appeared in [10].
