# 2.3 System level synthesis

In order to formulate a convex problem to compute all $L _ { \tau | t }$ minimizing (2), we introduce a parametrization similar to SLS (Anderson et al., 2019), which was proposed for controller design. We will show the necessary modifications for addressing observer design in the this section.

Let $\mathcal { Z }$ be the block-downshift operator, namely a matrix with identity matrices along its first block sub-diagonal and zeros elsewhere, and let A = blkdiag $( A _ { 0 } , \ldots , A _ { T } , 0 _ { n \times n } )$ and $\mathcal { C } = \mathrm { b l k d i a g } ( 0 _ { m \times n } , C _ { 0 } , \dots , C _ { T } )$ . For $t = 0 , \ldots , T$ , the model (5) is equivalent to

$$\boldsymbol {e} = \mathcal {Z} \mathcal {A} \boldsymbol {e} - \mathcal {L C Z} \boldsymbol {e} + \mathcal {L} \boldsymbol {v} + \boldsymbol {w}, \tag {7}$$

where

$$
\mathcal {L} = \left( \begin{array}{c c c c} L _ {0 | 0} & 0 & \dots & 0 \\ L _ {0 | 1} & L _ {1 | 1} & \ddots & \vdots \\ \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & 0 \\ L _ {0 | T} & L _ {1 | T} & \dots & L _ {T | T} \end{array} \right). \tag {8}
$$

Remark. With this notation, a standard Luenberger observer is be modeled as a block-diagonal matrix with the same block $L _ { t \mid t } ~ = ~ L$ repeated in all diagonal elements. A Kalman filter is modeled as a block-diagonal ${ \mathcal { L } } ,$ in which each block $L _ { t \mid t }$ is a pre-computed Kalman gain for time t. The block lower-triangular formulation adopted in Sabag and Hassibi (2021) and in this paper is more general and allows one to consider noise patterns with dependencies between time instants.

The SLS model is defined by the matrices

$$\Phi_ {w} = (I - \mathcal {Z} (\mathcal {A} - \mathcal {L C})) ^ {- 1}, \tag {9a}\Phi_ {v} = (I - \mathcal {Z} (\mathcal {A} - \mathcal {L C})) ^ {- 1} \mathcal {L}, \tag {9b}$$

where, by construction, $\Phi _ { w }$ and $\Phi _ { v }$ satisfy (7), i.e.,

$$\boldsymbol {e} = \Phi_ {w} \boldsymbol {w} + \Phi_ {v} \boldsymbol {v}. \tag {10}$$

The lower block-triangular matrices $\Phi _ { v }$ and $\Phi _ { w }$ map the noise components v and w to their respective shares of the estimation error e. The maps $\Phi _ { v }$ and $\Phi _ { w }$ will be called prediction error maps in the rest of the paper. In contrast, when SLS is used for controller design, the closed-loop state and input maps $\Phi _ { x }$ and $\Phi _ { u }$ give the state and input trajectories depending solely on w Anderson et al. (2019).
