It appears that the first time that a semidefinite programming solution was proposed for the related problem of the least order dynamic output feedback synthesis was in reference [11]. In that paper the elimination lemma and matrix dilations were used to reduce the solution of a Bilinear Matrix Inequality (BMI) to a convex semi-definite program. However, although the proposed algorithm is not iterative, it is nonetheless quite intricate involving seven different steps. One year later, reference [1] addressed static output feedback stabilization for both linear and nonlinear systems. It offered a convex formulation of necessary and sufficient conditions of stabilizability under certain constraints on the system matrices for linear systems of order less or equal to three. Connections of static output feedback to LQR control were also studied in the literature. An early contribution making a connection of static output feedback to the solution of Ricatti equations and the LQR problem can be found in reference [10]. Unfortunately, the results of that paper do not seem to allow a convex formulation of static output feeback control in the form of an LMI. The authors have therefore proposed an iterative algorithm for synthesizing the controllers. An interesting summary of other work connecting static output feedback with LQR up to 2003 is included in reference [12]. In that reference an approach relying on the existence of two weighting matrices fulfilling an eigenvalue inequality is proposed. A matrix inequality is also proposed but it depends on the product of matrix variables in a form that does not seem to be transformable into an LMI. In the last decade the topic of LMIs for static output feedback synthesis regained interest in the literature. For the most important contributions up to 2015 see the survey [13] or [14] for a summary of past contributions.

The paper is organized as follows. Section II states and proves a result on the design of stabilizing static output feedback controllers. The proposed methodology is then extended to systems with direct feedthrough in section III. Examples are presented in section IV.
