We now prove the converse result. Assume that system (1) is stabilizable by static output feedback in the absence of disturbances and quadratically dissipative with supply rate $W ( w ) = w ^ { T } \bar { R } w$ for arbitrary $R > 0$ . Then there exist matrices $P ~ > ~ 0$ and F such that $V ~ = ~ x ^ { T } P x$ is a storage Lyapunov function for the closed-loop system with $P , F$ verifying inequality (18). Since R is invertible, we can add and subtract the terms $P B R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { T } P$ and N defined in (15) to the Schur complement of inequality (18) and then define a matrix Q given by (6). This allows us to rewrite (18) equivalently as the LMI (14) using Schur complement. Therefore, there always exist matrices $F , P \ > \ 0 .$ , such that for arbitraty $R > 0$ , there always exists a $Q = Q ( R , P )$ given by (6) so that the LMI (14) is satisfied. ✷

Remark 2.7: When D = 0 the LMI (14) becomes

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} Q - P B F C - C ^ {T} F ^ {T} B ^ {T} P & P B \\ B ^ {T} P & R \end{array} \right] > 0 \tag {20}
$$

Defining $\bar { A } = - B F C$ then the constraint (20) becomes the LQR synthesis LMI (8) for the pair (A, B ¯ ) [15]. ✷

Remark 2.8: From the proof of theorem 3.1, when $D = 0$ and equation (6) is satisfied then LMI (14) is equivalently to LMI (18), i.e,

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} (A + B F C) ^ {T} P + P (A + B F C) & 0 \\ 0 & - R \end{array} \right] <   0 \tag {21}
$$

which in turn is equivalent to (13). Therefore, from the previous remark we can conclude that LMI (20) is equivalent to LMI (13) when equation (6) is satisfied. ✷

Remark 2.9: Removing the positive semi-definite term N from inequality (14) yields a sufficient condition for the design of static output feedback controllers that render the closed-loop system dissipative. ✷

Corollary 2.10: If $C = I$ and $D = 0$ then the LQR gain matrix ${ \cal F } ~ = ~ - { \cal R } ^ { - 1 } B ^ { T } { \cal P }$ is a solution of LMI (14), where P is the unique positive definite solution of Riccati equation (6).

Proof: Replacing $C ~ = ~ I , D ~ = ~ 0$ , and ${ \boldsymbol { F } } =$ $- R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \check { T } } P$ in LMI (32) yields

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} Q + P B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P + P B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P & P B \\ B ^ {T} P & R \end{array} \right] > 0 \tag {22}
$$

Since $R > 0$ by Schur complement this inequality is equivalent to

$$Q + P B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P > 0 \tag {23}$$

From equation (6) we observe that

$$- Q = A ^ {T} P + P A - P B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P \tag {24}$$

so that inequality (23) can be rewritten as

$$(A - B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P) ^ {T} P + P (A - B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {T} P) < 0 \tag {25}$$

For $F = - R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { T } P$ this inequality is equivalent to

$$(A + B F) ^ {T} P + P (A + B F) < 0 \tag {26}$$

which is satisfied because P and F are obtained from the solution of an LQR problem. ✷

Theorem 3.1 motivates the following optimization.
