In this paper, we present BEAR, a physics-principled Building Environ-ment for control And Reinforcement learning. BEAR constructs building simulation from first-principled physics models and provides a scalable platform for researchers from different backgrounds to design, test and evaluate their reinforcement learning (RL) and control algorithms. BEAR can set up customized building environments by either choosing from a curated list of (building type, weather type, and city), or incorporating building and weather datasets of their own. To address the potential gap between the simulated configurations and the actual building dynamics, BEAR users can also efficiently train a data-driven model using self-collected dataset of their own. The proposed simulator supports fine-grained dynamics simulation and provides an OpenAI Gym interface [2] for developing RL agorithms. Researchers from the machine learning and RL community can design new environments and algorithms with minimal knowledge of the underlying building physical models and thus can focus more on algorithm development and evaluation. On the other hand, BEAR, with a physics-principled simulation engine, provides researchers and engineers an accessible platform to implement new building models with user-defined building structure, operation schedule, temperature, and other environmental variables. The primary characteristic that distinguishes BEAR from other building RL simulators is the physics-based modeling procedures as described in Section 2. Table 1 compares BEAR with some other RL environments for building control.
