# 1 INTRODUCTION

Building is one of the major sources of global energy consumption. In 2021, residential and commercial buildings were responsible for around 39% of total U.S. energy consumption and 74% of total U.S. electricity consumption [11]. Consequently, research on the operation of building Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems can lead to significant energy savings and carbon emission reduction. Many control methods have been developed to provide solutions for building HVAC control problems, including model predictive control, nonlinear adaptive control, and decentralized control [7][17]. However, most such approaches require detailed and exact building dynamics models, and an increase in the complexity of building dynamics would lead to significantly higher computational costs. As a result, reinforcement learning (RL) has

Yize Chen

AI Thrust, Information Hub

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

gained tremendous interest for building control in modern days due to its model-free nature (see [8] for a recent review).

One challenge of the building RL research is the lack of a benchmarking simulation environment for developing and evaluating different RL algorithms with realistic building models. Several recent works [1, 6, 15, 18, 20] have proposed simulation solutions to address such a problem. However, most of them adopted a cosimulation framework with a python interface for algorithm development and an outsourcing building simulator, like Energy-Plus [3] or Modelica [9]. For researchers who do not yet have detailed knowledge of such packages, it is hard to test with their own configurations and validate RL performance. BOPTESTS-Gym [1], Sinergym [6], and Gym-Eplus [20] rely on EnergyPlus or Modelica to perform simulation, and the BCVTB middleware [19] to communicate between simulators and the platform interface. Energym [15] uses predefined building models and co-simulation with EnergyPlus. CityLearn [18] is almost self-contained that it uses pre-simulated data. However, CityLearn focuses on building-level control interacting with the grid, rather than zone-level detailed building simulation.
