# 5.2. DDDP algorithm results

Fig. 2 (Scenario 1) and Figs. 6 and 7 (for Scenarios 2 and 3, respectively, see Appendix A) display the optimal state (speed) and control (acceleration) trajectories over each iteration of the DDDP algorithm. Note that, position trajectories are not included, as the differences in those trajectories, at each iteration, are small and barely visible. In each iteration, we consider a corridor $\Delta _ { C } ^ { ( l ) } = [ - { \cal C } \cdot \Delta a ^ { ( l ) } , { \cal C } \cdot \Delta a ^ { ( l ) } ]$ around the respective received state trajectories, which cannot of course extend out of the full state bounds.

In all Figs 2, 6 and 7, the dashed blue lines represent, for each iteration, the received trajectory, the solid orange lines represent the optimal trajectories derived, and the red dashed lines reflect the corresponding corridor bounds. For Scenario 1 (Fig. 2), it can be observed that, starting with the initial chosen discretization, the first DDDP iteration improves the initial trajectory, leading to a better solution, which is optimal within the considered sub-domain. In the second iteration, no further improvement can be achieved within the new sub-domain bounds, which means that, with the current discretization values, the best achievable solution has been reached. By reducing the discretization at the 3rd iteration, a reduction in the corridor width is observed, but the number of discrete points remains the same. This reduction enables further improvement of the solution, which remains the same in iteration 4; hence the discretisation is further reduced, leading to further improvement in iteration $5 ;$ and the procedure continues with iteration 6, where no further improvement is reached and the algorithm terminates, as the discretisation has reached the minimum required value. Similar behaviour is observed for Scenarios 2 and 3, where 10 iterations are required for convergence, and the respective Figs. 6 and 7 display a subset thereof. Table 2 contains the values of the objective function for each iteration of the DDDP algorithm for all scenarios, assuming $\Delta a = 0 . 5$ and $C = [ 2 0 , 4 ]$ , where the choice of these values will be explained in the following.
