The optimal $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ observer is the Kalman filter, which is such that $\bar { \mathcal { L } }$ is block-diagonal. This means that, even if $\Phi _ { w , 2 }$ and $\Phi _ { v , 2 }$ can be dense lower block-triangular matrices, $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 } ~ = ~ \Phi _ { w , 2 } ^ { - 1 } \Phi _ { v , 2 }$ is block diagonal. This is not included as a hard constraint in (18). The block-diagonality of $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 }$ appears naturally when $w _ { t }$ and $v _ { t }$ are not correlated between different time instants, because the Kalman filter is proven to be optimal (Kalman, 1960). The problem (18) is a relaxation of general $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ observers, which generalizes the Kalman filter and can therefore improve performance if the noise is correlated between different instants. This means that it gives a suitable benchmark for comparison. It will also be used later to formulate regret measures.

$\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ filtering: Similar to the $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ observer, Simon (2006) describes the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ observer as a solution to (5) with the cost

$$
\begin{array}{l} \operatorname{cost} _ {\infty} \left(e (\boldsymbol {v}, \boldsymbol {w}, \mathcal {L})\right) = \frac {1}{T} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T} \max_ {\substack {v _ {t} \in \mathbb {v} \\ w _ {t} \in \mathbb {w}}} \| e _ {t} \| _ {2} ^ {2}, \tag{19} \\ = \frac{1}{T}\max_{\substack{v||\mathcal{H}_{v}\boldsymbol {v}||_{2}\leq 1\\ w||\mathcal{H}_{w}\boldsymbol {w}||_{2}\leq 1}}\| \boldsymbol {e}\|_{2}^{2}. \\ \end{array}
$$

By using the change of variable $\pmb { v } _ { n } \ = \ \mathcal { H } _ { v } \pmb { v }$ and $\begin{array} { r l } { { \pmb w } _ { n } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $\mathcal { H } _ { w } \pmb { w }$ , one can rewrite the cost in terms of $\Phi _ { v }$ and $\Phi _ { w }$ as

$$
\operatorname{cost} _ {\infty} \left(\Phi_ {v}, \Phi_ {w}\right) = \frac {1}{T} \max_ {\substack {\| \boldsymbol {v} _ {n} \| _ {2} \leq 1 \\ \| \boldsymbol {w} _ {n} \| _ {2} \leq 1}} \left\| \left[ \Phi_ {v}, \Phi_ {w} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c c} \mathcal {H} _ {v} ^ {- 1} & 0 \\ 0 & \mathcal {H} _ {w} ^ {- 1} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} \boldsymbol {v} _ {n} \\ \boldsymbol {w} _ {n} \end{array} \right] \right\| _ {2} ^ {2}, \tag{20}
$$

where $\mathcal { H } _ { v }$ and $\mathcal { H } _ { w }$ are invertible because of Assumption 1. According to the definition of spectral norms, and as proven by Anderson et al. (2019), (19) is equal to
