On the other hand, the case of real-time signals with very short (e.g., second-by-second) control update periods is more complicated, as there is no exact prior knowledge of the next switching time. In this case, the best available knowledge can be presented as an estimate or as a probabilistic distribution for the next switching time within a shortterm future time-window. A comparison of several signal control methods with respect to traffic efficiency, plan stability and the resulting GLOSA performance is presented in (Blokpoel and Lu, 2017). In (Koukoumidis et al., 2011), a system called SignalGuru was developed, which detects and predicts the traffic signal timing using a collection of mobile phone data. Instead of a single estimate, Mahler and Vahidi (2012) produced a probability distribution for the next switching time based on past signal statistics. However, the available probability distribution is used heuristically (rather than optimally) to accordingly time-weigh the objective function within a deterministic optimal control problem that is solved via a dynamic programming (DP) algorithm. In (Sun et al., 2020), the uncertainty of traffic signal timing is considered as a data-driven chance-constrained robust optimization problem, where the red-light duration is defined as a random variable. A data-driven approach is adopted to formulate chance constraints, based on empirical sample data, and Dynamic Programming is employed to solve the optimization problem. In (Lawitzky et al., 2013), a stochastic optimal control problem was proposed, which uses a probabilistic distribution of the next signal switching time, and the problem is solved using a discrete stochastic dynamic programming (SDP) algorithm.
