A common dilemma, for a vehicle approaching a red traffic light, is whether it should slow down or maintain its speed at risk to stop if the traffic light has not switched to green at arrival. This dilemma may be addressed by appropriately designed on-board systems, which receive the current state and timing of the traffic signal and guide the driver (or an automated vehicle), while approaching the traffic light, by giving speed advice that ensures that the vehicle will cross the traffic signal at green and with minimum fuel consumption and emissions. Systems (or apps)

optimizing the vehicle approach to traffic lights are often referred to as Green Light Optimal Speed Advisory (GLOSA) systems (Stahlmann et al., 2016).

In the case of fixed signals, and hence prior knowledge of the next switching time, a corresponding message is broadcasted by the signal controller well before switching. Under these conditions, the problem of how to optimize the approach to traffic signals has been addressed in different ways, including rule-based algorithms (Katsaros et al., 2011; Sanchez et al., 2006; Ma et al., 2018) and optimal control approaches, which consider explicitly the vehicle kinematics and are, by their nature, more efficient in producing fuel-optimal speed profiles (Lawitzky et al., 2013; Typaldos et al., 2020a). Some of these works take into consideration additional factors, such as the car waiting queue. In (Yang et al., 2016), an eco-CACC (Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control) scheme was developed, where optimal speed trajectories were calculated by minimizing fuel-consumption and ensuring that the vehicles arrive at the intersection as soon as the last queued vehicle is discharged. An extension of this work for the case of multiple signalized intersections is presented in (Yang et al., 2020). In the literature, most existing GLOSA problems are focusing on developing strategies for a single vehicle, however, there are few works that approach the problem in case of platoons of vehicles in mixed traffic environment. In (Zhao et al., 2018), a model predictive control (MPC) approach was proposed that minimizes the fuelconsumption of a platoon of mixed vehicles (automated and human-driven vehicles) while crossing an intersection during the green phase.
