# 1. Introduction

In an era of climate crisis, actions toward environment protection are due in Transportation systems, which have a significant impact on environmental pollution and energy resources shortage. Improved fuel efficiency in road vehicles implies reduced fuel consumption, emissions and expenses for the driver. Efficient intelligent transportation systems, including real-time traffic signals, contribute to this effort. Traffic lights were introduced, in the first place, as a measure to ensure safe crossing of antagonistic streams of vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians at urban junctions. However, enforcing safety via traffic lights affects the fuel consumption, as some vehicles are obliged to fully stop in front of a red light; and then accelerate, after the traffic light switching to green. To reduce the resulting vehicle delays and number of stops, several algorithms have been proposed and deployed over the past decades, aiming at optimizing the traffic signals operation (Hounsell and McDonald, 2001; Papageorgiou et al., 2003; Kosmatopoulos et al., 2006). In this context, fuel consumption is increasingly considered as an optimization or evaluation criterion, while developing and deploying signal control systems (Jamshidnejad et al., 2017).

Fixed-time signal plans are derived offline based on historical constant demands; and are applied without deviations. This implies that switching times of the traffic lights are known in advance. In contrast, real-time signal control strategies make use of real-time measurements to compute in real time suitable signal settings. Depending on the employed signal control strategy, the control update period may range from one second to one signal cycle. Clearly, for real-time signals, the next switching time is not known before the switching decision has been actually made.
