# 3.3 Regret optimal observer

In this paper, we aim to minimize the worst-case dynamic regret, defined as

$$
\operatorname{regret} (\mathcal {L}, T) = \max_ {\substack {\boldsymbol {v} \in \mathbb {V} \\ \boldsymbol {w} \in \mathbb {W}}} \left(\operatorname{cost} (e (\boldsymbol {v}, \boldsymbol {w}, \mathcal {L})) - \underbrace {\min _ {\mathcal {K}} \operatorname{cost} (e (\boldsymbol {v} , \boldsymbol {w} , \mathcal {K}))} _ {= \operatorname{cost} (e (\boldsymbol {v}, \boldsymbol {w}, \mathcal {L} _ {n c}))}\right). \tag{26}
$$

With only the first term, (26) reduces to the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ cost. The second term provides a system-dependent baseline, which represents the best performance achievable by the system. From Lemma 3, this baseline is provided by the clairvoyant estimator. For any noise pattern, if the clairvoyant observer gives a perfect estimate, the difference between the two costs in (26) is equal to the cost of L only. However, this difference decreases if the clairvoyant observer also generates some error. This allows the regret measure to reduce the importance of situations in which some error is unavoidable, leading to a less conservative estimator than $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ . Moreover, since the clairvoyant estimator is $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ optimal (see (23a)), minimizing the regret amounts to minimizing the suboptimality that a robust observer $\mathcal { L }$ induces.

Directly computing the minimal regret observer $\begin{array} { r l } { \mathcal { L } _ { r } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ arg mi $^ { 1 } { \mathcal { L } }$ regret(L, T ) would be very complex due to the nested optimization problems, as well as the non-convexity of (26) in terms of ${ \bar { \mathcal { L } } } .$ In the sequel, we compute $\mathcal { L } _ { r }$ from $\Phi _ { v }$ and $\Phi _ { w } .$ , by adopting the approach used in Martin et al. (2022) for designing regret-based controllers.

Theorem 4. For quadratic costs and if either $\mathcal { L } _ { n c } \ o r \Phi _ { v , n c }$ and $\Phi _ { w , n c }$ are known, the minimal regret observer is given by $\mathcal { L } _ { r } = { \Phi _ { w , r } } ^ { - 1 } \Phi _ { v , r }$ , where

$$\left\{\Phi_ {v, r}, \Phi_ {w, r} \right\} = \underset {\Phi_ {v}, \Phi_ {w}} {\arg \min} \operatorname{regret} (\Phi_ {w} ^ {- 1} \Phi_ {v}, T), \tag {27}$$

s.t. $\Phi _ { w } ^ { - 1 } \Phi .$ v lower block-triangular,

$$= \underset {\Phi_ {v}, \Phi_ {w}} {\arg \min} \underset {\lambda} {\min} \lambda , \tag {28}$$
