# 1. INTRODUCTION

A key contribution on the problem of estimating the state and predicting future outputs of a linear system was provided in the seminal paper by Kalman (1960). This work provided the basis for $\bar { \mathcal { H } } _ { 2 }$ (i.e., least squares error) state estimation, which had a tremendous success in aerospace, and in many other applications later. However, for several industrial processes, the performance of $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ filtering can be questionable due to the poor modeling of the systems involved (Simon, 2006). In several industrial plants, the process noise (also called disturbance) often includes different forms of uncertainty, therefore rendering the Gaussian assumption flawed. This has motivated the industry to also turn towards estimators optimized for worst case scenarios $( \mathcal { H } _ { \infty } )$ , as described in the pioneering work of Zames (1981). Another approach introduced in Luenberger (1971) consists in stabilizing the error dynamics, such that errors in the initial state estimate are eventually rejected by the estimator. This approach is much simpler to implement but lacks optimal performance or robustness. Today, the $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ , $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ , and Luenberger observers are the dominating paradigms in industrial applications (Simon, 2006).

The $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ filter has proven to work well in practice, and it adresses the reliance of $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ filters on Gaussian noise and known system dynamics. However, doing so, it loses the optimality properties of $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ methods. The tradeoff between optimal performance and robustness can be optimized using mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ methods (Bernstein and Haddad, 1989; Yaz et al., 1992). However, the relative weights of both components are not tuned according to the disturbance patterns affecting the system, but need to be set a-priori. In order to optimize the benefits and drawbacks of each method automatically, one can use a measure of regret compared to an observer that would know the future in advance.
