# 5.1. Scenarios Setup

For the evaluation, several scenarios have been considered in various situations, such as cases where the vehicle needs to accelerate or decelerate before or after the traffic signal; or cases where the vehicle is forced to fully stop and wait until the traffic light switches from red to green. For this paper, three scenarios have been chosen for demonstration with full illustration of state and control trajectories, according to Table 1. For consistency, the chosen scenarios are the same as in previous related works (Typaldos et al., 2020a, 2021). All scenarios concern mixed accelerationdeceleration cases. However, in Scenario 1, the vehicle starts with low initial speed and needs to mostly accelerate in order to optimally pass the traffic signal. On the other hand, in Scenarios 2 and 3, the vehicle starts at higher speed, hence it needs to mostly decelerate to avoid a full stop at the traffic signal. Compared to Scenarios 1 and 2, in Scenario 3 the vehicle starts closer to the traffic light, which leads to a full stop for few time steps before the traffic signal switches from red to green.

For all evaluated scenarios, the weight parameter 𝑤 in (3) is equal to 0.1. The bounds for the states and control are set to $[ x _ { m i n } , x _ { m a x } ] = [ 0 , 1 5 0 ] \mathrm { m } , [ v _ { m i n } , v _ { m a x } ] = [ 0 , 1 6 ]$ m/s and $[ a _ { m i n } , a _ { m a x } ] = [ - 3 , 3 ] \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s } ^ { 2 }$ , respectively. The time step

Table 1 Investigated scenarios.

<table><tr><td></td><td> $x_0$  (m)</td><td> $v_0$  (m/s)</td><td> $x_e$  (m)</td><td> $v_e$  (m/s)</td><td> $x_1$  (m)</td></tr><tr><td>Scenario 1</td><td>0</td><td>5</td><td>220</td><td>11</td><td>150</td></tr><tr><td>Scenario 2</td><td>0</td><td>11</td><td>220</td><td>11</td><td>150</td></tr><tr><td>Scenario 3</td><td>50</td><td>11</td><td>220</td><td>11</td><td>150</td></tr></table>
