# 2.3 Sliding mode control

Sliding mode control is a nonlinear control method and it belongs to a variable structure control. See, e.g., [9, 10] for details. In the sliding mode control, the state of the plant system goes from the initial point towards a subspace of the state space called a sliding surface, which is called reaching mode. After reaching the sliding surface, the state variable evolves along the desired dynamics on the surface, which is called sliding mode. The control input is designed so that the state reaches the sliding surface in a finite time and stays there. It often employs a discontinuous high gain input so that the state variable is constrained to the sliding surface.

Here, we consider a general input-affine nonlinear system

$$\dot {x} = f (x) + g (x) u$$

with $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ . The symbol $\sigma ( x ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ denotes a sliding variable. The sliding surface is given by $\sigma ( x ) = 0 .$ , which is designed to achieve the desired dynamics in the sliding mode. In many cases, sliding mode controllers consist of discontinuous functions so that the closed-loop systems include the following dynamics

$$\dot {\sigma} _ {i} = - \lambda_ {i} \operatorname{sgn} \sigma_ {i}, \quad i = 1, 2, \dots , m, \tag {4}$$

where $\lambda _ { i } \mathbf { \bar { s } }$ are positive constants. Here, $\operatorname { s g n } ( { \mathord { \cdot } } )$ is the signum function defined by

$$
\operatorname{sgn} z \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} = 1 & (z > 0) \\ \in [ - 1, 1 ] & (z = 0) \\ = - 1 & (z <   0) \end{array} \right..
$$

If its argument is a vector $x = ( x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } ) ^ { \mathsf { T } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , then

$$\operatorname{sgn} x = \left(\operatorname{sgn} x _ {1}, \dots , \operatorname{sgn} x _ {n}\right) ^ {\top}.$$

By using such input, we can ensure that the sliding variable $\sigma ( x )$ converges to zero in a finite time. Then the state variable evolves along the desired dynamics on the sliding surface $\overset { \vartriangle } { \boldsymbol { \sigma } } ( \boldsymbol { x } ) = \bar { \boldsymbol { 0 } }$ .
