# II. ENERGY SHAPING AND DAMPING INJECTION

Energy shaping and damping injection methods are well known in robotics and the control of electromechanical systems in general [14], [23]. The core idea is that a passive system may store energy, route it between ports or dissipate it, but it may not produce energy. When two passive systems are connected together by compatible ports, then the resulting combined system is passive. The shaping of the energy function changes the equilibria of the system, a feature that can be used to control the robot to a desired position. The damping removes energy, affecting the speed of convergence. In general, the design of an energy shaping and damping injection controller to stabilize a nonlinear system at a particular equilibrium could require solving a partial differential equation [14]. However, for fully actuated mechanical systems we can take a shortcut. Consider a robot system

$$M (q) \ddot {q} + C (q, \dot {q}) \dot {q} + g (q) = u$$

with energy $\begin{array} { r } { H ( q , \dot { q } ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \dot { q } ^ { T } M ( q ) \dot { q } + U ( q ) } \end{array}$ , where $M ( q ) =$ $M ( q ) ^ { T } \succ 0$ is the generalized inertia matrix and $U ( q )$ the gravitational potential energy. The gravity force/torque vector is obtained by taking the partial derivative of the gravitational potential energy: $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { g ( q ) } = \frac { \partial U } { \partial q } ( q ) } \end{array}$ . The simplest way to shape the energy function is to select

$$H _ {d} (q, \dot {q}) = \frac {1}{2} \dot {q} ^ {T} M (q) \dot {q} + \frac {1}{2} (q - \bar {q}) ^ {T} \mathrm{diag} (k) (q - \bar {q}),$$

where the elements of the vector k are all strictly positive (stiffness terms). This can be achieved with the controller

$$u = \mathrm{diag} (k) (\bar {q} - q) + \frac {\partial U (q)}{\partial q} - \mathrm{diag} (b) \dot {q},$$

where the vector b has strictly positive elements. The term $- \mathrm { d i a g } ( b ) { \dot { q } }$ ensures dissipation and guarantees that the system trajectories converge asymptotically to the minimum of this energy function at $q \ = \ \bar { q }$ and $\dot { q } \ = \ 0 .$ This is of course joint-space control with gravity compensation. Its simplicity and mechanical interpretability as springs and damper at the robot’s joints makes it one of the most used approaches in industrial robotics.
