# 5. SIMULATION AND ANALYSIS

In this section, we provide simulations of the emulations per Theorem 1 (Fig. 2(a)) and per the Suboptimal QS-$\mathrm { \bar { M P C } }$ of Algorithm 1 $\left( \mathrm { F i g . 2 ( b ) } \right)$ with the same initial conditions. The LTI system we try to emulate is ${ \dot { x } } \ =$ $H x = \left\lceil \frac { 0 } { - 1 } \frac { 1 } { - 2 } \right\rceil$ x with all its eigenvalues located in the left-half plane. The quantized system we choose is $x _ { q } ( k +$ $h ) = A _ { q } x ( k ) + h B _ { q } u ( k ) = e ^ { H h } x _ { q } ( k ) + h \left[ \begin{array} { l l l } { 1 } & { 0 } & { - 1 } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { 1 } & { 0 } & { - 1 } \end{array} \right] u ( k ) ,$ , where $u ( k ) \in \{ - 1 , 1 , 0 \} ^ { m }$ and time step $h = 0 . 2$ . In the cost function, we design $P = \left\lceil \stackrel { 5 0 } { 0 } \ \stackrel { 0 } { 5 0 } \right\rceil , Q = \left\lceil \stackrel { 0 . 1 } { 0 } \ 0 . 1 \right\rceil$ to guarantee the condition (b) in Theorem 2 and Algorithm 1 hold. The choice of $P , Q$ also influence the emulation performance: a large diagonal-valued P matrix implies that we are more concerned with predicting the future at the expense of optimality in the current state. To ensure the tracking performance is satisfactory, we choose a proper predicted window size $N ~ = ~ 1 0$ . The weight matrix R in the cost function is set to be $0 . 0 5 * \bar { \mathbb { I } } _ { m } .$ . Since if R is too large, the optimal input tends to be zero resulting in no emulation process; if R is zero, it may have singular solutions. We adopt the solver Cplex (2013) to solve the integer programming optimization problem (4) and obtain the results shown in Fig. 2. Gray and blue trajectories are the LTI system starting from the points $\{ ( \bar { 2 c o s \alpha } , 2 s i n \alpha ) : \alpha = \bar { 0 } , \pi / 4 , \cdot \cdot \cdot , 2 \pi \}$ , while red ones are the quantized system from $\{ ( c o s ( \alpha ) , s i n ( \alpha ) ) : , \alpha =$ $0 , \pi / 4 , \cdots , 2 \pi \}$ . It can be observed that both quantized systems asymptotically converge to the linear system, although the relaxed constraints emulating algorithm has a larger cumulated error. Meanwhile, we also find the cost function J is strictly decreasing and converging rapidly to zero, which convincingly validates theorem 2. Fig. 3 is an emulation with $A = \mathbb { I } _ { n }$ and all initial points on the unit circle. It illustrates that the emulation trajectory is stable but not asymptotically converging to the equilibrium, which is exhibited in the brown circle.
