# C. $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis for energy shaping and damping injection

The method discussed in Section IV-B synthesizes statefeedback gains with guaranteed performances. However, the derived state-feedback controller does not match the energy shaping and damping injection structure of Section II. In particular, for the synthesis of stiffness and damping parameters vectors k and b we need

• a state-feedback $K ~ = ~ \left[ K _ { 1 } K _ { 2 } \right]$ with block diagonal matrices $K _ { 1 } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( k )$ and $K _ { 2 } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( b )$ ;   
• all the elements of $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ must be strictly positive, to guarantee that the control action (2), (3) leads to a passive controlled robot.

To achieve this, we propose below a modified LMI problem with additional constraints to ensure that $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are positive definite diagonal matrices. These diagonality constraints lead to a conservative LMI formulation, but any solution leads to a controller that guarantees passivity and local performances in terms of $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 }$ gain γ, as clarified in Theorem 1.

LMI 2: sparse $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis and passivity   
Find $Q_{11}, Q_{12}, Q_{22}, L_1, L_2 \in \mathbb{R}^{N \times N}$ s.t. $Q_{11}, Q_{12}, Q_{22}, L_1, L_2$ are all diagonal matrices $Q = \begin{bmatrix} Q_{11} & Q_{12} \\ Q_{12} & Q_{22} \end{bmatrix} \succ 0$ , $Q_{12} \prec 0$ $L = [L_1, L_2]$ , $L_1 \succ 0$ , $L_2 \succ 0$ $\overline{M}(\mathcal{P}_i, \gamma, Q, L) \prec 0$ for each linearization $\mathcal{P}_i$

Lemma 1: For any solution to LMI 2, take K1 ∈ RN×N $K _ { 1 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$ and $K _ { 2 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$ such that $[ K _ { 1 } \ K _ { 2 } ] = L Q ^ { - 1 }$ .

Then, $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are diagonal positive definite matrices.

Theorem 1: Let $q _ { i } ^ { * }$ be the selection of poses with associated linearization $\mathcal { P } _ { i }$ in LMI 2. For any solution to LMI 2, take k and b in (3) such that $[ \mathrm { d i a g } ( k ) ~ \mathrm { d i a g } ( b ) ] = L Q ^ { - 1 }$ .

Then, the controlled robot (2), (3), (4)

• is passive at any port $\left( F _ { e } , \dot { z } _ { e } \right)$ ;   
• satisfies the local $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 }$ gain

$$
\left\| \left[ \begin{array}{c} W _ {1} (z _ {d} - h _ {d} (q _ {i} ^ {*})) \\ W _ {2} \dot {z _ {d}} \end{array} \right] \right\| _ {2} \leq \gamma \| F _ {d} \| _ {2}
$$

for initial condition and reference $z _ { c } ( 0 ) = r = h _ { c } ( q _ { i } ^ { * } )$ , for any sufficiently small $F _ { d }$ .

Theorem 1 clarifies that the control action obtained from LMI 2 guarantees passivity of the controlled robot at any port $( F _ { e } , \dot { z } _ { e } )$ , where $F _ { e }$ is a vector of forces (or torques) and $\dot { z } _ { e }$ is the corresponding vector of co-located velocities (or angular velocities). This is crucial for stable interaction. In fact if $J _ { c }$ is full rank the controller guarantees strict output passivity. At the same time, the controller guarantees local performances, as long as the perturbing force $F _ { d }$ is small enough to not invalidate the linear approximation (7).
