# 1 Introduction

Port-Hamiltonian systems are a class of nonlinear systems described by Hamilton’s canonical equation, and many physical systems are described in this form, e.g., mechanical systems [1], electro-mechanical systems[2], nonholonomic systems [3], and so on. In order to stabilize such systems, passivity-based control techniques are often employed. For the class of systems, the Hamiltonian function, which represents the total energy of the system, is reshaped by an appropriate input so that the resulting closed-loop system has a desired Hamiltonian function which serves as a Lyapunov function candidate. This method is called energy shaping, and many related techniques have been proposed so far, e.g.[4, 5]. Kinetic-potential energy shaping (KPES) method [6] is one of these methods for mechanical port-Hamiltonian systems. It allows us to select a class of potential functions whose arguments are both configuration and momentum. Related works have been studied, e.g., [7, 8].

On the other hand, sliding mode control is a nonlinear control method belonging to variable structure control, and the controller is known to be robust against model uncertainties and external disturbances. See, e.g., [9, 10] for details. In this method, the state of the plant system is enforced to be constrained in a subspace called a sliding surface where the state of the system evolves according to the desired dynamics. To achieve sliding mode control, discontinuous high gain feedback is employed to enforce the state to the sliding surface. However, such input induces chattering problems, which may damage the plant system. For this problem, some methods to alleviate the chattering phenomena have been studied, e.g., replacing the discontinuous input with a continuous one [9], high-order sliding mode control [11], and super-twisting algorithm [12].
