[6]. However, in practice, there is little guidance on the selection of desired impedances. In fact, the recent review [19] concludes that there is a need to establish more systematic guidance or methodology on how to specify the impedance parameters, such as desired stiffness, damping and inertia.

In the recent review paper [11], Hogan pointed out that a reasonable choice of desired stiffness and damping matrices is diagonal, based on criteria of simplicity and effectiveness. We describe in Section II how this method of impedance control corresponds to energy shaping and damping injection. In fact, drawing on the mechanical analogy of the controller as a virtual mechanical system [15], this method corresponds to the interconnection of the robot with a system of Cartesian (or otherwise 1-dimensional) virtual springs and dampers. In [21] Van der Schaft also remarks that optimising among achievable impedances for a task is an important problem that needs to be studies in more depth. Some existing approaches for selecting impedances involve machine learning for variable impedance control [1], [3], but by varying the stiffness, passivity of the controller is lost. Methods to preserve passivity exist, such as tank-based variable impedance control [7], but using this approach requires a careful consideration to ensure that “energy-tanks” do not deplete [16], hindering performance.

This paper contributes to the challenge of impedance selection / optimization, by casting the problem into a robust control problem. Our approach takes advantage of the robot linearization in operation space. In this setting, a static-state feedback $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ synthesis can be performed to systematically select feedback gains. Our design is based on linear matrix inequalities and forces the feedback gains to be diagonal and positive, which corresponds to synthesising a set of diagonal passive impedances, as suggested in [11]. This provides a systematic approach to selecting impedance parameters for a common class of impedance controllers, based on criteria of optimality with respect to $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ metrics.
