Recently, the authors have proposed a prototype of a passivity-based sliding mode controller for mechanical and electro-mechanical port-Hamiltonian systems [13, 14]. By selecting a non-smooth function as an artificial potential function with kinetic-potential energy shaping, the resulting controller works as a sliding mode controller. Since sliding mode control is achieved in the framework of passivity-based control, Lyapunov stability is ensured even if the input is replaced by a smooth approximation of the sliding mode control law to alleviate chattering phenomena.

In this paper, we proposed a new passivity-based controller that achieves sliding mode control and Lyapunov stability simultaneously. Firstly, we generalize the KPES method so that the closed-loop system has an artificial potential function whose argument is nonlinear with respect to both configuration and momentum, whereas such argument is linear with respect to momentum in the previous methods [6, 13]. Secondly, we show that sliding mode control is realized with Lyapunov stability by selecting an appropriate potential function. In the authors’ former result [13], the closed-loop system consists of multiple scalar sliding mode subsystems. Such a realization requires a restrictive condition to be satisfied. On the other hand, we prove the stability of multiple sliding modes which can be realized under a relaxed condition. This result makes it possible to apply the proposed method to several control problems, particularly, to trajectory tracking control. In addition, we relax the design condition to achieve sliding mode that allows additional freedom in selecting artificial potential functions. Utilizing such additional freedom, a parameterization of stabilizing controllers consisting of both standard passivity-based (Lyapunov based) controllers and sliding mode ones is obtained. Thus, we can freely adjust the trade-off between robustness against external disturbances and undesired chattering vibration without losing Lyapunov stability. Furthermore, for the control system to which the proposed method is adopted, the robustness against matched and unmatched disturbances is analyzed. A numerical example shows how the proposed controller works.
