# D. Proofs

Proof of Lemma 1. Define

$$
P = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} P _ {1 1} & P _ {1 2} \\ P _ {1 2} ^ {T} & P _ {2 2} \end{array} \right] = Q ^ {- 1}. \tag {9}
$$

Then,

$$\left[ K _ {1} K _ {2} \right] = \left[ L _ {1} L _ {2} \right] P = \left[ L _ {1} P _ {1 1} + L _ {2} P _ {1 2} ^ {T} L _ {1} P _ {1 2} + L _ {2} P _ {2 2} \right]. \tag {10}$$

Note also that, by block inversion, $Q ^ { - 1 } = R _ { 1 } R _ { 2 }$ where

$$
R _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} (Q _ {1 1} - Q _ {1 2} Q _ {2 2} ^ {- 1} Q _ {1 2} ^ {T}) ^ {- 1} & 0 \\ 0 & (Q _ {2 2} - Q _ {1 2} ^ {T} Q _ {1 1} ^ {- 1} Q _ {1 2}) ^ {- 1} \end{array} \right]

R _ {2} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} I & - Q _ {1 2} Q _ {2 2} ^ {- 1} \\ - Q _ {1 2} ^ {T} Q _ {1 1} ^ {- 1} & I \end{array} \right].
$$

With these definitions we can now prove that $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are diagonal matrices. Recall that if a matrix is diagonal, it remains so after inversion and transposition. Furthermore, product and sum of diagonal matrices lead to diagonal matrices. Since $P = R _ { 1 } R _ { 2 }$ , this implies that $P _ { 1 1 } , P _ { 1 2 } , P _ { 2 2 }$ are diagonal matrices. Thus, from (10), also $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are diagonal matrices.

We can also prove that $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are positive definite. For instance, recall that $Q \succ 0$ implies $P \succ 0$ , therefore $Q _ { 1 1 } \succ 0 , Q _ { 2 2 } \succ 0 , P _ { 1 1 } \succ 0$ , and $P _ { 2 2 } \succ 0$ Furthermore, recall that inversion preserve positivity, and that the product and the sum of two positive diagonal matrices are positive and diagonal. Thus, using again $P = R _ { 1 } R _ { 2 }$ , we have

$$P _ {1 2} = \underbrace {P _ {1 1}} _ {\succ 0} (\underbrace {- Q _ {1 2}} _ {\succ 0}) \underbrace {Q _ {2 2} ^ {- 1}} _ {\succ 0} \succ 0,$$

where we have used the assumption $Q _ { 1 2 } \prec 0$ in LMI 2. Finally, using (10) with $L _ { 1 } \succ 0$ and $L _ { 2 } \succ 0$ from LMI 2, we can conclude that $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are positive definite. 

Proof of Theorem 1.

We first prove passivity. Consider the controller (2), (3). By Lemma 1, diag(k) and diag(b) are positive definite matrices. For the robot equations extended with a generic additional port

$$M (q) \ddot {q} + C (q, \dot {q}) \dot {q} + g (q) = u _ {c} + J _ {e} (q) ^ {T} F _ {e} \tag {11}z _ {e} = h _ {e} (q).$$

where $\begin{array} { r } { J _ { e } ( q ) = \frac { \partial h _ { e } ( q ) } { \partial q } } \end{array}$ , consider the energy function (1). This is a well defined energy function since dia $\mathrm { g } ( k ) \succ 0$ . Then,
