The previous results were constrained to time-invariant communication, yet time-varying communication networks are equally important. Addressing this topic, Jadbabaie et al. (2003) and Ren and Beard (2005) offered a proof for reaching consensus for multi-agent systems under dynamically changing interaction topologies. In (Ren and Beard, 2005), it is proven that a necessary condition for reaching consensus in time-varying communication networks with a fixed number of agents is that the union of the directed graphs representing the interconnection among agents has a spanning tree. The finding from (Ren and Beard, 2005) was successfully extended (Mondal and Tsourdos, 2022) to agents with nonlinear dynamics by using nonlinear dynamic inversion. In (Li and Zhang, 2010), the authors investigated the consensus problem in uncertain communication environments and designed a distributed stochastic approximation consensus protocol. Similarly, as in (Ren and Beard, 2005), the necessary condition for achieving consensus is that the union of graphs has a spanning tree.

In all the above-mentioned works, the results are mainly focused on reaching an average consensus in a leaderless communication network where the number of agents is fixed. However, in the case of H-MAS, the communication networks typically consider a leader-follower architecture. In this case, the dynamics of the leader are crucial for reaching consensus. From (Shao et al., 2018), it is known that if the leader contains self-loops, stability problems can arise. Additionally, these authors investigated the impact of hierarchical topologies and followers’ self-loops on the convergence performance of leader–follower consensus, including the convergence rate and robustness to switching topologies. A similar study was done in (Shokri and Kebriaei, 2020), where stochastic agents were considered. Different from the above-mentioned examples, Shokri and Kebriaei (2020) use a gossiping communication algorithm that limits the communication per sampling time to only one agent.
