In the present article we study the performances of Langevin optimizers on SOC problems where the number of discretization times where the control is applied is large enough. We use the preconditioned versions of SGD and SGLD [LCCC16] for various choices of preconditioners. We compare side-by-side Langevin and non-Langevin algorithms and we show that Langevin optimizers can significantly improve the training procedure on various problems: fishing quotas [LPP21], deep hedging [BGTW19], oil drilling and resource management [GGKL21]. We mainly consider two different approaches for numerical resolution of SOCs. In the first approach, the control is a single neural network which is applied to every time step and which may depend on the running time t (see Figure 1). This approach leads to a model with fewer trainable parameters, which is critical in some data-driven financial applications where the amount of data is limited, and which is more able to capture the specific Markovian features of the problem. In the second approach, a different neural network is used for each control time (see Figure 2). This last setting is also suitable for applying the Layer Langevin algorithm, which is a variant of the Langevin algorithm introduced in [Bra22] and which proved to be more adapted to the training of very deep neural networks than the Langevin algorithm itself.

We observe that the gains of Langevin algorithms depend on the preconditioner however. While the Adam [KB15] and the Adadelta [Zei12] algorithms can be substantially accelerated by Langevin training, the gains are more limited or sometimes null for RMSprop [TH12].

The code for the numerical experiments is available at https://github.com/Bras-P/langevin-for-stochastic-contr It includes in particular ready-to-use Langevin optimizers and Layer Langevin optimizers as instances of the TensorFlow Optimizer base class, a framework for algorithm comparison in a SOC setting with GPU support and a demonstration notebook.

Notations: For x and y two vectors we define the Schur product x∗y as the vector $( x _ { i } y _ { i } ) _ { i }$ i. We also sometimes use the notation ∗ for scalar-vector multiplication. For $a , b \in \mathbb { N }$ we denote $\mathcal { M } _ { a , b } ( \mathbb { R } )$ the set of $a \times b$ matrices with real-valued coefficients. For $x \in \mathbb { R }$ we define the positive part of x denoted $x _ { + }$ as max $( x , 0 )$ . We consider multivariate $( \mathcal { F } _ { t } )$ -Brownian motions W and B defined on some filtered probability space $( \Omega , { \mathcal { F } } , ( { \mathcal { F } } _ { t } ) _ { t \in [ 0 , T ] } ) , \mathbb { P } )$ .
