Proof. Consider a system with the agent dynamics as (4) and (5), a controller as (19) and the switching algorithm from (17). Then a closed-loop system dynamics is defined as in (20).

Due to (25), for all $k \in \mathbb { N } , \mathcal { G } _ { i } ^ { ' } ( k )$ has a spanning tree. Consequently, (21) is primitive row-stochastic, meaning that $\mathcal { P } ( k )$ is nonnegative and has positive diagonal elements. That can easily observed if (21) is rewritten as

$$\boldsymbol {\mathcal {P}} (k) = \mathbf {I} _ {N + 1} - w k _ {f b} \mathcal {D} (k) + w k _ {f b} \mathcal {A} (k). \tag {27}$$

From (Wolfowitz, 1963), it is known that any primitive rowstochastic matrix $( \mathcal { P } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n } \mathbf { \Lambda } )$ has an invariant path to the steady-state, i.e.

$$\lim _ {j \to \infty} (\mathcal {P}) ^ {j} = \mathbf {1} _ {n} c ^ {\top}, \tag {28}$$

where n is the dimension of matrix P and $c \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is a column vector representing the left eigenvector of P associated with the eigenvalue $\lambda = 1 ,$ . Note that we call an invariant path the term in the right-hand side of (28).

Given (24), it is known that union of all the graphs $( \bar { \pmb { \mathscr { G } } } )$ is invariant with respect to $\sigma ( m )$ , covers all the agents and has a spanning tree. Hence, using Lemma 4 and the property from (28), we can infer that (20) will have an invariant path as in (28) and will reach consensus. The previous statement is verified in three steps:

(i) Given $\pmb { x } ( 0 )$ , consider the solution of (20) as the infinite sequence of $\pmb { x } ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N + 1 }$ , i.e.

$$\boldsymbol {x} (k + 1) = \boldsymbol {\mathcal {P}} (k) \boldsymbol {x} (k) \quad \text { with } k \in \mathbb {N}. \tag {29}$$

(ii) Since $\mathcal { P } ( k )$ has a periodic behaviour, due to (17), decompose $\pmb { x } ( k )$ in a finite number of subsequences $b _ { n } ^ { i } .$ , such that

$$\boldsymbol {x} (k) = \bigcup_ {i = 0} ^ {p - 2} b _ {n} ^ {i} \tag {30}$$

with

$$
\begin{array}{l} b _ {n} ^ {0} = \{\boldsymbol {x} (0), \boldsymbol {x} (p - 1), \boldsymbol {x} (2 p - 2), \dots \} \\ b _ {n} ^ {1} = \{\boldsymbol {x} (1), \boldsymbol {x} (p), \boldsymbol {x} (2 p - 1), \dots \} \\ b _ {n} ^ {2} = \{\boldsymbol {x} (2), \boldsymbol {x} (p + 1), \boldsymbol {x} (2 p), \dots \} \tag {31} \\ \end{array}
b _ {n} ^ {p - 2} = \{\boldsymbol {x} (p - 2), \boldsymbol {x} (2 p - 3), \boldsymbol {x} (3 p - 5), \dots \}$$
