However, if the neural control is applied at many time steps as it is the case for the Euler-Maruyama scheme where the (discrete) control is taken as an approximation of a continuous control, then the SOC problem reads as the optimization of a very deep neural network, which is roughly as deep as the number of instants at which the control can be applied (see Figures 1 and 2). Very deep neural networks are known to be considerably more difficult to train [GB10, DPG+14] and may run into vanishing gradient problems [Hoc91, Han18]. Indeed, the deeper the neural network is, the more non-linear it is, thus increasing the number of local traps for the gradient descent such as local (but not global) and saddle points. In image analysis where very deep convolutional neural networks are commonly used, residual [HZRS16] and convolutional dense [HLVDMW17] networks were introduced to deal with this issue. These networks are based on architectures with residual connections to propagate the gradient information through the numerous successive layers.

As it comes to deep SOC, we cannot freely change the structure of the neural network since it is fixed by the equations defining the SOC problem and therefore we cannot directly use residual connections. We can only freely choose the structure of the neural network returning the control, for which a few layers is often enough (see for example [BGTW19, BHLP22]).

A way to improve the learning is to replace SGD algorithms by Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics (SGLD) algorithms. Such optimizers add an exogenous white noise to the gradient descent, providing regularization and allowing to escape from traps. It has indeed been observed that adding noise improves the learning for very deep neural networks [NVL+15, Ani19, GMDB16, SLH+19]. Moreover, [Bra22] compares side-by-side Langevin with non-Langevin algorithms on networks with increasing depth and shows that for shallow neural networks, Langevin algorithms do nothing else than adding noise to the gradient descent, however the deeper the network is, the greater the gains provided by Langevin algorithms are.
