$$
\binom{\dot {q}}{\dot {\eta}} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} - T \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} ^ {\top} \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} ^ {- \top} & T \\ - T ^ {\top} & - \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} ^ {- 1} \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} T \end{array} \right) \binom{\nabla_ {q} H _ {\mathrm{smc}}}{\nabla_ {\eta} H _ {\mathrm{smc}}},
H _ {\mathrm{smc}} (q, \eta) = \frac {1}{2} \| \eta \| ^ {2} + U (\phi (q, \eta)). \tag {16}$$

Furthermore, if Assumptions 1 and 2 hold, then the sliding variable $\sigma \equiv \phi ( q , \eta )$ is enforced to converge to zero after a finite time transient, and the origin of the closed-loop system (16) is asymptotically stable with the Lyapunov function Hsmc. $H _ { \mathrm { s m c } } .$

Proof. Since the partial derivatives of $U ( q , \eta )$ with respect to q and η are calculated as (9) and (10), it is proved by a direct calculation that the port-Hamiltonian system (3) is transformed into the closed-loop system (16) by the input (15). This proves the first part of this theorem.

Next, to prove finite time convergence of the sliding variable σ, let us apply the following coordinate transformation

$$\binom {q} {\eta} \mapsto \binom {\sigma} {\eta} = \binom {\phi (q, \eta)} {\eta}. \tag {17}$$

Then the closed-loop system is represented as follows:

$$
\binom{\dot {\sigma}}{\dot {\eta}} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} - \Lambda & 0 \\ - \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} ^ {- 1} \Lambda & - \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} ^ {- 1} \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} T \end{array} \right) \binom{\nabla_ {\sigma} H _ {\mathrm{smc}}}{\nabla_ {\eta} H _ {\mathrm{smc}}},
H _ {\mathrm{smc}} = \frac {1}{2} \| \eta \| ^ {2} + U (\sigma).$$

We can see that the dynamics of sliding variable σ is

$$\dot {\sigma} = - \Lambda (q, \eta) \nabla_ {\sigma} U (\sigma). \tag {18}$$

Now, let us consider $U ( \sigma )$ as a Lyapunov function candidate and prove that there exists a constant $a \geq 1$ satisfying

$$\dot {U} \leq - \frac {\varepsilon c ^ {2}}{a ^ {2}} U ^ {2 \rho} \tag {19}$$

along the closed loop system (16). Equation (19) is proved in multiple cases such as reaching mode and sliding modes. First of all, for the reaching mode, i.e., σi 6= 0 for ∀i, the following inequality holds from Assumptions 1 and 2
