(a) Aq = eHh; $A _ { q } = e ^ { H h }$   
(b) the symmetric positive definite matrices $P , Q$ satisfy $\overset { \cdot } { Q } - \overset { \cdot } { P } + \overset { \cdot } { A } _ { q } ^ { T } P A _ { q } \prec \overset { \cdot } { 0 }$ .

The proof of Theorem 1 is given in the appendix.

Remark 1. Most quantized systems will not asymptotically converge to an equilibrium but only to a neighborhood of it. However, in this case, once the states approach the origin, the optimal input sequence can be zero, and the state transition matrix $A _ { q }$ has all its eigenvalues inside the unit circle. Therefore, the QS-MPC is asymptotically stable.

Remark 2. From Theorem 1, we find there are strict conditions on matrices $A _ { q } , \ P ,$ and Q. However, it is guaranteed that such $P , Q$ exist since $- P + A _ { a } ^ { T } P A _ { q } \prec 0$ . As long as the least eigenvalue of $P$ is much larger than the largest one of $Q { \mathrm { . } }$ , we may find such matrices.

Next, we provide a relaxed condition to achieve this emulation but without the asymptotic tracking feature. Instead of setting $A _ { q } = e ^ { H h }$ , we assume it is Schur stable. The main idea is to cancel the influence of $A _ { q }$ matrix with $B _ { q }$ in (3). Since $B _ { q }$ has a large number of columns, directions formed by $B _ { q } \bar { u }$ can have the dominant influence on $x _ { q } ( k + 1 )$ . Without loss of generality, we assume the sampling interval is $h = 1$ .

Lemma 1. When utilizing the quantized system (3) to emulate the LTI system and without loss of generality, assume the equilibrium of the LTI is the origin. If $A _ { q }$ is Schur stable, (3) can track the stable LTI system (2) by solving the optimization problem (4).

Proof. Since $A _ { q }$ is Schur stable, when there is no input $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } u ( t ) = \mathbf { 0 } ^ { m } )$ , the quantized system will converge to the origin. By solving the optimization MPC problem (4), it can decrease the error  between these two systems, and the maximum error bound can be expressed as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \epsilon_ {m a x} \leq \max \left\{\max \left\{\left| \left| A _ {q} ^ {t} x _ {q} (k) - e ^ {H t} x _ {r e f} (k) \right| \right| \right\} \right\}, \tag {5} \\ t \in \{0, 1, \dots , N - 1 \}, k \in \mathbb {N} \\ \end{array}
$$
