# 1. INTRODUCTION

Model predictive control (MPC) is a powerful control technique in dynamic systems, power inverters, and dynamic reference trajectories, as shown in Berberich et al. (2022). It can predict future system behavior from the current system state by solving an optimal control problem at each sampling instant. As discussed in Baillieul (2019), the evolution of a control theory for systems that exhibit the kind of resilience seen in neurobiology involves input and output signals generated by the collective activity of vast numbers of simple elements. This is one of the primary motivations for studying what we have called overcomplete control systems. Our goal is to understand systems whose overall functionality depends on discrete sets of inputs that operate collectively in groups. One such feature is control modulation involving actions of very large numbers of simple inputs and outputs that are effective in influencing the system dynamics only in their aggregate operation. Quantized input systems have been studied for many decades, such as in Lewis and Tou (1963) and Liu and Skelton (1990), but this work was primarily concerned with the digital round-off errors. The work reported in this paper is focused on developing quantization methods merged with MPC using simple inputs inspired by neurobiology to realize emulation.

Consider the linear time-invariant (LTI) systems of the form

$$\dot {x} (t) = A x (t) + B u (t), \quad x \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}, \quad u \in \mathbb {R} ^ {m}, \tag {1}$$

and use simple stablized feedback control law $u = K x$ , we obtain the closed-loop LTI system

$$\dot {x} (t) = H x (t), \quad x (0) = x _ {0}, \tag {2}$$

where $H = A { + } B K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ is Hurwitz. Following Baillieul and Sun (2021), we consider the problem of emulating (2)

by a discrete-time system with quantized inputs

$$x _ {q} (k + 1) = A _ {q} x _ {q} (k) + h B _ {q} u (k), \tag {3}$$

where $x _ { q } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the system state, $u \in \mathbb { U } = \{ - 1 , 0 , 1 \} ^ { m }$ is the set of possible quantized inputs and m  n. h is the time step.
