# 2.3 Experimental setting

We proceed to side-by-side comparison of Langevin algorithms (2.10) with their non-Langevin counterparts (2.9) on various SOC problems.

We consider a first case where the control is given by only one neural network depending on t and a second case where a different neural network is used for each control time (2.4). In this second case, since we can expect two consecutive control networks to have close parameters, one usual way of performing the training procedure is to first train networks for a small amount of control times, then to perform the whole training through transfer learning. We do not expect Langevin algorithms to be suitable for the fine tuning, but since the first step of the training still consists in training a deep neural network, we analyse the benefits of Langevin algorithms for this first step.

Unless stated otherwise, the batch size is set to $n _ { \mathrm { b a t c h } } = 5 1 2 { \mathrm { i . e } }$ . stochastic gradient iterations are performed by averaging the gradient over 512 random trajectories. In the plot, each epoch consists in 5 batches i.e. the average loss $J ( u _ { \theta } )$ is plotted every 5 iterations of the stochastic gradient. After each epoch, $J ( u _ { \theta } )$ is estimated over $2 5 \times 5 1 2$ trajectories and 95% confidence intervals are indicated, although for some plots the intervals are too small to be visible. While comparing some algorithm with its Langevin or Layer Langevin counterpart, we ensure that both training procedures start with the same initial weights.
