In Baillieul and Sun (2021), we formulated two types of emulation problems and only focused on the restricted problem. The general one is further discussed in this paper. The goal is to find piecewise constant quantized inputs with $h > 0$ such that the resulting trajectories of (3) with initial state $x _ { q } ( 0 ) = x _ { 0 }$ approximate the continuous system (2). Here, we solve the emulation problem that finds a partition of the state space $\{ U _ { i } \ : \ \cup \ U _ { i } = \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \quad U _ { i } ^ { o } \cap \quad$ $\bar { U } _ { j } ^ { o } = \emptyset ; ~ U _ { i } ^ { o } = \mathrm { i n t e r i o r } ~ \bar { U _ { i } } \}$ and a selection rule depending on the current state $x _ { q } ( k )$ for assigning values of the input at the k-th time step to be $u ( \bar { k } ) \in \mathcal { U } = \{ - 1 , 0 , 1 \} ^ { m }$ , so that for each $x \in U _ { i }$ , the quantized system (3) is as close as possible to the LTI system (2) according to an appropriate metric like the magnitudes $( \mathrm { i . e . , } < B _ { q } u , H x >$ if $A _ { q }$ is identity) and directions $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } | | \dot { H } h \dot { x } _ { 0 } | | - \dot { | } | h B _ { q } u | | )$ as studied in Sun and Baillieul (2022).

In the present paper, we show how a Lyapunov-like objective function can be used to formulate a quantized system model predictive control (QS-MPC) theory along the line pursued in Xu et al. (2022). The problem of using a quantized system to optimally emulate systems that are continuous in both time and state variable is considered. Sufficient conditions guaranteeing the asymptotic stability of solutions to the optimal emulation problem are established. The computational complexity of the integer optimization problem is addressed by generating a neural network model and an appropriate least squares reformulation.
