# 1. INTRODUCTION

Hierarchical multi-agent systems (H-MAS) are playing an important role in many applications, for example in modular multilevel converters (MMCs), microgrids, and water pumping systems. In the above applications, a leader such as the grid operator coordinates the control actions of the remaining agents of the system (followers) to achieve a common goal (a consensus value) such as a certain power demand. However, calculating and coordinating the control actions is a challenge that increases in complexity depending on the common goal and system characteristics. Further, the complexity of this task also increases if the H-MAS has a time-varying topology or it is subject to constraints such as having a limited number of active agents.

Commonly, the classic consensus problem is solved using a static state feedback controller where the agent dynamics are single integrators and the network topologies are time-invariant (Lunze, 2019). In this case, a necessary condition for reaching consensus is the existence of a spanning tree in the communication network. The importance of the spanning tree is due to the fact that the state feedback controller is built based on the adjacency matrix that describes the communication between agents; see, for example, (Morita and Ito, 2018; Wei et al., 2022; Cheng et al., 2015). Moreover, in (Yang et al., 2011), the findings of (Lunze, 2019) were extended to identical linear time-invariant (LTI) multi-input and multi-output (MIMO) systems.
