# I. INTRODUCTION

There are many considerations when designing a controller for a robotic manipulator covering a wide range of tasks such as pick-and-place operations, cooperative robotics, teleoperated robots and robotic surgery. Any successful control approach must guarantee stability and must remain stable when interacting with the environment. A good approach would also shape the robot performance. However, doing so analytically is made difficult by the nonlinear nature of the dynamics of robot manipulators.

Passivity-based control (PBC) is a powerful technique widely used in control design for robotics [5], [9], [13]. PBC provides strong stability guarantees, via straightforward energy considerations. The most widely used controller in robotics, the joint-space PD control with gravity compensation, is a simple and robust passivity-based controller [20]. Its energy shaping and damping injection features guarantee passivity of the controlled robot. Passivity-based control design techniques have also been adopted for parameter estimation [18], remote-teleoperation [2], and trajectory tracking via passive-aware adaptive estimation of the parameters of the system [17].

Most impedance control schemes [10], [22] implement a passive impedance defined by a desired stiffness, damping, and inertia. An impedance controller implementing a desired stiffness and damping (without modifying the inertia) by torque/force controlled joints is a form of PBC energyshaping and damping injection. Thus, it shares the same stability properties. At the same time, impedance control opens the way to the characterization and control of the robot performances, via loop shaping and similar considerations This work was supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council [EP/T517847/1]; and by CMR Surgical. For the purpose of open access, the author has applied a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence to any Author Accepted Manuscript version arising. D Larby and F. Forni are with the Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, CB2 1PZ, UK. dl564.cam.ac.uk|f.forni@eng.cam.ac.uk
