where c is an arbitrary positive constant resulting from applying Young’s inequality. Similarly to the former part of this proof, we take $c = \underline { { \lambda } } _ { \Lambda } / ( 2 \overline { { \lambda } } _ { \psi } )$ so that the ball where the state variable converges becomes minimum. Then we obtain

$$\dot {H} _ {\mathrm{smc}} \leq - \frac {\underline {{\lambda}} _ {\Lambda} (q)}{4} \left(\| \eta \| ^ {2} - \frac {4 \overline {{\lambda}} _ {\psi} (q)}{\underline {{\lambda}} _ {\Lambda} (q) ^ {2}} \| d _ {\mathrm{um}} \| ^ {2}\right)$$

on the sliding surface $\sigma = \psi ( q ) + \eta = 0$ , which means the state converges to the set $B _ { 2 }$ . This completes the proof.

This theorem shows that the control system achieves robust stability in the sense that the state variable converges to a set $B _ { 1 }$ and/or $B _ { 2 }$ . For example, if a potential function $U ( q , \eta ) = ( q + \eta ) ^ { 2 } / 2$ is selected, the resulting set $B _ { 1 }$ is represented as

$$\left\| \binom {q + \eta} {q + 2 \eta} \right\| ^ {2} \leq \gamma_ {1} (q) \| d \| ^ {2}.$$

$\mathrm { O r } ,$ as a sufficient condition, it can be rewritten as

$$\left\| \binom{q}{\eta} \right\| ^ {2} \leq \frac {7 + \sqrt {4 5}}{2} \gamma_ {1} (q) \| d \| ^ {2}.$$

This result would be useful to analyze the control system (36) with a smooth approximation of sliding mode controllers. It is known that for first order sliding mode controllers there is a tradeoff between the smoothness and robustness of the controller. Although it is difficult to evaluate a convergence set with conventional sliding mode controllers when a smooth approximation of input is employed, the proposed controller shows the set to which the state of the control system (36) converges by employing the Hamilton function $H _ { \mathrm { s m c } }$ as a Lyapunov function.

In addition to that, if the assumption (37) holds and there is no unmatched disturbance $d _ { \mathrm { u m } } ,$ the state converges to zero. For example, $\lVert \nabla _ { \eta } U ( \phi ( q ) + \eta ) \rVert \ge k$ holds with $k > 0$ when $U ( \phi ( q ) + \eta ) = k \lVert \phi ( q ) + \eta \rVert _ { 1 }$ is selected. Then it is possible to satisfy the condition (37) by selecting a large value of k, which represents the property that sliding mode controllers become robust by increasing the input gain.

In the next section, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed controller.
