The above surveyed works consider H-MAS with a switching, time-varying topology, but with a fixed set of active agents. However, as it is the case with, e.g., MMCs and water pumping systems, the set of active agents can change over time. In these applications, controlling the amount of active agents can improve the lifespans of agents or help fulfill a common goal. Therefore it is of interest to investigate if consensus can be reached in a H-MAS with a leader-follower architecture and with a time-varying set of active agents.

In this paper, we will refer to the above types of systems as time-varying hierarchical multi-agent systems (TH-MAS). For reaching consensus in a TH-MAS, we propose a switching algorithm that will coordinate the control actions by determining which followers should be active at any discrete time instant. Moreover, based on fundamental results from (Lunze, 2019) and (Ren and Beard, 2005), we prove that under the newly developed switching algorithm, the states of all follower agents reach consensus. For evaluating the results of the proposed method, we tested the proposed control algorithm in two simulation examples describing a modular multilevel converter as in (Pereira Marca et al., 2021) and a water pumping system as in (Kusumawardana et al., 2019).

The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 useful notations and description of the studied TH-MAS system are presented. Section 3 and 4 present the main results of the paper and the application-inspired examples, respectively. Section 5 summarizes the conclusions of the paper.
