$$\frac {\partial U (\phi (q , \eta))}{\partial q} = \frac {\partial U (\sigma)}{\partial \sigma} \frac {\partial \phi (q , \eta)}{\partial q}, \tag {9}\frac {\partial U (\phi (q , \eta))}{\partial \eta} = \frac {\partial U (\sigma)}{\partial \sigma} \frac {\partial \phi (q , \eta)}{\partial \eta}. \tag {10}$$

Substituting (5) into (3) and using (9) and (10), we obtain

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {q} = T (q) \eta \\ = - T (q) \frac {\partial \phi (q , \eta)}{\partial \eta} ^ {\top} \frac {\partial \phi (q , \eta)}{\partial q} ^ {- \top} \nabla_ {q} H _ {\mathrm{d}} + T (q) \nabla_ {p} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (11) \\ \dot {p} = - D (q, \eta) \eta + G (q) u \\ = - T (q) ^ {\top} \frac {\partial \phi (q , \eta)}{\partial q} ^ {\top} \nabla_ {\sigma} U (\sigma) - D _ {\mathrm{d}} (q, \eta) \left(\frac {\partial \phi (q , \eta)}{\partial \eta} ^ {\top} \nabla_ {\sigma} U (\sigma) + \eta\right) \\ = - T (q) ^ {\top} \nabla_ {q} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (q, \eta) - D _ {\mathrm{d}} (q, \eta) \nabla_ {\eta} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (q, \eta). (12) \\ \end{array}
$$

Equations (11) and (12) agree with the dynamics of (6). Thus, the input (5) converts the system (3) into the closed-loop system (6).

Next, we consider the latter part of the lemma. Let us consider the $H _ { \mathrm { d } } ( x )$ is a Lyapunov function candidate. The structure matrix $J _ { \mathrm { { d } } } ( x )$ satisfies

$$J _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) + J _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) ^ {\top} = - \operatorname{diag} \left(\frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} ^ {- 1} \left(\frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} T \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} ^ {\top} + \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} T ^ {\top} \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} ^ {\top}\right) \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial q} ^ {- \top}, D _ {\mathrm{d}} + D _ {\mathrm{d}}\right) \prec 0, \tag {13}$$

due to the assumptions (7) and (8). Then it follows from the positive definiteness of U and (13) that

$$
\begin{array}{l} H _ {\mathrm{d}} \succ 0, \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} H _ {\mathrm{d}}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {\partial H _ {\mathrm{d}}}{\partial x} \frac {\mathrm{d} x}{\mathrm{d} t} = \nabla_ {x} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) ^ {\top} J _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) \nabla_ {x} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) \\ = \frac {1}{2} \nabla_ {x} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) ^ {\top} (J _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) + J _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) ^ {\top}) \nabla_ {x} H _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) \\ \prec 0. \\ \end{array}
$$

Therefore, the origin of the closed-loop system (6) is asymptotically stable with the Lyapunov function $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ . This completes the proof. □

This lemma shows that the closed-loop port-Hamiltonian system with an artificial potential function $U ( \phi ( q , \eta ) )$ is obtained by the feedback input (5). Since the functions U and φ are free parameters, we can construct various stabilizing controllers with Lyapunov stability by adjusting them. Such freedom will be used to realize sliding mode in the next subsection.
