| Size of the quantization codebook | ABSA-2 d=1 | ABSA-2 d=2 | ABSA-2 d=3 | SAIC d=1 | HOC |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2 | 0.12 | 0.22 | 0.28 | 0.45 | 0.28 |
| 3 | 0.20 | 0.35 | 0.35 | 0.50 | 0.28 |
| 4 | 0.25 | 0.43 | 0.55 | 0.62 | 0.28 |
| 5 | 0.30 | 0.50 | 0.62 | 0.63 | 0.28 |
</details>

Figure 7. Comparing the positive listening $I \big ( \mathbf { c } _ { i } ( t ) ; \mathbf { m } _ { j } ( t ) \big )$ performance across a range of schemes.

The curve concerning the HOC scheme allows us to recall that a positive listening of 0.3 (bit) is sufficient to maintain the coordination required for optimal performance in the aforementioned geometric consensus task. Therefore, in the ABSA-2 and SAIC schemes, there is still an unnecessary influence from the side of the communication messages to the actions selected by the receiving end. In fact, not all the information received from the receiving end has contributed to the higher average return of the system. Accordingly, there is yet, some unnecessary data in the communication messages designed by ABSA that contain no task-specific/useful information.

Thus we believe that positive listening cannot explicitly quantify the effectiveness of the task-oriented communication algorithms; therefore they fall short in explaining the behaviour of these algorithms. Even when positive listening is computed as $I \left( \mathbf { c } _ { i } ( t ) ; \mathbf { m } ( t ) \right)$ to capture the mutual information between the communication of agent i and the control signals of all agents we arrive at almost similar patterns - Fig. 8.

Figure 9, investigates the performance of multiple schemes via a novel performance metric: task relevant information (TRI). Here we define the task relevant information metric to be

$$I \left(\pi^ {c} (\mathbf {o} _ {i} (t)); \pi^ {*} (\mathbf {s} (t))\right) = I \left(\mathbf {c} _ {i} (t); \mathbf {m} ^ {*} (t)\right), \tag {9}$$
