# A. ABSA-1 Algorithm

The applicability of the proposed ABSA-1, is limited to two mathematically equivalent scenarios: (i) we have a single agent communicating to the CC - consider the Fig. 2-a, with only one agent connected to the CC - or (ii) that the agents communicate with the CC through a relay. In the latter scenario, the relay has full access to the agents’ communication observation, i.e., $\mathbf { o } _ { i } , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } ,$ while the relay to CC channel is bit-budgeted. This limited scenario is useful for us to facilitate our analytical studies on the problem (3), allowing us to establish theoretical proof for the losslessness of compression in ABSA-1 as well as its optimal average return performance. These statements will be confirmed by Lemma 2 - the results of which will also be useful to design ABSA-2. The central idea of ABSA-1 is to represent any two states $\mathbf { s } ^ { ( i ) } , \mathbf { s } ^ { ( j ) }$ using the same communication message c iff $\pi ^ { * } \left( \mathbf { s } ^ { ( i ) } \right) ~ = ~ \pi ^ { * } \left( \bar { \mathbf { s } } ^ { ( j ) } \right)$ , where $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot ) : \mathcal { S }  \mathcal { M } ^ { N }$ is the optimal control policy of the agents, given the access of observations from all agents. Thus, ABSA-1 and ABSA-2 solve the JCCD problem at three different phases: (i) solving the centralized control problem under perfect communications via reinforcement learning i.e.,

Q-learning, to find $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot ) ^ { 7 }$ , (ii) solving the task-oriented data quantization problem to find $\pi ^ { c }$ via a form of data clustering, (iii) finding the $\pi ^ { m }$ corresponding to $\pi ^ { c }$ .

In order to explain ABSA-1, we introduce the problem of task-oriented data compression with centralized control. TBIC is derived using similar techniques in [18] but for a different setting i.e., the communication network of MAS has a star topology. The TBIC problem is no longer a joint control and communication problem but is a quantization design problem in which the features of the control problem are taken into account. To arrive to TODC problem from the JCCD problem, we use the functional $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ to replace $\pi ^ { m } ( \cdot )$ with $\Pi ^ { \hat { m } ^ { * } } \left( \pi ^ { c } \right)$ . Upon the availability of $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ , by plugging it into the JCCD problem (2), we will have a new problem
