# IV. SAFETY VERIFICATION OF NEURAL NETWORK CONTROL SYSTEMS

In this section, we apply neural network model reduction and model reduction precision to a neural network control system. By replacing the original neural network controller with a reduced-size neural network, the computational cost of safety verification can be significantly reduced. Moreover, the model reduction precision allows an over-estimation of the difference in behavior between the original neural network and the reduced-size one. For the reachability analysis of neural networks, the following result can be obtained.

Proposition 1: Given neural network Φ, its reduced-size version Φˆ with output set $\hat { \mathcal { V } } ,$ and model reduction precision $\rho ( \Phi , \hat { \Phi } , \mathcal { U } )$ , the output reachable set of original neural network Φ satisfies

$$\mathcal {Y} \subseteq \hat {\mathcal {Y}} \oplus \mathcal {B} (\mathbf {0} _ {n _ {L} \times 1}, \frac {\rho (\Phi , \hat {\Phi} , \mathcal {U})}{2}) \tag {26}$$

where $B (  { \mathbf { 0 } } _ { n \times 1 } , r )$ denotes a ball centered at ${ \bf 0 } _ { n \times 1 }$ with a radius of $r ,$ and ⊕ denotes the Minkowski sum.

Proof: This can be obtained straightforwardly by the definition of model reduction precision $\rho ( \Phi , { \hat { \Phi } } , \mathcal { U } )$ which characterizes the maximal difference between the outputs of Φ and $\hat { \Phi } .$ . The proof is complete. ■

The reachable set estimation for a sampled-data neural network control system in the form of (4) generally involves two parts: 1) Output set computation for neural network controllers denoted by

$$\mathcal {Y} = \text { reachNN } (\Phi , \mathcal {U}) \tag {27}$$

which can be efficiently obtained by neural network reachability tools such as [13], [16] and (26), and 2) Reachable set computation of system (1). For the reachable set computation of systems described by ODEs, there exist a variety of approaches and tools such as those well-developed in [17]–[20]. The following functions are given to denote the reachable set estimation for sampled data ODE models during $[ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } ]$ ,

$$\mathcal {R} _ {e} ([ t _ {k}, t _ {k + 1} ]) = \text { reachODEx } (f, \mathcal {U} (t _ {k}), \mathcal {R} _ {e} (t _ {k})) \tag {28}\mathcal {Y} _ {e} (t _ {k}) = \text { reachODE } _ {\mathrm{Y}} (h, \mathcal {R} _ {e} (t _ {k})) \tag {29}$$
