# Proof. Appendix B.

Remark: ABSA-1 will also carry out lossless compression of observation data with respect to the distortion measure

7ABSA’s bottleneck arises from the increasing complexity of Q-learning as agents increase in number N . Similar limitations are in place for any other algorithm that requires a centralized training phase [7], [30]

8Note that a $\mathfrak { i } \pi ^ { \overset { \cdot } { c } , A B S A - 1 } ( \cdot )$ is non-injective, its inverse would not produce a unique output given any input. Thus, by $\pi ^ { * } \left( \pi ^ { c , A B S A - 1 } ^ { - 1 } \left( \mathbf { c } ^ { \prime } \right) \right)$ we mean $\pi ^ { * } \left( \mathbf { s } ^ { \prime } \right)$ , where $\mathbf { s } ^ { \prime }$ can be any arbitrary output of $\pi ^ { c , A B S A - 1 ^ { - 1 } } ( { \bf c } ^ { \prime } )$ .

introduced in problem (3). Given the proofs of lemma 2 and lemma 1, the proof of this remark is straightforward and is therefore, omitted.

The losslessness of quantization in ABSA-1 implies that the $\pi ^ { A B S A - 1 }$ will result in no loss of the system’s average return, compared with the case where the optimal policy $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ is used to control the MAS under perfect communications. Consequently, the control policy $\pi ^ { m , \dot { A } B S A - 1 } ( \cdot )$ is optimal. Let us recall once again that here, we do not use a conventional quantization distortion metric, we select a representation of local observation in such a way that the conveyed message maximizes the average task return.

Note that in [7], the authors do not find the higher order function $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ that reduces the joint communications and control problem to a task-oriented communication design - instead they solve an approximated version of the task-oriented communication design problem. In this paper, however, we introduce a closed form $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ by ABSA-1 that can map every communication policy $\pi ^ { c , A B S A - 1 }$ introduced by ABSA-1, to the exact optimal control policy. This implies that the solutions provided by ABSA-1 are also the optimal solutions of the joint communication and control design (JCCD) problem.
