# A. The geometric consensus problem

Our proposed schemes are evaluated in this section through numerical results for the rendezvous problem [42], [43], which is a specific type of geometric consensus problems under finite observability [28]. Following the instantaneous and synchronous communication model and the star network topology explained in section II-A and Fig. 2 respectively, the rendezvous problem is explained as the following. At each time step t several events happen in the following order. First, an agent i obtains a local observation $\mathsf { o } _ { i } ( t )$ - which is equivalent to its own location in the grid-world. The agent i, subsequently, follows its quantization/communication policy to generate a compressed version ${ \mathsf c } _ { i } ( t )$ of its observation to be communicated to the CC via bit-budgeted communication links. After receiving the quantized observations of all agents, CC follows its control policy to decide and select the joint action vector m(t) and communicate each agent i’s local action $\mathsf { m } _ { i } ( t )$ to it accordingly. The local action $\mathsf { m } _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathcal { M }$ that is communicated back to the agent i via a perfect communication channel is a one directional move in the greed world, i.e, $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { M } = \left\{ \begin{array} { r l r l } \end{array} \right. } \end{array}$ left, right, up, down, pause}. Given each agent i’s action $\mathsf { m } _ { i } ( t )$ the environment evolves and transitions to the next time step t + 1 where each agent i obtains a new local observation $\mathsf { o } _ { i } ( t + 1 )$ . All agents receive a single team reward

$$
\mathrm{r} _ {t} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} C _ {1}, & \text { if } \exists i, j \in N: \mathfrak {o} _ {i} (t) \in \Omega^ {T} \& \mathfrak {o} _ {j} (t) \notin \Omega^ {T} \\ C _ {2}, & \text { if } \nexists i \in N: \mathfrak {o} _ {i} (t) \in \Omega - \Omega^ {T}, \\ 0, & \text { otherwise }, \end{array} \right. \tag {8}
$$

where $C _ { 1 } < C _ { 2 }$ and $\Omega ^ { T }$ is the set of terminal observations i.e., the episode terminates $\mathrm { i f } \ \exists i \in \mathcal { N } : \mathsf { o } _ { i } ( t ) \in \Omega ^ { T }$ . Accordingly, when not all agents arrive at the target point, a smaller reward $C _ { 1 } ~ = ~ 1$ is obtained, while the larger reward $C _ { 2 } ~ = ~ 1 0$ is attained when all agents visit the goal point at the same time.
