# 3.2 Geometric Approach

Based on the implementation in the STRIKE\_GOLDD toolbox, the geometric approach proved to be successful in showing both local observability and structural local identifiability of the full models ADM1-R4 and ADM1-R3 and all of their submodels. Moreover, this was achieved in (i) shorter computing times, (ii) without assuming acetic acid as an online measurement, and (iii) by employing two independent algorithms (FISPO and ORC-DF). Tab. 3 summarizes the computing times for the full models ADM1-R4 and ADM1-R3 as well as for BMR3-ABC, being the most complex model that could successfully shown to be observable with the algebraic approach, cf. Tab. 2. As noted by [27], computational efficiency of FISPO and ORC-DF can differ vastly depending on the model structure, which is especially apparent for the full ADM1-R3.

Table 3: Model properties and computing times of FISPO and ORC-DF algorithms for ADM1-R4, BMR3+ABC and ADM1-R3.

<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Model class</td><td colspan="2">number of</td><td colspan="2">computing time in s</td></tr><tr><td>states</td><td>parameters</td><td>FISPO</td><td>ORC-DF</td></tr><tr><td>ADM1-R4</td><td>11</td><td>4</td><td>3</td><td>7</td></tr><tr><td>BMR3+ABC</td><td>13</td><td>7</td><td>12</td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td>ADM1-R3</td><td>17</td><td>7</td><td>11959</td><td>811</td></tr></table>

Furthermore, computational effort decreased significantly when neglecting model parts of the full ADM1-R3: computing times of the submodel BMR3-ABC reduced to 12 and 5 s for FISPO and ORC-DF, compared with about 12,000 and 800 s for the full ADM1-R3, respectively.

Computation times of the geometric approach were generally shorter than for the algebraic one. This is reasonable because in the former only the existence of a solution to the systems of equations is assessed (through the obserbility rank condition), whereas the equation systems have to be solved expliciteply in the latter.
