In order to answer the questions mentioned above, in this paper, we study the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation in the networked prisoner’s dilemma game with periodic switching strategy update rules. By means of the standard form of replicator equation on graphs for the prisoner’s dilemma game, we formulate our mathematical model of switched system for the periodic switching strategy update rules. By using switched system theory, we derive a theoretical condition for the emergence of cooperative behavior on graphs. Under this condition, we show that the periodically switched system with different switching update rules can evolve into a full cooperation state. Finally, as a supporting example, we consider that individuals can periodically switch the update rules between the classic imitation (IM) and pairwise-comparison (PC) updating in the networked prisoner’s dilemma game, and find that our numerical calculations verify our theoretical results. The main contributions of our work are listed as follows:

• We formulate a mathematical framework to study the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation with periodic switching strategy update rules.   
• We theoretically prove that the periodically switched system can reach a full cooperation state. In addition, we identify the mathematical condition for the emergence of cooperative behavior.   
• We consider an example where two strategy update rules, that is, the IM and PC updating, are periodically switched. In this example, we find that the final evolutionary outcome can support the theoretical condition for the emergence of cooperation we obtained.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II, we formalize the problem. Here, we first describe the networked prisoner’s dilemma game. Then, we depict the replicator equation with a strategy update rule on regular networks. Afterwards we characterize the periodically switched system with different strategy update rules. In Section III, we present the theoretical results, including the existence and (asymptotic) stability analysis of equilibria. In Section IV, we present numerical results to verify our obtained theoretical results. Finally, conclusions are summarized in Section V.

Notation: Throughout the paper, we denote the set of nonnegative and strictly positive integer numbers by N and $\mathbb { N } _ { + }$ , respectively. Let $\mathbb { R } = ( - \infty , + \infty )$ and $\mathcal { M } = \{ 1 , 2 , \dots , m \}$ , where $m \geq 2$ is a fixed positive integer. For a number $x \in \mathbb { R }$ , |x| denotes its absolute value. $E ( X )$ represents the expected value of a random variable X.
