# I. INTRODUCTION

C OOPERATIVE behavior is ubiquitous in nature andhuman societies [1]–[3]. Yet, understanding the evolution human societies [1]-[3]. Yet,understanding the evolution and maintenance of cooperation in a population of selfinterested individuals has been a major scientific puzzle for decades [4]–[6]. Evolutionary game theory provides a powerful mathematical framework to investigate the problem of cooperation [7]–[9], and the prisoner’s dilemma game has been widely adopted as a classic paradigm for studying cooperation among selfish individuals [10]–[12].

This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 61976048 and 62036002) and the Fundamental Research Funds of the Central Universities of China. S.W. acknowledges the support from China Scholarship Council (Grant No. 202006070122). (Corresponding authors: Ming Cao and Xiaojie Chen).

S. Wang is with School of Mathematical Sciences, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu 611731, China, and also with EN-TEG, Faculty of Science and Engineering, University of Groningen, Groningen 9747 AG, The Netherlands (e-mail: shengxian.wang.yy@outlook.com).   
W. Yao is with School of Robotics, Hunan University, Hunan, China, and also with ENTEG, Faculty of Science and Engineering, University of Groningen, Groningen 9747 AG, The Netherlands (e-mail: weijia.yao.new@outlook.com).   
M. Cao is with ENTEG, Faculty of Science and Engineering, University of Groningen, Groningen 9747 AG, The Netherlands (e-mail: m.cao@rug.nl).   
X. Chen is with School of Mathematical Sciences, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu 611731, China (e-mail: xiaojiechen@uestc.edu.cn).
