# B. Numerical experiment

A constant learning rate $\alpha = 0 . 0 7$ is applied when exact Qlearning is used to obtain $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ and $\alpha = 0 . 0 0 0 7$ when DQN is used to learn $\pi ^ { m } ( \cdot )$ for ABSA-2. For the exact Q-learning, a $\mathrm { U C B } ^ { 1 0 }$ exploration rate of $c = 1 . 2 5$ considered. The deep neural network that approximates the Q-values is considered to be a fully connected feed-forward network with 10 layers of depth, which is optimized using the Adam optimizer. An experience reply buffer of size 10’000 is used with the minibatch size of 62. The target Q-network is updated every 1000 steps and for the exploration, decaying -greedy with the initial $\epsilon = 0 . 0 5$ and final $\epsilon = 0 . 0 0 5$ is used [41]. In any figure that the performance of each scheme is reported in terms of the averaged discounted cumulative rewards, the attained rewards throughout training iterations are smoothed using a moving average filter of memory equal to 20,000 iterations. As explained in section III-A, ABSA-1 and ABSA-2 both require a centralized training phase prior to be capable of being executed in a distributed fashion.

For all black curves, one prior centralized training phase to obtain $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ is required. As detailed in Section III, the proposed algorithms, ABSA-1 and ABSA-2, leverage $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ to design $\pi ^ { c }$ and then $\pi ^ { m }$ afterwards. Dashed curves, HOC and HNC, as proposed by [18] provide heuristic schemes which exploit the domain knowledge of its designer about the rendezvous task making it not applicable to any other task rather than the rendezvous problem. While HOC enjoys a joint control and communication design, HNC runs with no communication. Note that HNC & HOC require communication/coordination between agents prior to the starting point of the task - which is not required for any other scheme. These schemes, introduced by [18], are detailed as the following.

• A joint communication and control policy is designed using domain knowledge in the rendezvous problem. HNC agents approach the goal point and wait nearby for a sufficient number of time steps to ensure that the other agent has also arrived. Only after that, they will get to the goal point. Note that this scheme requires communication/coordination between agents prior to the starting point of the task, since they have to have had agreed upon this scheme of coordination.
