# B. Contributions

In our earlier work [18], we have developed a generic framework to solve task-oriented communication problems - for a multi-agent system (MAS) with full mesh connectivity. The current work can be considered as an adoption of that framework to a new problem setting for the design of taskeffective communications where agents follow a star network topology for their connectivity. In this direction, the current work transcends the applicability of the proposed framework beyond the specific problem that was solved in [18] and provides further insights into how the framework can be used in wider terms and under a wider range of settings. In particular the contributions of this work are listed below.

• Firstly, we consider a novel problem setting in which an MAS is controlled via a central controller who has access to agents’ local observations only through bit-budgeted distributed communications. This problem setting can be used in collaboration perception systems as well as vehicle-to-infrastructure communications, which cannot been addressed by the problem settings investigated in the prior similar art.

• Secondly, our analytical studies establish the relationship between the considered joint communication and control design problem and conventional data quantization problems. In particular, lemma 1 shows how the problem approached in this paper is a generalized version of the conventional data quantization. This formulation is useful as it helps to find an exact solution to the problem under stronger conditions via ABSA-1 and under milder conditions via ABSA-2.

• Moreover, our analytical studies help us to craft an indirect 1 task-effective data quantization algorithm - ABSA-2. Designing a task-effective data quantization for ABSA-2 can equivalently be translated as an indirect approach to feature selection for an arbitrary deep Q-network. Relying on the analysis carried out for ABSA-1, ABSA-2 designs distributed and bit-budgeted communications between the agents and CC. ABSA-2 is seen to approach optimal performance by increasing the memory of the CC. In fact, increasing the memory of CC leads to higher computational complexity. Therefore, ABSA-2 is said to strike a trade-off between computational complexity and task efficiency.
