Note that many previous works on evolutionary dynamics of cooperation impose the assumption that the strategy update rule is fixed and time-invariant [28]–[30]. However, this assumption is not always realistic and merely represents an oversimplification of reality. Indeed, during the evolutionary process individuals can use different strategy update rules or switch their update rule to another. Due to periodic changes in the environment [31]–[33] or driven by their periodic behavior modes [34]–[36], they may periodically switch their strategy update rules. In addition, the basic idea of switching has been introduced into evolutionary games [37]–[39]. For example, Hilbe et al. studied evolutionary dynamics of cooperation in stochastic games where the game structure can be periodically switched [40]. Subsequently, Su et al. studied evolutionary dynamics on complex networks where game transitions happen [41]. Very recently, Shu and Fu studied replicator dynamics with feedback-evolving games, where periodic switching of two different game matrices is considered [42]. Also noticeable, Li et al. studied evolutionary dynamics of cooperation on temporal networks, where periodic switching of structured populations can happen [43]. However, far fewer works have studied the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation in the scenario of periodic switching of update rules. For example, it is still unclear whether cooperative behavior can emerge in the networked prisoner’s dilemma game when periodic switching of update rules is considered. Furthermore, given a tentative positive answer to the possibility question, one still wants to explore further what the mathematical conditions are for the emergence of cooperative behavior among interacting individuals.
