quantization on the average return of the task. To achieve this, we first need to design task-effective data quantization policies for all agents. In task-effective data quantization, one needs to take into account the properties of the average return function and the optimal control policies associated with the task [15]. In addition to the design of the quantization policies for all agents, we also need the control policy of the CC to be capable of carrying out near-optimal decisionmaking despite its mere access to the quantized messages - resulting in a joint control and data compression problem. We formulate the joint control and data compression problem as a generalized form of data compression: task-oriented data compression (TODC). Following this novel problem formulation, we propose two indirect action-based state aggregation algorithms (ABSA): (i) ABSA-1 provides analytical proof for a task-effective quantization i.e, with optimal performance in terms of the expected return. In this direction, ABSA-1 relaxes the assumption of the lumpability of the underlying MDP, according to which [18][condition. 6], the performance guarantees of the proposed method were established. Since ABSA-1 is only applicable when the system is composed of one agent and the CC we also propose ABSA-2. Following the analytical results of ABSA-1, given the help of MAP estimation to relax the aforementioned limitation of ABSA-1, and benefiting from a DQN controller at the CC; ABSA-2 will be introduced as a more general approach. (ii) ABSA-2 solves an approximated version of the TODC problem and carries out the quantization for any number of agents communicating with the CC. Thanks to a deep Q-network controller utilized at the CC, ABSA-2 can solve more complex problems where the controller benefits from a larger memory. Thus, ABSA-2 allows trading complexity for communication efficiency and vice versa. Finally, we will evaluate the performance of the proposed schemes in the specific task: a geometric consensus problem under finite observability [28].
