Figure 4. Abstract representation of states in ABSA-2 with $| { \mathcal { C } } | = 3$ and $| { \mathcal M } | = 5 \cdot | { \mathcal M } |$ is represented by the number of shapes selected to show the observation points and |C| is represented by the number of clusters shown in the right subplot. The left subplot shows the observation points prior to aggregation. During a centralized training phase we first compute $\pi ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ according to which $\pi _ { i } ^ { * } \big ( \cdot \big ) : \Omega  \mathcal { M }$ can be obtained. We use the surjection $\pi _ { i } ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ to map a high dimensional/precision observation space to a low dimensional/precision space. The middle subplot shows the observation points together with the action values assigned to them - each unique shape represents a unique action value. This new representation of the observation points, embeds the features of the control problem into the data quantization problem. Finally, we carry out the clustering of observation points according to their action values - all observation points assigned to (a set of) action values are clustered together. The right subplot shows the aggregated observation space, where all the observation points in each cluster will be represented using the same communication message. The centralized controller which is run using DQN, observes the environment at each time step, through all these aggregated observations/communications it receives from all the agents.

As illustrated in Fig. 4, ABSA-2, each agent i obtains a communication policy function $\pi _ { i } ^ { c } ( \cdot )$ by solving a clustering problem over its local observation space instead of the global state space, formulated as follows:

$$\underset {\mathcal {P} _ {i}} {\min} \quad \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {| \mathcal {C} |} \sum_ {\mathfrak {o} _ {i} (t) \in \mathcal {P} _ {i, j}} \left| \tilde {\pi} _ {i} ^ {*} (\mathfrak {o} _ {i} (t)) - \mu_ {i, j} \right|, \tag {6}$$

where $\mathcal { P } _ { i } = \{ \mathcal { P } _ { i , 1 } , . . . , \mathcal { P } _ { i , | \mathcal { C } | } \}$ is a partition of $\Omega ,$ and

$$\tilde {\pi} _ {i} ^ {*} (\mathsf {o} _ {i} (t)) = \operatorname{argmax} _ {\mathbf {m} _ {i} ^ {*}} p _ {\pi^ {*}} (\mathbf {m} _ {i} ^ {*} | \mathsf {o} _ {i} (t)), \tag {7}$$
