# 1.1. Contributions.

1. In this paper, we introduce a novel mean-field game model that is called linear mean-field games. In this model, agents randomly interact with each other, and the probability of this random interaction is given by the mean-field term. As a result, both the one-stage cost and the transition probability depend linearly on the mean-field term. This is, in general, not true in classical mean-field games, even for models with linear state dynamics.   
2. In Lemma 3.1, it is shown that an equilibrium policy in the infinite population limit is Lipschitz continuous. Similarly, Lemma 3.6 demonstrates that the best-response policy to the infinite population equilibrium in the finite-agent setting is also Lipschitz continuous. To obtain this result, it is proved in Lemma 3.3 and Lemma 3.5 that the optimal value function of the agent that computes the best-response policy is Lipschitz continuous. These results do not impose any conditions on the set to which the best-response policy belongs, unlike in previous work such as [34], where the best-response policy is assumed to be a component of the set of Markov policies that use only local state information.   
3. Using Lemma 3.1 and Lemma 3.6, Theorem 4.5 proves that the policy in the infinite population equilibrium is $\varepsilon ( N )$ -Nash when the number of agents N is sufficiently large, where $\varepsilon ( N )$ is an explicit function of N . In the literature, there exist various results related to both continuous and discrete time, as well as static classical mean-field games, that establish a relationship between the rate at which $\varepsilon ( N )$ approaches zero as N increases. Some examples of papers that explore this relationship include [29, 30, 31, 32, 5]. Our result is in line with those found in the literature, but with the possibility of having more relaxed conditions. This is achievable due to the linearity of the one-stage cost and transition probability with respect to the mean-field term.   
4. We use the linear programming formulation of MDPs and the linearity of the transition probability in the mean-field term to express the game in the infinite population limit as a GNEP, for which there exists a large body of literature on computing equilibrium solutions. By adapting one of these methods to our problem, we develop an algorithm for computing equilibrium in the infinite population limit with a convergence guarantee.
