$\mathrm { { ^ { a } C H _ { 4 } } , C O _ { 2 } }$ - partial pressures of methane and carbon dioxide; IN - inorganic nitrogen; TS, VS - total and volatile solids; Ac - acetic acid $\mathrm { \Delta ^ { b } C H _ { 4 } }$ and $\mathrm { C O _ { 2 } }$ were assumed as online measurements, as well as Ac for ADM1-R3 variants. IN, TS and VS were assumed as offline measurements. cNumber of states dComputation time ederivative fOnly local observability could be shown because two solutions to the equation systems were found.

Model simplifications were applied to the ADM1-R4, resulting in the submodels BMR4, BMR4+A and BMR4+B. This was done to explore the effect of individual model parts on the complexity of the equation system, indicated by the computing time required to solve the system of equations. Neglecting model part B reduced the computing time the most (BMR4+A). Only neglecting model part A (BMR4+B) also reduced computing time, albeit not as much. However, neglecting both model parts A and B (BMR4) resulted in slightly longer computing times than for BMR4+A. This is reasonable because simplifying the stoichiometric degradation pathway for biomass decay (model part A) in fact results in more complex terms for the time derivatives of the gas partial pressures if gas solubility (model part B) is neglected as well.

For the full ADM1-R3 (equivalent to BMR3+ABCDE), the solver of Mathematica failed to deliver conclusive statements on observability, likely due to the complexity of the resulting terms in the system of equations. Neither a set of solutions nor an empty set could be returned. Instead, the kernel systematically died in the process of solving the equation systems. Hence, with the algebraic approach, observability of the full ADM1-R3 could not be determined.

Therefore, model complexity of the ADM1-R3 was reduced by isolating and omitting individual model parts (see Sec. 2.1).

Up to this point, measurements of CH4, CO2, IN, TS and VS were assumed. Additionally, for all ADM1-R3 submodels online measurements of acetic acid had to be taken into account to show local observability, see Tab. 2. The obtained results are therefore strictly valid only for lab- and pilot-scale settings [22].

With given nominal measurements of VS, it was preferred to include time derivatives of TS over VS because both terms added the same information to the system of equations, but TS delivered less complex terms.
