# II. PRELIMINARIES

In this paper, we consider a class of continuous-time nonlinear systems in the form of

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\mathbf {x}} (t) = f (\mathbf {x} (t), \mathbf {u} (t)) \\ \mathbf {y} (t) = h (\mathbf {x} (t)) \end{array} \right. \tag {1}
$$

where $\mathbf { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ is the state vector, $\mathbf { u } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ is the control input and the $\mathbf { y } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { y } }$ is the output vector. In general, the control input is in the form of

$$\mathbf {u} (t) = \gamma (\mathbf {y} (t), \mathbf {r} (t), t) \tag {2}$$

where $\mathbf { r } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \tau } }$ is the reference input for the controller.

To avoid the difficulties in the controller design when system models are complex or even unavailable, one effective method is to use input-output data to train neural networks capable of generating appropriate control input signals to achieve control objectives. The neural network controller is in the form of

$$\mathbf {u} (t) = \Phi (\mathbf {y} (t), \mathbf {r} (t)) \tag {3}$$

where Φ denotes the neural network mapping output and reference signals to control input.

In actual applications, the neural network receives input and generates output in a fraction of the computation time, so the control input generated by the neural network is generally discrete, generated only at each sampling time point $t _ { k } , k \in \ \mathbb { N } ,$ and then remains a constant value between two successive sampling time instants. Therefore, the continuous-time nonlinear dynamical system with a neural network controller with sampling actions can be expressed in the following form of

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\mathbf {x}} (t) = f (\mathbf {x} (t), \Phi (\boldsymbol {\tau} (t _ {k}))) \\ \mathbf {y} (t) = h (\mathbf {x} (t)) \end{array} , \quad t \in [ t _ {k}, t _ {k + 1}) \right. \tag {4}
$$

where $\pmb { \tau } ( t _ { k } ) = [ \mathbf { y } ^ { \top } ( t _ { k } ) , \mathbf { r } ^ { \top } ( t _ { k } ) ] ^ { \top }$ .

In this work, we consider feedforward neural networks for controllers in the form of $\Phi : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { 0 } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { L } }$ defined by the following recursive equations in the form of

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {\ell} = \phi_ {\ell} (\mathbf {W} _ {\ell} \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {\ell - 1} + \mathbf {b} _ {\ell}), \ell = 1, \dots , L \\ \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {L} = \Phi (\boldsymbol {\eta} _ {0}) \end{array} \right. \tag {5}
$$
