Suppose that one replacement event occurs in one unit of time t, and one can obtain the derivative of $x _ { C }$ with respect to t as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C} (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {E (\Delta x _ {C})}{\Delta t} \\ = \frac {\frac {1}{n} P (\Delta x _ {C} = \frac {1}{n}) - \frac {1}{n} P (\Delta x _ {C} = - \frac {1}{n})}{\frac {1}{n}} \\ = \omega \Psi (x _ {C}, x _ {C | C}, \omega), \tag {A11} \\ = \omega \left\{\frac {1}{2} x _ {C} \left(1 - x _ {C | C}\right) \left[ \frac {(k - 1) b \left(x _ {C | C} - x _ {C}\right)}{1 - x _ {C}} \right. \right. \\ \left. \left. - k c - b \right] + o (\omega) \right\}. \\ \end{array}
$$

The derivative of $x _ { C C }$ with respect to t is

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C C} (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{\Delta t} E (\Delta x _ {C C}) \\ = \frac {1}{\frac {1}{n}} \left\{\frac {(k - 1) x _ {C | D} + 1}{k n / 2} P \Big (\Delta x _ {C C} = \frac {(k - 1) x _ {C | D} + 1}{k n / 2} \Big) \right. \\ \left. - \frac {2 (k - 1) x _ {C | C}}{k n} P \left(\Delta x _ {C C} = - \frac {2 (k - 1) x _ {C | C}}{k n}\right) \right\} \\ = \frac {x _ {C} (1 - x _ {C | C})}{k} [ 1 - (k - 1) \frac {x _ {C | C} - x _ {C}}{1 - x _ {C}} ] + o (\omega). \tag {A12} \\ \end{array}
$$

Due to $\begin{array} { r } { x _ { C | C } = \frac { x _ { C C } } { x _ { C } } } \end{array}$ , one can derive the time derivative of $x _ { C | C }$ as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C | C} (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \Phi (x _ {C}, x _ {C | C}, \omega) \\ = \frac {1 - x _ {C \mid C}}{k} \left[ 1 - (k - 1) \frac {x _ {C \mid C} - x _ {C}}{1 - x _ {C}} \right] + o (\omega). \tag {A13} \\ \end{array}
$$

Combining (A11) and (A13), we have the following dynamical system

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C} (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \omega \Psi (x _ {C}, x _ {C | C}, \omega), \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C | C} (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \Phi (x _ {C}, x _ {C | C}, \omega). \end{array} \right. \tag {A14}
$$

System (A14) can be rewritten with a change in time scale as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C} (\tau)}{\mathrm{d} \tau} = \Psi (x _ {C}, x _ {C | C}, \omega), \\ \omega \frac {\mathrm{d} x _ {C | C} (\tau)}{\mathrm{d} \tau} = \Phi (x _ {C}, x _ {C | C}, \omega), \end{array} \right. \tag {A15}
$$

where $\tau = \omega t$ . We refer to the time scale given by τ as slow, whereas the time scale for t is fast. Further, as long as $\omega \neq 0$ , the two systems are equivalent and are referred to as singular perturbation when $0 < \omega \ll 1$ . Letting $\omega  0$ in (A15), we obtain the system
