In mean-field games, the most naive approach for computing MFE is the following. Note that, given any limiting mean-field term $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( \mathbb { X } )$ , the optimal control problem for the meanfield game reduces to finding an optimal stationary policy for a Markov decision process (MDP). Hence, one can compute the optimal policy π for $\mu$ using various algorithms such as value iteration, policy iteration, and Q-iteration. Then, given this optimal policy $\pi ,$ , one can compute the invariant distribution $\mu ^ { + }$ of the transition probability $p _ { \mu } ^ { \pi } ( \cdot | x )$ . This overall process defines an operator H from $\mathcal { P } ( \mathsf { X } )$ to $\mathcal { P } ( \mathsf { X } )$ as follows $\mu ^ { + } = H ( \dot { \mu } )$ . If one can prove that H is a contraction, then by Banach fixed point theorem, the iterates in this recursion converges to the unique fixed point $\mu ^ { * }$ of the operator $H ;$ that is, $\mu ^ { * } = H ( \mu ^ { * } )$ , and so, $\mu ^ { * }$ and the corresponding optimal policy $\pi ^ { * }$ constitute a MFE. This approach was indeed adapted in [2] for classical mean-field games. However, it turns out that to make H contraction, we need quite restrictive conditions on the system components of the model.

In this paper, we follow the following alternative route. Given any limiting mean-field term $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( \mathbb { X } )$ , we formulate the corresponding MDP as a linear program (LP) using occupation measures, which is a well-established method in stochastic control. Then, we incorporate the mean-field consistency condition to this LP formulation and obtain a generalized Nash equilibrium problem. By adapting one of the methods developed for solving GNEPs to our problem, we establish an algorithm for computing MFE.

5.1. GNEP Formulation. Note that, given any $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( \mathbb { X } )$ , the corresponding optimal control problem is an MDP. Therefore, in this section, we first introduce the LP formulation of this MDP using occupation measures. We refer the reader to [19] and [20, Chapter 6] for the LP formulation of MDPs with discounted cost.
