Figure 1. Task-effective communications for a) an estimation vs. b) a control task - the orange dashed box is detailed in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3.

This line of research is also driven partly due to the success of new machine learning technologies/ algorithms under the title of ”emergent communications” in multi-agent systems [7]. Transfer of these new technologies/ideas to communication engineering is anticipated to have a disruptive effect in multiple domains of the design of communication systems.

According to Shannon and Weaver, communication problems can be divided into three levels [8]: (i) technical problem: given channel and network constraints, how accurately can the communication symbols/bits be transmitted? (ii) semantic problem: given channel and network constraints, how accurately the communication symbols can deliver the desired meaning? (iii) effectiveness problem: given channel and network constraints, how accurately the communication symbols can help to fulfil the desired task? While the traditional communication design addresses the technical problem, recently, the semantic problem [2], [3], [5], [9], [10] as well as the effectiveness problem [6], [11]–[18] have attracted extensive research interest.

In contrast to Shannon’s technical-level communication framework, semantic communication can enhance performance by exploiting prior knowledge between source and destination [4], [19]. The semantic-based designs, however, are not necessarily task-effective [20]. One can design transmitters which compress the data with the least possible compromise on the semantic meaning being transmitted [2], [3] while the transmission can be task-unaware [21]. In contrast to semantic level and technical level communication design, the performance of a task-effective communication system is ultimately measured in terms of the average return/cost linked to the task [11]. In the (task-)effectiveness problem, we are not concerned only about the communication of meaning but also about how the message exchange is helping the receiving end to improve its performance in the expected cost/reward of an estimation task [4], [13], [14], [16], [22] or a control task [11], [12], [14], [17], [18], [23], [24].
