In the literature for classical mean-field games, an algorithm is established in [41] for computing oblivious equilibrium in a stationary mean-field industry dynamics model. [1] consider a stationary mean-field game model with a countable state-space under an infinitehorizon discounted-cost criterion. [23] study stationary mean-field games with binary action space, demonstrating the existence and uniqueness of the stationary mean-field equilibrium. [26] consider stationary mean-field games with a continuum of states and actions, and establishes a novel uniqueness result for stationary mean-field equilibrium. [15] study both stationary and non-stationary mean-field games with a finite state space over a finite horizon and establishes the existence and uniqueness of the mean-field equilibrium for both cases. The references [11, 28, 33, 30] consider discrete-time mean-field games with state dynamics that is linear in state, action, and mean-field term. While the state dynamics in the latter case is linear in the mean-field term, the corresponding transition probability can still be nonlinear in the mean-field term, making it distinct from the current game model being considered.

The previous studies reviewed only establish the existence and uniqueness of the meanfield equilibrium, but do not provide an algorithm with a guarantee of convergence to compute it, with the exception of the model with linear state dynamics and two other papers [41, 2]. This work investigates this problem for linear mean-field games and proposes an algorithm that formulates the game as a GNEP, proving the convergence of the algorithm to the stationary mean-field equilibrium.
