# B. Replicator Equation with a Strategy Update Rule

According to the evolutionary selection principle, players in the population adjust their strategy from time to time, and the way how to do it may influence the final evolutionary outcome significantly. Here, we consider $m \ge 2 ~ ( m \in \mathbb { N } _ { + } )$ different strategy update rules from the set $\mathcal { M } .$ . From the obtained form of the replicator equation for prisoner’s dilemma game on graphs in Ref. [27], the dynamical equation for the strategy update rule $i ~ ( i \in \mathcal { M } )$ can be given as

$$\frac {\mathrm{d} x (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = f _ {i} (x (t)) = \alpha_ {i} (\omega , k, b, c) x (t) (1 - x (t)), \tag {2}$$

where $x ( t ) \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ is the fraction of C-players (i.e., cooperators) in the population, and $\alpha _ { i } ( \omega , \boldsymbol { k } , \boldsymbol { b } , \boldsymbol { c } )$ is a function of selection strength $\omega ,$ the network degree $k ,$ the cooperation benefit b and the cooperation cost c. Here, we denote by $x ( 0 ) = x _ { 0 }$ the initial fraction of cooperators in the population. We note that using the pair-approximation approach, the form of Eq. (2) can be obtained for a series of microscopic update rules under weak selection $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \omega \  \ 0 )$ when the payoff matrix of the game is described by Eq. (1). Accordingly, Eq. (2) can be used to describe the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation on a regular network when the microscopic update rule is fixed during the evolutionary process.

Assumption 2: The population structure, the payoff matrix A, and the strength of selection $\omega$ are fixed.

Assumption 2 implies that the considered parameters $( \mathrm { i } . \mathrm { e } . , n ,$ $\omega , k ,$ b and c) do not change over time, that is, they are fixed. Therefore, the function $\alpha _ { i } ( \omega , \boldsymbol { k } , \boldsymbol { b } , \boldsymbol { c } )$ can be simplified to be $\alpha _ { i }$ since it is now just a constant.

In this case, Eq. (2) has two equilibria, which are $x ^ { * } = 0$ and $x ^ { * } = 1 . \operatorname { I f } \alpha _ { i } > 0$ and the initial state $x _ { 0 } \in ( 0 , 1 )$ , then ${ \frac { \mathrm { d } x ( t ) } { \mathrm { d } t } } >$ 0 for all $t \geq 0$ . Note that this implies that the equilibrium point $x ^ { * } = 0$ is unstable and $x ^ { * } = 1$ is (asymptotically) stable. If $\alpha _ { i } < 0$ and $x _ { 0 } \in ( 0 , 1 )$ , then dx(t) < 0 for all t ≥ 0, and $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \mathrm { d } x ( t ) } { \mathrm { d } t } \dot { < } 0 } \end{array}$ $t \geq 0$ the equilibrium point $x ^ { * } = 0$ is (asymptotically) stable and $x ^ { * } = 1$ is unstable.
