There are fundamental differences between the design of task-effective communications for an estimation vs. a control task - Fig. 1. (i) In the latter, each agent can produce a control signal that directly affects the next observations of the agent. Thus, in control tasks the source of information - local observations of the agent - is often a stochastic process with memory - e.g. linear or Markov decision processes - [11], [17], [18]. In the estimation tasks, however, the source of information is often assumed to be an i.i.d. stochastic process [13], [16], [22]. (ii) In the control tasks, a control signal often has a long-lasting effect on the state of the system more than for a single stage/time step e.g., a control action can result in lower expected rewards in the short run but higher expected rewards in the long run. This makes the control tasks intrinsically sensitive to the time horizon for which the control policies are designed. Estimation tasks, specifically when the observation process is i.i.d., can be solved in a single stage/ time step - since there is no influence from the solution of one stage/ time step to another i.e., each time step can be solved separately [22], [25]. (iii) The cost function for estimation tasks is often in the form of a difference/distortion function while in the control tasks it can take on many other forms.

In this paper, we focus on the effectiveness problem for the control tasks. In particular, we investigate the distributed communication design of a multiagent system (MAS) with the ultimate goal of maximizing the expected summation of per-stage rewards also known as the expected return. Multiple agents select control actions and communicate in the MAS to accomplish a collaborative task with the help of a central controller (CC) - i.e. the communication network topology of the MAS is a star topology with the hub node being the central controller and the peripheral nodes being the agents - Fig. 2. The considered system architecture can find applications in several domains such as Internet of Things, emerging cyberphysical systems, real-time interactive systems, vehicle-toinfrastructure communication [26] and collaborative perception [27].
