# III. ACTION-BASED LOSSLESS COMPRESSION OF OBSERVATIONS

In this section, we will set yet another example - in addition to [18] - for the use of a generic framework to solve JCCD problem. In [18], a similar problem is solved for distributed control and quantization, wherein, the authors disentangle the design of task-oriented communication policies and action policies given the aid of a hypothetical functional $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ . In particular, the functional $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ is a map from the vector space ${ \mathcal { K } } ^ { c }$ of all possible communication policies $\pi ^ { c }$ to the vector space $\kappa ^ { m }$ of optimal corresponding control policy $\pi ^ { m ^ { * } } ( \cdot )$ . Upon the availability of the functional $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } }$ , wherever the function $\pi ^ { m }$ appears in the JCCD problem, it can be replaced with $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } } ( \pi ^ { c } )$ resulting in a novel problem in which only the communication policies $\pi ^ { c }$ are to be designed. While in [18], authors use an approximation of $\Pi ^ { m ^ { * } } ( { \bar { \pi } } ^ { c } )$ to obtain a task-oriented quantizer design problem, in the current work we derive an exact solution for a simplified version of (3) - where the number of agents communicating with the central controller is limited to one agent. To adapt ABSA to the generic setting of the problem (3), in ABSA-2, we will lift this limitation given the aid of an approximation technique.

The JCCD problem can already be formulated as a form of data-quantization problem. Lemma 1, identifies the quantization metric that we aim to optimize in this paper. It reformulates the JCCD problem as a novel generalized data quantization problem.

Lemma 1. The JCCD problem (2) can also be expressed as a generalized data quantization problem as follows

$$\underset {\pi} {\operatorname{argmin}} \quad \mathbb {E} _ {p (\mathfrak {s} (t))} \left| V ^ {\pi^ {*}} (\mathbf {s} (t)) - V ^ {\pi^ {m}} (\mathbf {c} (t)) \right|, \quad s. t. \quad | \mathcal {C} | \leq 2 ^ {R}, \tag {3}$$

where the communication vector c(t) generated by $\pi ^ { c }$ is a quantized version of the system’s state s(t).

Proof. Appendix A.

In contrast to the classic data-quantization problems, here the distortion metric, measures the difference between two different functions of the original signal and its quantized version - namely $V ^ { \pi ^ { * } ( \cdot ) }$ and $V ^ { \pi ^ { m } ( \cdot ) }$ - thus the distortion measure that we aim to optimize by solving (3) is not conventional. In fact, the variational minimization problem is solved over the vector space of joint quantization policies $\pi ^ { c }$ and action policy $\pi ^ { m }$ functions.
