# 2.2.2 Geometric Approach

In the differential geometric approach observability is investigated by computing the rank of an observability matrix. Two different algorithms were considered in this context, which differ in the way the observability matrix is built: Full Input-State-Parameter Observabilty (FISPO) and Observability Rank Condition with Direct Feedthrough (ORC-DF). Both algorithms rely on Lie derivatives of the output. For better understanding, computation of the observability matrix is explained by means of the FISPO algorithm. In a second step, disparities with respect to the ORC-DF algorithm are illustrated.

In $\mathrm { F I S P O , }$ the observability matrix ${ \mathcal { O } } ( x )$ is built by taking the Lie derivatives of the output symbolically and computing their partial derivatives with respect to the states x:

$$
\mathcal {O} (x) = \left( \begin{array}{c} \frac {\partial h (x)}{\partial x} \\ \frac {\partial}{\partial x} \left(L _ {f} h (x)\right) \\ \vdots \\ \frac {\partial}{\partial x} \left(L _ {f} ^ {n - 1} h (x)\right) \end{array} \right). \tag {7}
$$

A model is locally observable in a neighborhood $N ( x _ { 0 } )$ of a point $x _ { 0 }$ if it holds that [18]

$$\operatorname{rank} \left(\mathcal {O} (x _ {0})\right) = n. \tag {8}$$

The ORC-DF algorithm pursues a different approach in computing the observability matrix and is only applicable for input-affine systems [19], which can be described as:

$$\dot {x} = f (x) + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {p} g _ {j} (x) u _ {j}, \tag {9}y = h _ {0} (x) + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {p} h _ {j} (x) u _ {j}. \tag {10}$$

f, $g _ { j } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $h _ { 0 } , h _ { j } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ are vectorial functions, which describe the output y uniquely. They are aggregated in a column vector Ω. The observability matrix in ORC-DF is built repeatedly using symbolic computation. Initially, it is computed as partial derivatives of Ω with respect to the states x. If the observability rank condition can be satisfied, the system is locally observable. If not, the vector Ω is extended by the Lie derivatives of the previous version of Ω with respect to f and $g _ { j }$ . This procedure continues until the rank condition is satisfied or a maximum number of iterations is reached. Details can be found in [19].
