# IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS

In this section, we provide a specific example to support the theoretical condition for the emergence of cooperative behavior we obtained. To this end, we study the simplest case, where individuals can periodically switch their strategy update rules between the PC and IM updating. Specifically, we first apply the pair approximation approach to describe how the fraction of cooperators on a regular network changes over time. The resulting replicator equation for $\omega \ll 1$ limit under PC rule is given by

$$\frac {\mathrm{d} x (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = - \frac {\omega k (k - 2) c}{2 (k - 1)} x (t) (1 - x (t)), \tag {30}$$

while in the case of IM updating, it is

$$\frac {\mathrm{d} x (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {\omega k ^ {2} (k - 2) [ b - (k + 2) c ]}{(k + 1) ^ {2} (k - 1)} x (t) (1 - x (t)), \tag {31}$$

where $b > ( k + 2 ) c$ . Let $\alpha _ { 1 } = - \frac { \omega k ( k - 2 ) c } { 2 ( k - 1 ) }$ , and let $\alpha _ { 2 } =$ ωk2(k−2)[b−(k+2)c]2 . The details of calculations are given in $\underline { { \omega k ^ { 2 } ( k - 2 ) } } [ b - ( k + 2 ) c ]$ (k+1) (k−1) Appendix A. For both replicator equations above, there exist two equilibria on the boundary of the parameter space, namely, $x ^ { * } = 0$ and $x ^ { * } = 1$ . Under the PC rule, the equilibrium point $x ^ { * } = 0$ is (asymptotically) stable and $x ^ { * } = 1$ is unstable. Under the IM rule and under the condition that $b > ( k +$ $2 ) c$ , the equilibrium point $x ^ { * } = 0$ is unstable and $x ^ { * } = 1$ is (asymptotically) stable.

At each period ${ \bar { \Omega } } _ { \theta }$ , the binary sequence set A is ${ \mathcal { A } } =$ $\{ ( \alpha _ { 1 } , \alpha _ { 2 } ) , ( \alpha _ { 2 } , \alpha _ { 1 } ) \}$ , and the periodically switched system set under the sequence set B is $\Delta = \{ \Sigma | _ { ( \alpha _ { \lambda _ { 1 } } , \alpha _ { \lambda _ { 2 } } ) } | \ ( \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } ) \in \mathcal { B } \}$ , where $\boldsymbol { B } = \{ ( 1 , 2 ) , ( 2 , 1 ) \}$ }.

We consider “first PC updating, then IM updating” over the period $\bar { \Omega } _ { \theta } .$ , where the system equation (31) with PC updating represents subsystem 1, and (32) with IM updating is subsystem 2. Accordingly, the periodically switched system in Eq. (6) can be rewritten as

$$
\left. \frac {\mathrm{d} x (t)}{\mathrm{d} t} \right| _ {(\alpha_ {\lambda_ {1}}, \alpha_ {\lambda_ {2}})} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \alpha_ {\lambda_ {1}} x (t) (1 - x (t)), & t \in \Omega_ {1 \theta}, \\ \alpha_ {\lambda_ {2}} x (t) (1 - x (t)), & t \in \Omega_ {2 \theta}, \end{array} \right. \tag {32}
$$
