$$\| \nabla_ {a} F (x, a, \mu) - \nabla_ {a} F (z, a, \nu) \|\leq \left\{\mathsf {L} _ {1} ^ {\mathsf {g}} + \beta \left(\mathsf {R} _ {3} \sup _ {(x, a, z) \in \mathsf {X} \times \mathsf {A} \times \mathsf {X}} \int_ {\mathsf {X}} \| \nabla_ {a} \eta (y, x, a, z) \| \mathsf {m} (d y) + \mathsf {K} _ {1} ^ {\mathsf {g}} \mathsf {R} _ {1} \int_ {\mathsf {X}} d _ {\mathsf {X}} (y, y _ {*}) \mathsf {m} (d y)\right) \right\} d _ {\mathsf {X}} (x, \tilde {x})+ \left\{\mathsf {L} _ {2} ^ {\mathsf {g}} \mathsf {C} _ {2, \infty} + \beta \left(\mathsf {R} _ {2} \sup _ {(x, a, z) \in \mathsf {X} \times \mathsf {A} \times \mathsf {X}} \int_ {\mathsf {X}} \| \nabla_ {a} \eta (y, x, a, z) \| \mathsf {m} (d y) \right. \right.\left. \left. + K _ {2} ^ {\mathrm{g}} C _ {2, \infty} R _ {1} \int_ {X} d _ {X} (y, y _ {*}) \mathsf {m} (d y)\right) \right\} W _ {1} (\mu , \nu)$$

(5)

$$=: \mathbb {L} _ {1} (R _ {1}, R _ {2}, R _ {3}) d _ {\mathsf {X}} (x, \tilde {x}) + \mathbb {L} _ {2} (R _ {1}, R _ {2}, R _ {3}) W _ {1} (\mu , \nu)$$

Note that in order to have the bound (5), we must have a Lipschitz function J inside the integral in the definition of $F .$ . Without Lipschitz continuity of $^ { J , }$ it is not possible to establish the same result. In the absence of Lipschitz continuity of $J ,$ we must substantially strengthen the assumptions on c¯ and $\bar { p }$ to obtain a similar bound. For instance, instead of Wasserstein distance of order 1, we might need to use total variation distance, which is much stronger than $W _ { 1 }$ , in assumptions (c) and (d).

We also note that the bound in (5) is fairly general and crude. By using further properties of the transition probability and the one-stage cost function in addition to conditions above in specific examples, one can significantly improve this bound.

3.2. Lipschitz Continuity of MFE Policy. In this section, we establish that the policy $\pi ^ { * }$ in the mean-field equilibrium $( \mu ^ { * } , \pi ^ { * } )$ is Lipschitz continuous. Recall that given any meanfield term $\mu ,$ , the corresponding optimization problem in the infinite population limit can be formulated as a Markov decision processes, denoted as $\mathrm { M D P } _ { \mu } .$ , with the following components

$$\{\mathsf {X}, \mathsf {A}, c _ {\mu}, p _ {\mu}, \mu \}$$

where

$$c _ {\mu} (x, a) := c (x, a, \mu) = \int_ {X} \bar {c} (x, a, z) \mu (d z)p _ {\mu} (\cdot \mid x, a) := p (\cdot \mid x, a, \mu) = \int_ {\mathsf {X}} \bar {p} (\cdot \mid x, a, z) \mu (d z)$$
