# CONTENTS

1 Introduction 1

1.1 Contributions 3

2 Preliminary Definitions and Results 3

3 Linear Mean-field Games . . 9

3.1 Stationary Infinite Population Limit 10

3.1.1 Assumptions . . . 12

3.1.2 Sufficient Conditions for Assumption (d) . . . 12

3.2 Lipschitz Continuity of MFE Policy . . . 14

3.3 Lipschitz Continuity of Best Response to MFE Policy . . . . . . . 16

3.3.1 Symmetry of V ∗ 16

3.3.2 Lipschitz Continuity of V ∗ . 17

3.3.3 Lipschitz Continuity of Best-response Policy . . . . 21

4 Approximate Equilibrium in N -agent Linear MFGs . . 25

5 Infinite Population Game as GNEP . 38

5.1 GNEP Formulation 39

5.2 Computing Equilibrium of GNEP 43

5.3 A numerical example . . . 47

6 Conclusion 51

Acknowledgments . . 51

References . . 51

1. Introduction. This paper introduces linear mean-field games, which are discrete-time stochastic dynamic games with one-stage cost and transition probability that are linear with respect to the empirical distribution of the states (i.e., mean-field term). Specifically, at each time step, a generic agent is randomly coupled with another agent, where the randomization is generated via a mean-field term. The standard method for analyzing these game models is to look at the problem’s infinite population limit to obtain an approximate Nash equilibrium. This idea was first introduced to deal with continuous-time differential games with a large number of agents interacting via a mean-field term in the works of [24] and [25]. We refer the reader to [22, 37, 21, 6, 7, 8, 16, 29] for studies on continuous-time classical mean-field games with different models and cost functions.

In this paper, our goal is to obtain approximate Nash equilibria for linear mean-field games by considering a stationary infinite population limit. In the finite-agent setting, we first show that the stationary or oblivious mean-field equilibrium (see [40, 39]), which is the equilibrium notion in the infinite population limit, is approximately Nash. In particular, we can tell how stationary mean-field equilibrium is close to the true Nash equilibrium by looking at the number of players. Then, by formulating the stationary infinite population game as a generalized Nash equilibrium problem (GNEP), we establish an algorithm to compute stationary mean-field equilibrium.
