# V. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION

In this work, we systematically study the problem of cooperation on regular networks in the scenario of periodic switching of strategy update rules in a game-theoretical framework. By using the approach of switched system theory, we derive the theoretical condition for the promotion of cooperation. Under this condition, the periodically switched system with different strategy update rules can converge to the full cooperation state. In addition, we consider a concrete example of the PC and IM updating, and find that our numerical results verify our theoretical conclusions. Our work provides an important insight into understanding the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation for theoretically modeling those individuals who use different update rules periodically.

We note that, however, our present work studies the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation under periodic switching of update rules on regular networks. Indeed, the regular network is a specific and simple form of networks. Thus, it is interesting to extend our work to general interaction networks. Moreover, our work focuses on the framework of the prisoner’s dilemma game, which is a classic paradigm for studying the evolution of cooperation. There are other prototypical twoplayer dilemmas, such as snowdrift game [47] and stag-hunt game [48], which are also typical paradigms for studying the problem of cooperation. Hence it is meaningful to study how the periodic switching of strategy update rules influences the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation in these games. Furthermore, apart from the simple pairwise-comparison and imitation rules, one can consider more sophisticated decision-making mechanisms, such as the multi-armed bandit problem [49]. The periodically switching between exploration and exploitation in a decision-making process of the problem above can provide some insights into the emergence of cooperative behavior and its stability on complex networks, which needs further investigation.
