# 1 Introduction

Modeling errors and environmental uncertainties are unavoidable in practice. Therefore, purely model based controllers tend to exhibit unexpected or unwanted behaviors in the real-world. One key solution to this problem is to employ learning-based methods that utilize powerful learning elements such as deep neural networks (DNN). Such methods attempt to learn a good model of underlying nonlinear dynamics while the system is in operation in a manner that does not compromise safety and performance. We refer readers to [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] and references therein.

To address the above challenge, the available domain knowledge in terms of approximate model is utilized in [12, 13], along with the learning elements. We refer readers to an excellent survey on safe reinforcement learning [14] and references therein. One key approach for safe learning is to augment the learning based controller with model predictive control (MPC) and related methods to guarantee safety through constraint satisfaction and improve the performance over time [15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27]. The proper pairing of learning and MPC can bring useful features of both methods while compensating their drawbacks.

Our main goal in this article is to address these gaps by creating a learning based MPC architectures with performance and safety guarantees. When uncertainties are structured, they can be simply represented in terms of (possibly) high dimensional feature basis functions and the learning mechanism acts on the disturbances [28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33]. These disturbance rejecting actions taken by the learning mechanism are experienced by the MPC controller as additional disturbances. If the learning mechanism eventually rejects the disturbance then MPC can ensure asymptotic convergence of closed-loop states while satisfying the underlying constraints [34]. In this article, we extend the results of [34] for unstructured uncertainties.

We present a problem setup in §2. The formulation of Deep MPC controller is given in §3. We validate our theoretical results with the help of a numerical experiments in §4 and conclude in §5. The real time implementable training mechanism of DNN, stability of the overall algorithm and proofs are given in the appendix.
