| time steps | tube MPC | shallow MPC | deep MPC |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | 15.0 | 15.0 | 15.0 |
| 50 | -5.0 | -5.0 | -5.0 |
| 100 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 150 | 5.0 | 5.0 | 5.0 |
| 200 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 250 | -5.0 | -5.0 | -5.0 |
| 300 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
</details>

Figure 1: deep MPC outperforms shallow MPC

Our control objective is to steer the states of the system from $x _ { 0 } = \left[ \pi / 3 0 ~ \pi / 1 2 \right] ^ { \top }$ to the origin. We compare our proposed approach with two controllers, namely tube MPC [41] and shallow MPC. In order to design shallow MPC, we follow our approach but we consider only a single layer neural network with 3 neurons. To design the deep MPC, we use a four layer network with sizes [2, 5, 5, 3] respectively, where the first hidden layer has 5 neurons and the outermost layer has 3 neurons. The weights of the output layer are updated with our adaptive weight update law $( \mathring { \ S } \mathrm { A } . 1 )$ , while the remaining three hidden layers are trained on a secondary machine (§A.2) using SGD with momentum constant 0.9 and learning rate 0.01. We use nonlinear activation functions after each of the inner layers, and these functions are respectively [ReLU, ReLU,tanh]. We follow the approach of [43] for the experience selection (inclusion and removal of data pairs [44]). In particular, we construct a matrix $T T ^ { \top }$ , where $T$ consists of $p _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ labels, and compute its singular values. If the replacement of $i ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ label by new label gives larger singular values than the old one, then the new data pair is added at the $i ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ position of the replay buffer.

Our experimental results are depicted in Fig. 1. Due to the sudden change in $\nu _ { t }$ at time instants shown by vertical grid lines, tube MPC has oscillations in roll angle. The performance of shallow MPC is affected at each instant of abrupt change, which depicts its incapability of generalization. However, deep MPC demonstrates a good generalization with only three hidden layers.
