3.5. Auxiliary problem: DPA in the ground space. Before presenting our main results, we introduce an auxiliary optimal control problem in the ground space:

$$
j(x,r_{0},\ldots ,r_{N}) = \inf_{\substack{x_{k}\in X_{k}\\ u_{k}\in U_{k}}}g_{N}(x_{N},r_{N}) + \sum_{k = 0}^{N - 1}g_{k}(x_{k},u_{k},r_{k})
\mathrm{s.t.} x _ {k + 1} = f _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}), \quad x _ {0} = x.$$

Similarly to (3.1), the DPA provides the cost-to-go $j _ { k } : X _ { k } \times R _ { k } \times . . . \times R _ { N } \to \bar { \mathbb { R } } _ { \geq 0 } \colon$

$$
\begin{array}{c} j _ {N} (x _ {N}, r _ {N}) := g _ {N} (x _ {N}, r _ {N}); \\ j _ {k} (x _ {k}, r _ {k}, \ldots , r _ {N}) := \inf _ {u _ {k} \in U _ {k}} g _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, r _ {k}) + j _ {k + 1} (f _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}), r _ {k + 1}, \ldots , r _ {N}). \end{array} \tag {3.2}
$$

Specifically, we use lower-case $j _ { k }$ for the cost-to-go in the ground space and upper-case $J _ { k }$ for its probability space twin. By (3.2), (ε-)optimal inputs will be feedback law $u _ { k } : X _ { k } \times R _ { k } \times . . . \times R _ { N } \to U _ { k }$ . In particular, an input $u _ { k } \in U _ { k }$ (or, with a slight abuse of notation, a feedback law $u _ { k } : X _ { k } \times R _ { k } \times . . . \times R _ { N } \to U _ { k } )$ is ε-optimal in (3.2) if

$$g _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, r _ {k}) + j _ {k + 1} (f _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}), r _ {k + 1}, \ldots , r _ {N}) \leq j _ {k} (x _ {k}, r _ {k}, \ldots , r _ {N}) + \varepsilon . \tag {3.3}$$

4. Main Result. In this section, we present our main result. We first provide an informal statement in subsection 4.1. The rigorous version is in subsection 4.2.

4.1. A separation principle in the probability space. Our main result predicates a separation principle:

Informal Statement. Consider the setting of Problem 3.2. At every stage $k ,$ the following hold:

(i) The cost-to-go $J _ { k }$ is a multi-marginal optimal transport problem between the current state $\mu _ { k }$ and the future references $\rho _ { k } , \ldots , \rho _ { N }$ , with transportation cost being the cost-to-go in the ground space $j _ { k }$ .

(ii) The optimal state-input distribution $\lambda _ { k } ^ { * }$ results from the following strategy:

(1) Find the optimal input $\boldsymbol { u } _ { k } ^ { * }$ in the ground space.   
(2) Find the optimal transport plan $\gamma _ { k } ^ { * }$ for the cost-to-go $J _ { k }$   
(3) Dispatch the particles as prescribed by $\gamma _ { k } ^ { * }$ , and apply $\boldsymbol { u } _ { k } ^ { * }$ to steer them to their allocated trajectory.
