$$
J_{k}(\mu_{k},\rho_{k},\ldots ,\rho_{N}):= \inf_{\substack{\lambda_{k}\in \mathcal{P}(X_{k}\times U_{k})\\ (\operatorname{proj}_{X_{k}}^{X_{k}\times U_{k}})_{\#}\lambda_{k} = \mu_{k}}}\mathcal{K}[g_{k}](\lambda_{k},\rho_{k}) + J_{k + 1}(f_{k\#}\lambda_{k},\rho_{k + 1},\ldots ,\rho_{N}).
$$

Unfortunately, the DPA in probability spaces poses several analytic and computational challenges; we mention two. First, it is unclear under which easy-to-verify assumptions minimizers exist. Second, even if they do, their computation remains challenging, if not prohibitive. Already when all sets are finite, and the (generally infinite-dimensional) probability space reduces to the finite-dimensional probability simplex, (3.1) is excruciating. For instance, the mere evaluation of $J _ { N }$ involves solving an optimal transport problem with all the related computational difficulties [32, 36, 46, 50]. Thus, the optimization of $J _ { N }$ , needed to compute $J _ { N - 1 }$ , will inevitably be very demanding.

In the following, we show that the solution of Problem 3.2 can be constructed from the solution of the DPA in the ground space $( { \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } } X _ { 0 } , X _ { 1 } , \dots . )$ and a single (possibly multi-marginal) optimal transport problem. In other words, a separation principle holds: The optimal control law results from the combination of optimal low-level control laws (found via DPA in the ground space) and a fleet-level control law (found via an optimal transport problem). This way, we bypass the cumbersome application of DPA in probability spaces as well as the repeated evaluation of optimal transport discrepancies. At least formally, our result generalizes two well-known extreme cases. On the one hand, when considering Dirac’s delta probability measures, the DPA in the probability space reduces to the DPA in the ground space (see Example 1.1); on the other hand, when considering trivial dynamics (i.e., N = 1 and $f _ { 0 } ( x _ { 0 } , u _ { 0 } ) = x _ { 0 } )$ and an optimal transport discrepancy as a terminal cost, Problem 3.2 reduces to an optimal transport problem. Thus, DPA in probability spaces should be at least “as difficult $\mathrm { a s } ^ { \dag }$ solving both the DPA in the ground space and an optimal transport problem. As we shall see below, it is not “more difficult” than that.
