# B. Adaptive control of dynamic networks

Consider a dynamic network G with a series of temporal subgraphs $\{ \mathrm { G } _ { 1 } ( \mathrm { V } _ { 1 } , \mathrm { E } _ { 1 } ) , \mathrm { G } _ { 2 } ( \mathrm { V } _ { 2 } , \mathrm { E } _ { 2 } ) , . . . , \mathrm { G } _ { \mathrm { T } } ( \mathrm { V } _ { \mathrm { T } } , \mathrm { E } _ { \mathrm { T } } ) , . . . \}$ , where $\mathrm { G _ { i } ( V _ { i } , E _ { i } ) }$ is the i-th temporal subgraph at time i. The objective of adaptive control is to derive an MDS sequence, denoted as $\mathrm { D S \ = }$ $\{ \mathrm { D } _ { 1 } , \mathrm { D } _ { 2 } , . . . , \mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { T } } , . . . \}$ , which we refer to as the Driver set Sequence. Here $\mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { i } }$ represents the MDS of temporal subgraph $\mathrm { G } _ { \mathrm { i } }$ at time i.

It is worth noting that $\mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { i } }$ and $\mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { i } ^ { - 1 } }$ may differ significantly, which can lead to extra control costs. Therefore we need to ensure that the newly computed MDS is as similar as possible to the previous MDS to impose minimal disruption to the control scheme. To this end, we introduce the Extra Control Cost (ECC) to quantify the difference between consecutive MDSs of all consecutive temporal subgraphs:

$$E C C = \sum_ {i = 2} ^ {T} | D _ {i} - D _ {i - 1} |$$

where $\mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { i } }$ represents the MDS of the i-th temporal subgraph, and $\left| \mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { i } } { - } \mathrm { D } _ { \mathrm { i - 1 } } \right|$ is the number of driver nodes belonging to the current MDS but not to the previous one. In other words, ECC quantifies the number of new driver nodes required to adapt to the network changes. Our objective is to minimize ECC to reduce overall extra control costs:

Objective:

Minimize ??????(????)

Subject to:

$$
s. t. \left\{ \begin{array}{c} D S = \{D _ {1}, D _ {2}, \ldots D _ {i}, \ldots \} \\ \forall i, D _ {i} \in A l l   p o s s b i l e   M D S   o f   G _ {i} (V _ {i}, E _ {i}) \end{array} \right.
$$

It is important to note that minimizing the ECC over a tem poral subgraph sequence constitutes an online combinatorial optimization problem, which is inherently non-convex and NP hard, as it involves selecting different MDSs from multiple valid maximum matchings at each snapshot. Therefore, we do not aim to achieve global ECC optimality, but instead focus on practically minimizing ECC through heuristic methods.
