On the other hand, (116) and (120) lead to $\hat { u } _ { 1 } ( t ) = \Phi ( t ) x _ { \hat { u } } ( t ) + \left( \hat { \Phi } ( t ) - \Phi ( t ) \right) \mathbb { E } [ x _ { \hat { u } } ( t ) ]$ . Substituting this equality in (5) written for uk(·) replaced by $\hat { u } _ { k } ( \cdot ) , k = 1 , 2$ , we obtain:

$$\mathcal {J} (s, T, x _ {s}; \hat {u} _ {1} (\cdot), \hat {u} _ {2} (\cdot)) = \mathcal {J} _ {\Phi} ^ {\hat {\Phi}} (s, T, x _ {s}; \hat {u} _ {2} (\cdot)) \tag {122}$$

for all $x _ { s } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . Invoking (94) together with (121) and (122) we get: $\left. \Upsilon _ { \Phi } ^ { \hat { \Phi } } ( s ) x ( s ) , x ( s ) \right. \leq \left. \hat { X } ( s ) x ( s ) , x ( s ) \right.$ for all $x _ { s } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ which is equivalent to (114). Thus the proof ends.

We are now in position to state and prove the main result of this section:

Theorem 3.15 The following are equivalent:

i) the solutions $X ( \cdot ) , ~ \hat { X } ( \cdot )$ of the TVPs (7), (8), are defined on the whole interval [0, T ] and additionally X(t) satisfies the conditions (14)-(15).   
ii) the conditions C1) and C2) are fulfilled;

Proof 3.16 $i ) { \Rightarrow } i i ) \ I f X ( \cdot ) , \ \hat { X } ( \cdot )$ are well defined on the whole interval [0; T ], we may define F (t) and $\hat { F } ( t )$ via (27) and (28), respectively. By setting:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \Phi (t) \triangleq \left( \begin{array}{c c} I _ {m _ {1}} & 0 \end{array} \right) F (t) \\ \hat {\Phi} (t) \triangleq \left( \begin{array}{c c} I _ {m _ {1}} & 0 \end{array} \right) \hat {F} (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {123}
$$

one can shows, using Lemma 5.1.1 from [6] and relying on adequate algebraic manipulations, that the TVPs (7) and (8) can be equivalently rewritten as (89)-(90), respectively. Because $X ( \cdot )$ satisfies the sign conditions $( 1 4 a )$ and (15a), it follows that the TVPs of type (89), (90) have the solutions $\Big ( \Upsilon _ { \Phi } ( \cdot ) , \Upsilon _ { \Phi } ^ { \hat { \Phi } } ( \cdot ) \Big ) : [ 0 , T ]  S _ { n } \times S _ { n }$ with the additional property that $\Upsilon _ { \Phi } ( t )$ satisfies the constraints (92)-(93). Hence, from Corollary 3.8, it follows that the condition C2) is fulfilled.

In a similar way, by using the factorization (16)-(19) on the interval [0, T ] and setting:
