Altogether, Corollary 4.2 drastically reduces the offline computation at the price of slightly higher online computation. Namely, it alleviates the factorial growth in the number of agents of the DPA in probability spaces, which makes already small instances intractable, while only requiring the real-time solution of an allocation problem. Moreover, the recipe in Corollary 4.2 does not require additional (offline) computation when the fleet is reconfigured (e.g., an agent is added or removed).

5. Examples and Pitfalls. In subsection 5.1, we present two examples where two marginals are enough, in line with the existing literature [39, 41]. Then, in subsection 5.2, we showcase that, in general, the multi-marginal formulation is necessary. Finally, subsection 5.3 shows that our results do not readily extend to noisy dynamics.

5.1. Examples when two marginals are all you need. We start with an example to which Corollary 4.2 applies.

Example 5.1 (Integrator particle dynamics, input effort). Suppose we aim at steering a probability measure $\mu _ { 0 } \in \mathcal P \left( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right)$ to a target $\rho _ { N } \in \mathcal { P } \left( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right)$ in N steps; i.e., $X _ { k } = R _ { k } = \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . The input space is $U _ { k } = \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , and the dynamics are $f _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } ) = x _ { k } +$ $u _ { k }$ . The costs are $g _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } ) = \| u _ { k } \| ^ { 2 }$ , and $g _ { N } ( x _ { N } , r _ { N } ) = 0 { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } x _ { N } = r _ { N }$ and +∞ otherwise, so that the stage cost in the probability space is $\mathcal { K } [ g _ { k } ] ( \lambda _ { k } , \rho _ { k } ) = \mathbb { E } ^ { \lambda _ { k } } \left\lceil \left\| u _ { k } \right\| ^ { 2 } \right\rceil$ , N N N  N  Noptimal control problem in the ground space admits the solution and the terminal cost is ${ \mathcal K } [ g _ { N } ] ( \mu _ { N } , \rho _ { N } ) = 0 \mathrm { i f } \mu _ { N } = \rho _ { N }$ and +∞ otherwise. The $\begin{array} { r } { u _ { k } ( x _ { k } , r _ { N } ) = \frac { r _ { N } - x _ { k } } { N - k } } \end{array}$ with the associated cost-to-go $\begin{array} { r } { j _ { k } ( x _ { k } , r _ { N } ) = \frac { N - k } { N ^ { 2 } } \left\| r _ { N } - x _ { k } \right\| ^ { 2 } } \end{array}$ . By Corollary 4.2, the cost-to-go in the space of probability measures $J _ { k }$ is
