The invertibility of the transformations is crucial for the design, otherwise a representation of the system in canonical Brunovsky form and the feedback linearization will fail. This must also be taken into account when implementing the transformations as neural networks. One solution would be to implement $\Phi _ { x }$ as an analytically invertible neural network, but this restricts the approach to invertible activation functions, constant number of units in each layer $n _ { l } ,$ and to the input-state linearizable scenario with dim $\operatorname { \mathrm { \Omega } } ( x _ { k } ) = \dim ( z _ { k } )$ . Although this does not contradict the imposed assumptions, the planned extension of this data-driven control approach to flat systems in the discrete-time case, c.f., [3] and [4], would not be possible. Therefore, $\Phi _ { x }$ and $\Phi _ { u }$ as well as $\Phi _ { x } ^ { - 1 }$ and $\Phi _ { u } ^ { - 1 }$ are implemented as separate artificial neural networks. As already indicated in Fig. 2, this task is similar to learning an auto-encoder structure with $\Phi _ { x } , \ \Phi _ { u }$ as encoders and $\Phi _ { x } ^ { - 1 } , \Phi _ { u } ^ { - 1 }$ as decoders, where the encoded Brunovsky states are shifted through the Brunovsky system (3) and decoded back to the original coordinates. In addition to achieving high prediction accuracy, the invertibility constraint for the two transformations $x \ = \ \Phi _ { x } ^ { - 1 } ( \cdot ) \circ \Phi _ { x } ( x )$ and $u \_ =$ $\Phi _ { u } ^ { - 1 } ( x , \cdot ) \circ \Phi _ { u } ( x , u )$ must be ensured. As is common with auto-encoders, see [10], this was accomplished by including the constraints as penalty terms in the cost function along with the prediction loss. The transformations are functional approximated as feed forward artificial neural networks. The numerical results in Section V are achieved with a one hidden layer network topology and nonlinear activation function $\phi ( s ) = [ \phi _ { 1 } ( s _ { 1 } ) , \ldots , \phi _ { n _ { l } } ( s _ { n _ { l } } ) ] ^ { T } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { l } } , s _ { i } \in \mathbb { R }$ . The transformations were thus approximated as

$$\hat {\Phi} (x _ {k}; W _ {\hat {\Phi}, i}, b _ {\hat {\Phi}, i}) = W _ {\hat {\Phi}, 2} \phi (W _ {\hat {\Phi}, 1} x _ {k} + b _ {\hat {\Phi}, 1}) + b _ {\hat {\Phi}, 2} \tag {6}$$
