# C. Results on synthetic networks

The AC and MM algorithms were first experimentally compared on synthetic dynamic networks (Figure 5). The ECC for the AC algorithm, ${ \mathrm { E C C } } _ { \mathrm { A C } } ,$ the MM algorithm, ${ \mathrm { E C C } } _ { \mathrm { M M } } ,$ and their ratio $\mathrm { E C C _ { A C } / E C C _ { M M } }$ were computed. AC consistently outperformed MM on synthetic ER and SF networks with varying reconnection ratio r and average degree k, achieving $\mathrm { E C C _ { A C } / E C C _ { M M } { < } l }$ on the two types of synthetic networks we tested (Figure 5). A smaller $\mathrm { E C C _ { A C } / E C C _ { M M } }$ ratio indicates that AC outperforms MM. Notably, on stable networks (with reconnection ratio $\mathbf { r } < 0 . 1 )$ , the AC was nearly twice as effective as the MM algorithm, spending almost half of the ECC. Even with an increasing reconnection ratio r, the AC algorithm outperformed MM across networks with varied average degrees. Furthermore, similar optimization outcomes across various parameter l values indicated a specific trend in MDS optimization selection. It appeared that the MDS optimization selection might depend on network topological structures and that of the immediately precedingtemporal subgraph.Consequently, there isnoneed to retain the full history of topology, which enhanced the efficiencyof thealgorithmandbroadeneditsapplicability.

Moreover, the AC algorithm was more efficient on SF-based dynamic networks, averaging a ratio of $\mathrm { E C C } _ { \mathrm { A C } } / \mathrm { E C C } _ { \mathrm { M M } } = 0 . 7 2$ , than on ER-based dynamic networks, with an average $\mathrm { E C C _ { A C } / E C C _ { M M } = 0 . 8 4 }$ . This variance can be primarily attributed to the unique characteristics inherent to each network model. As per Equation (2), the AC algorithm preferentially favors nodes with greater stability. It aligns well with the power-law distribution trait in the SF model. In contrast, the ER model's random evolution cannot satisfy this characteristic, particularly when the reconnection ratio r is large. Moreover, while AC's performance deteriorates with increasing reconnection ratio r, the decrement is more subtle for SF-based networks than ER-based networks.
