In this paper we will focus particularly on LQ zero-sum differential games driven by SDEs with McKean–Vlasov type.
More specifically, we are studying in the present work the problem of the existence of an open-loop Stackelberg equilibrium for a two persons zero-sum LQ McKean–Vlasov type differential game.
It is known that the concept of Stackelberg equilibrium is defined for a differential game with a hierarchical structure in decision making, often named leader-follower structure of the considered game.
We show how one can obtain a state-feedback representation of the pairs of strategies which achieve an open-loop Stackelberg equilibrium in terms of the global solutions of a system of coupled generalized coupled matrix differential Riccati-type equations with specific sign constraints on the quadratic parts of such nonlinear equations.
Such constraints lead to a sign indefiniteness of the quadratic parts of the involved Riccati equations.
We mention here that such a system of coupled Riccati equations has been first introduced by [27] in order to solve an LQ mean-field control problem.
The solvability of these two Riccati equations is established in [27] under certain positivity conditions and [21] showed that the solvability is equivalent to the uniform convexity of the cost functional.
Note however that in the case of zero-sum LQ McKean–Vlasov type differential games, there are few results in the literature regarding the solvability of the associated Riccati equations with indefinite sign of there quadratic parts.
We cite here the efforts made by [18, 25] in order to tackle this problem.
A review of the solvability conditions proposed in [18, 25] showed that they are obtained under constraints on the system’s parameters.
Also, the proposed existence conditions are only sufficients.
Most importantly, the given conditions do not take into account the sign conditions constraints imposed on the quadratic part of the Riccati equations involved in the solution of the LQ dynamic game.
Knowing that these sign conditions play a key role in the solution process, this represents in our opinion a strong limitation for such results.
Very recently, [23] addressed such a challenging problem under the general framework of uniform convexity/concavity.
