# 3.1 Several preliminary results.

In this subsection we deal first with the problem of the global existence on the whole interval [0, T ] of the solutions $X ( \cdot ) , \hat { X } ( \cdot )$ of the TVPs (7) and (8) respectively, when their quadratic terms are of definite sign. This result will be used later to state the necessary and sufficient conditions for the global existence of the solutions of the TVPs (7) and (8) satisfying conditions (14), (15). The next result is a compact version of the result stated in Lemma 2.1 adapted to the use in this section.

Lemma 3.1 If $s \in \mathcal { T } _ { X } \cap \mathcal { T } _ { \hat { X } }$ then for any $u ( \cdot ) \in L _ { w } ^ { 2 } ( [ s , T ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { m } )$ and $x _ { s } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ we have:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {J} (s, T, x _ {s}; u (\cdot)) = \frac {1}{2} \left<   \hat {X} (s) x _ {s}, x _ {s} \right> \\ + \frac {1}{2} \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {s} ^ {T} \left\{\left\langle \left(R (t) + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {r} B _ {j} ^ {\top} (t) X (t) B _ {j} (t)\right) \left(u ^ {1} (t) - F (t) x _ {u} ^ {1} (t)\right), u ^ {1} (t) - F (t) x _ {u} ^ {1} (t) \right. \right\rangle \right. \\ \left. + \left\langle \left(\hat {R} (t) + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {r} \hat {B} _ {j} ^ {\top} (t) X (t) \hat {B} _ {j} (t)\right) \left(u ^ {2} (t) - \hat {F} (t) x _ {u ^ {2}} ^ {2} (t)\right), u ^ {2} (t) - F (t) x _ {u ^ {2}} ^ {2} (t) \right\rangle \right\} d t \Bigg ] \tag {44} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $F ( t )$ and $\hat { F } ( t )$ were defined in (27), (28), respectively.

The next two propositions will play an important role in the proof of the main result of this section.

Proposition 3.2 For the controlled system (1) and the quadratic functional (2) the following are equivalent:

i) there exists $\delta > 0$ with the property that:

$$\mathcal {J} (0, T, 0; u (\cdot)) \geq \delta \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} | u (t) | ^ {2} d t \right]; \quad \forall u (\cdot) \in L _ {w} ^ {2} ([ 0, T ], \mathbb {R} ^ {m}) \tag {45}$$

ii) the $T V P s \ ( 7 )$ and $( \delta )$ have the solutions $X ( \cdot ) : [ 0 , T ]  S _ { n }$ and ${ \hat { X } } ( \cdot ) : [ 0 , T ] \to S _ { n }$ , respectively, which are satisfying the sign conditions:

$$R (t) + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {r} B _ {j} ^ {\top} (t) X (t) B _ {j} (t) \geq \gamma I _ {m} \tag {46}\hat {R} (t) + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {r} \hat {B} _ {j} ^ {\top} (t) X (t) \hat {B} _ {j} (t) \geq \hat {\gamma} I _ {m} \tag {47}$$

for all $t \in [ 0 , T ] , \gamma$ and $\hat { \gamma }$ being positive constants.
