In a two player zero-sum differential game, the two players have opposite aims. In the present work, we assume that the aim of the Player 1 is to choose the strategies $u _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ from the set of its admissible strategies in order to maximize the value of the objective function, while the Player 2 chooses its strategies $u _ { 2 } ( \cdot )$ from the set of its admissible strategies in order to minimize the value of the objective function. Roughly speaking, the solution of a problem described by a zero-sum differential game with two players is a pair of strategies $( \tilde { u } _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) , \ \tilde { u } _ { 2 } ( \cdot ) )$ named a pair of equilibrium strategies. Such a pair of strategies, if it exists, is the best choice for both players according to the adopted definition. Among the most frequently studied types of equilibria are Nash equilibrium strategy and Stackelberg equilibrium strategy.

In the present work we are studying the problem of the existence of an open-loop Stackelberg equilibrium for a two persons zero-sum linear quadratic mean-field differential game described by the controlled system (4) and the objective function (5). It is known that the concept of Stackelberg equilibrium is defined for a differential game with a hierarchical structure in decision making, often named leader-follower structure of the considered game.

In this work, we consider the case when Player 1 is the leader and the Player 2 is the follower. this means that Player 1 is the first to announce its strategy $u _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) \in \mathcal { U } _ { 1 } \triangleq L _ { w } ^ { 2 } \left\{ [ s , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { m _ { 1 } } \right\}$ . Next, Player 2 will choose a strategy $\tilde { u } _ { 2 } ( \cdot ; u _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) )$ (depending upon the announced strategy $u _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ of the leader) which minimizes the mapping $u _ { 2 } ( \cdot )  \mathcal { I } ( s , T , x _ { s } ; u _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) , u _ { 2 } ( \cdot ) ) : L _ { w } ^ { 2 } \{ [ s , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { m _ { 2 } } \}  \mathbb { R }$ .
