# 3. Approximate Dynamic Programming

In this section, we introduce a method of approximating the solution to the mean-field game system (10). Let the approximate value function $\tilde { \nu } ^ { A , B }$ : $[ 0 , T ] \times Y \to \mathbb { R }$ be the Fourier series:

$$\tilde {\mathcal {V}} ^ {A, B} (t, y) := \sum_ {i, j = 0} ^ {K - 1} \left(a _ {i j} (t) \sin (\frac {2 \pi i y _ {1}}{\mathfrak {L}}) + b _ {i j} (t) \cos (\frac {2 \pi i y _ {1}}{\mathfrak {L}})\right) \cos (\frac {2 \pi j y _ {2}}{s _ {m a x}}). \tag {13}$$

This choice for an approximate value function satisfies the periodic and Neumann boundary conditions we desire for the value function, and hence also the state constraints. This is the main reason for choosing this approximate value function. In addition, it is linear in the weights, which makes computing gradients w.r.t. the weights much simpler.

For problems where state constraints do not enter, one could pick sigmoid functions or other common basis or activation functions used in machine learning. However, for state constrained problems, these might lead to violation of boundary conditions for the value function. One could penalize violation of boundary conditions instead, but since basis functions which exactly satisfy the boundary conditions (state constraints) were so readily available, we simply picked them.

A, $B : \lceil 0 , T \rceil  \mathbb { R } ^ { K \times K }$ will be subject to dynamics which we will specify shortly.

Unfortunately, due to the control and disturbance constraints, the optimal control (11) and worst-case disturbance (12) are not differentiable w.r.t. the co-state p. This leads to issues with uniqueness when we form gradientbased update rules for the approximate value function weights. So, for the optimization problem on the pre-Hamiltonian, we select the following feasible, smooth sub-solutions:

$$\tilde {u} (p _ {2}) := - u _ {\max} \tanh (p _ {2}) \tag {14}\tilde {w} (p _ {2}) := w _ {\max} \tanh (\gamma^ {2} p _ {2}). \tag {15}$$

These are sigmoidal approximations to the optimal cutoff ramp function solutions.

Now, we define the approximate Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman-Isaacs (HJB-I) cost (or residual error):

$$E (A, B, \rho) := | | \alpha \tilde {\mathcal {V}} ^ {A, B} + \tilde {H} (\cdot , m, \nabla_ {y} \tilde {\mathcal {V}} ^ {A, B}) + \epsilon \partial_ {y _ {2}} ^ {2} \tilde {\mathcal {V}} ^ {A, B} | | _ {\mathrm{L} ^ {2} (Y; \mathbb {R})} ^ {2}, \tag {16}$$
