# D. Results on real networks

We evaluated the AC and other algorithms on a diverse set of 20 real-world dynamic networks, chosen based on their topological structures and dynamic changes. The use of these networks was to ensure that the algorithms were evaluated across a wide range of conditions to gain a deep understanding of their generality and efficacy on real-world networks.

We computed the ECCs for the AC and MM algorithms on the 20 real networks. The results showed that AC outperformed MM, achieving an average ECCAC/ECCMM ratio of 0.81 across all networks (TABLE III). However, the performance of AC varied significantly across different networks. For example, on the email-Eu-core-temporal and contacts-prox-high-school-2013 networks, AC performed significantly better than MM, resulting in $\mathrm { E C C } _ { \mathrm { A C } } / \mathrm { E C C } _ { \mathrm { M M } } { = } 0 . 5 0$ . Conversely, AC and MM exhibited comparable performance on highly dynamically changing networks, like like sx-superuser and edit-enwikibooks (TABLE III).

To further understand the varying performance of the AC algorithm on different networks, we studied the dynamic network characteristics. We calculated the node and edge similarities of consecutive subgraphs as a representation of the network's dynamism (see Section Performance metric and benchmark algorithm for comparison). On networks exhibiting low dynamism, characterized by higher node and edge similarities, AC significantly outperformed MM. However, as the dynamism of the networks increased, the efficacy of AC declined. There is a negative correlation between the $\mathrm { E C C _ { A C } / E C C _ { M M } }$ ratio and node and edge similarities (Figure 9). The higher the average similarity in consecutive subgraphs, the better that AC would perform. This phenomenon can be attributed to the fact that when there are drastic alterations in neighboring subgraphs, the fundamental objective of the AC optimization algorithm—aiming to preserve consistency in the driver node set across time—becomes challenging to achieve, resulting in a performance dip. However, in scenarios where the network undergoes gradual changes, AC distinctly surpasses MM, attesting to the efficacy of the AC algorithm.
