$$A (t) = A _ {0} + \int_ {0} ^ {t} \mathfrak {G} (A (s), B (s), \rho (s)) d s; \tag {27}B (t) = B _ {0} + \int_ {0} ^ {t} \mathfrak {H} (A (s), B (s), \rho (s)) d s; \tag {28}(\rho (t), \psi) _ {\mathcal {D} ^ {*} (Y; \mathbb {R}), \mathcal {D} (Y; \mathbb {R})} = (\rho_ {0}, \psi) _ {\mathcal {D} ^ {*} (Y; \mathbb {R}), \mathcal {D} (Y; \mathbb {R})} + \dots\int_ {0} ^ {t} (\rho (s), - \mathcal {A} ^ {*} (s; \tilde {u} (\partial_ {y _ {2}} \tilde {\mathcal {V}}), \tilde {w} (\partial_ {y _ {2}} \tilde {\mathcal {V}})) \psi) _ {\mathcal {D} ^ {*} (Y; \mathbb {R}), \mathcal {D} (Y; \mathbb {R})} d s; \tag {29}(\nabla_ {y} ^ {\top} \rho) \mathbf {L n} = 0 \text { almost everywhere on } [ 0, T ] \times \partial Y. \tag {30}$$

Here,

$$(\rho , - \mathcal {A} ^ {*} (t; u, w) \psi) _ {\mathcal {D} ^ {*} (Y; \mathbb {R}), \mathcal {D} (Y; \mathbb {R})} := \int_ {Y} \rho \epsilon \partial_ {y _ {2}} ^ {2} \psi + \rho y _ {2} \partial_ {y _ {1}} \psi + \rho (u + w) \partial_ {y _ {2}} \psi d y.$$

We now state precisely the main theoretical result of this paper.

Theorem 1 $\dots - \arg \rho _ { 0 } \in \mathrm { H } ^ { 2 } ( Y ; \mathbb { R } )$ is s.t. $( \nabla _ { y } ^ { \top } \rho _ { 0 } ) \mathbf { L n } = 0$ a.e. on ∂Y , $A _ { 0 } , B _ { 0 } \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { K \times K }$ , then the ADP ODE-PDE system (18) has a unique weak solution:

$$(A, B, \rho) (\cdot) \in \mathrm{C} ^ {0} ([ 0, T ]; \mathbb {H} ^ {1}) \text { for arbitrary but finite } T > 0. \tag {31}$$

Proof. — Outline of proof. First, we establish some preliminary results on Lipschitzianity of a number of relevant quantities, and that a sequence of approximating operators to $- \mathcal { A } ( \cdot )$ generate ω-contractive semigroups. Then, we construct sequences of approximate solutions to the ADP ODE-PDE system where we first fix the solution of the FK equation and show the weight equations have a classical solution, and then fix the weights and show the FK equation has a classical solution (in a suitable Sobolev space). This is done via semigroup methods. This procedure results in bounds for the solutions, which we use along with the Aubin-Lions-Simon compactness theorem to conclude that a limit point exists. Finally, we show this limit solves the ADP ODE-PDE system weakly, which is done by taking advantage of the preliminary results on Lipschitzianity. Some of the preliminary results include rather elementary steps, but we include any steps we consider substantive for completeness.

Step 0. Preliminary Results.
