Lemma 2-(i) ensures the satisfaction of terminal constraint on states just by construction. Refer to [56, Proposition 1] and [41, Proposition 1] for minor differences due to (1), (14) and Assumption 1. For the purpose of analysis, we define an intermediate optimization problem by replacing $x _ { t }$ in (10) by $x _ { t \vert t - 1 }$ . In particular,

$$\hat {V} _ {m} (x _ {t | t - 1}) := \min _ {(u _ {t + i | t}) _ {i = 0} ^ {N - 1}} \left\{(9) \mid x _ {t | t} = x _ {t | t - 1}, (1 1), (1 2), (1 3) \right\}. \tag {24}$$

Notice that we keep $u _ { t } ^ { a } = - K _ { t } ^ { \top } \phi _ { j } ( x _ { t } )$ fixed in both problems (14) and (24), respectively, and therefore, we can follow the following convention:

$$\hat {V} _ {m} (x _ {t | t - 1}) \leqslant c \implies x _ {t | t - 1} \in \mathcal {X} _ {c} (x _ {t} ^ {r}). \tag {25}$$

Remark 3. Notice that the constraint on the first control (11) includes $u _ { t } ^ { a }$ to make MPC aware of the adaptive action. Since $u _ { t } ^ { a } = - K _ { t } ^ { \top } \phi _ { j } ( x _ { t } )$ nonlinealry depends on $x _ { t }$ due to the nonlinear function $\phi _ { j }$ , the set-valued control move map becomes state-dependent. Our analysis is based on using the value function of MPC (14) as a candidate Lyapunov function. The presence of state-dependent constraint (11) prohibits us to prove robustness of MPC by invoking [57, propositions 7,8 or 11]. We defined an intermediate optimization problem (24) to get rid of the above difficulty. Due to the above-mentioned technical difficulty the results of [41, propositions 2 and 4] are not directly applicable here.

Important results related to tube MPC are summarized in the following Lemma. Refer to [41, Proposition 2, Proposition 4] for a detailed discussion. We provide their proofs in the appendix to highlight the adjustments and for completeness.

Lemma 3. If Assumption 1 is satisfied, then for all t for every $x _ { t } \in X _ { c } ( x _ { t } ^ { r } )$ the following hold:

(i) $\hat { V } _ { m } ( x _ { t + 1 | t } ) - V _ { m } ( x _ { t } ) \leqslant - c _ { \mathrm { s } } ( x _ { t } , u _ { t | t } ^ { \ast } ) , a n d x _ { t + 1 | t } \in \mathcal { X } _ { c } .$

(ii) $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t + 1 } \in \mathcal { X } _ { c } ( \boldsymbol { x } _ { t + 1 } ^ { r } ) + \mathbb { W } ^ { \prime } .$ .

(iii) $V _ { m } ( x _ { t + 1 } ) - \hat { V } _ { m } ( x _ { t + 1 | t } ) \leqslant c _ { 3 } \| g ( x _ { t } ) \tilde { u } _ { t } \| .$

(iv) There exists $\gamma < 1$ such that

$$V _ {m} \left(x _ {t + 1}\right) \leqslant \gamma V _ {m} \left(x _ {t}\right) + c _ {3} \| g \left(x _ {t}\right) \tilde {u} _ {t} \|.$$
