$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {J} (s, T, x _ {s}; \check {u} _ {1} (\cdot), \check {u} _ {2} (\cdot)) = \frac {1}{2} \mathbb {E} [ \langle \hat {X} (s) x _ {s}, x _ {s} \rangle ] \\ + \frac {1}{2} \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {s} ^ {T} \left\{\left| \mathbb {V} _ {2 2} (t) \left(\check {u} _ {2} ^ {1} (t) - F _ {2} (t) x _ {\check {u}} ^ {1} (t)\right) \right| ^ {2} + \left| \hat {\mathbb {V}} _ {2 2} (t) \left(\check {u} _ {2} ^ {2} (t) - \hat {F} _ {2} (t) x _ {\check {u} ^ {2}} ^ {2} (t)\right) \right| ^ {2} \right\} d t \right] \tag {112} \\ \end{array}
$$

By direct calculation one obtains from (109) and (110) that $\begin{array} { r } { \check { u } _ { 2 } ( t ) = K ( t ) x _ { \check { u } } ( t ) + W ( t ) \check { u } _ { 1 } ( t ) + ( \hat { K } ( t ) - } \end{array}$ $K ( t ) ) \mathbb { E } [ x _ { \check { u } } ( t ) ] + ( \hat { W } ( t ) - W ( t ) ) \mathbb { E } [ \check { u } ( t ) ] , t \in [ s , T ]$ . Based on this equality one obtains that:

$$\mathcal {J} (s, T, x _ {s}; \check {u} _ {1} (\cdot), \check {u} _ {2} (\cdot)) = \mathcal {J} _ {K W} ^ {\hat {K} \hat {W}} (s, T, x _ {s}; \check {u} _ {1} (\cdot)) \tag {113}$$

Employing (69), (112), (113) we deduce that $\left. \hat { X } ( s ) x _ { s } , x _ { s } \right. \leq \left. \hat { Y } _ { K W } ^ { \hat { K } \hat { W } } ( s ) x _ { s } , x _ { s } \right.$ . Hence, (107) holds because $x _ { s }$ is arbitrary in Rn. Thus the proof is completed.

Lemma 3.13 Assume that the solution X(·) of the TVP (7) is defined and satisfies the sign condition $( 1 \llcorner )$ on the interval $( \tau , T ]$ . Let $\mathcal { T } _ { \hat { X } } \subset [ 0 , \ T ]$ be the maximal interval where the solution ${ \hat { X } } ( \cdot )$ of the TVP (8) is defined. $I f \left( \Phi ( \cdot ) , \ \hat { \Phi } ( \cdot ) \right)$ are two continuous matrix values functions satisfying C2) then we have:

$$\hat {X} (s) \geq \Upsilon_ {\Phi} ^ {\tilde {\Phi}} (s) \tag {114}$$

for all $s \in \mathcal { T } _ { \hat { X } } \bigcap ( \tau , \mathcal { T } ] , \Upsilon _ { \Phi } ^ { \hat { \Phi } } ( \cdot )$ being the solution of the TVP (90).

Proof 3.14 Let $s \in \mathcal { Z } _ { \hat { X } } \cap \left( \tau , ~ T \right)$ be arbitrary but fixed. Let $\left( \zeta ^ { 1 } ( \cdot ) , \ \zeta ^ { 2 } ( \cdot ) \right)$ be the solution of the following IVP:
