# I. INTRODUCTION

M ULTI-AGENT Systems (MASs) are extensively net-worked to describe very large numbers in natural and worked to describe very large numbers in natural and engineered environments, ranging from biological, social and communication systems [1], [2], [3] to transport, power grids and robotic swarms [4], [5], [6]. The problem with their consensus, however, remains an attractive challenge in controlling multiple interacting agents within the system. Consensus can thereof be regarded as a control objective in which all the agents in a network converge to (or, agree upon) a common value. This is achieved through a given control strategy, referred to usually as a consensus algorithm. Most of the early works on this topic [7], [8], [9] were based on the leaderless consensus in multi-agent systems, whereas all participating agents had to agree with certain coordinate values as problems. Similar studies were then shifted toward a leader-follower approach, wherein a network of follower-agents has to be regulated by the leader coordinates [10], [11], [12], [13].

Inclusion of time-variant delays in any multi-agent model has become a challenge due to the limitation of axonal signal transmission and switching speeds. Being inevitable in many physical systems, a time delay, as an integral part of the convergence in consensus protocols, is therefore to be studied [14]. The stability of a single-agent system with time delays are realized [15], [16], [17], with emphasis on the effect of This work is partly financed by the Italian Ministry for Research in the framework of the 2017 Program for Research Projects of National Interest (PRIN) under Grant 2017YKXYXJ.

Milad Gholami is Department of Electrical and Mathematics, University of Siena, Siena, Italy. Email: gholami@diism.unisi.it.
