In summary, there are existing research gaps for formation tracking control for multiple AUVs, which will be addressed in this study: (i) the fixed-time convergence of the design of controllers for multiple AUV systems, (ii) the fixed-time convergence of the adaptive laws of the adaptive FLCs, (iii) the input saturation problem needs to be addressed within the design of distributed formation control of multiple AUV systems. To address the research gaps, a new fixed-time distributed formation tracking control for multiple AUV systems is proposed. The distributed fixed-time consensus formation will be derived based on a backstepping SMC method. To approximate the unknown components, an adaptive fixed-time FLC will be developed, in which the adaptive laws of FLC will be derived such that it can be convergent within a fixedtime to guarantee a global fixed-time convergence for the system. Furthermore, an auxiliary adaptive function will be introduced into the fixed-time controller to compensate for the effects of the overhead control efforts. The effectiveness of the new control algorithm will be tested on a consensus formation of four AUVs and compared with the counterpart distributed SMC based on a computer simulation. To highlight the novelties of this paper, we compare the proposed method with the existing approaches as follows:

• Unlike the existing distributed consensus formation controllers for multiple AUV systems [15], this paper develops a fixed-time distributed formation algorithm for AUVs using a backstepping SMC method to preserve the merits of Lyapunov stability of the backstepping control, high robustness of SMC and bounded convergence time

of the fixed-time control theory.

• Unlike the existing adaptive fixed-time fuzzy controllers [38], [39], which do not guarantee a fixed time convergence for the adaptive laws of FLC, this paper develops a new adaptive fixed time fuzzy law to guarantee the fixed time convergence of the adaptive weights of FLC. This ensures a global fixed time convergence of the whole collaborative multiple AUVs system.

• Unlike the existing consensus formation controllers for multiple AUVs [4], [22], [15], which do no consider the input saturation issues, this paper incorporates an adaptive auxiliary function into the fixed-time distributed consensus controller to handle the problem of saturated control efforts.
