In the first case $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \lambda _ { k } ^ { ( 1 ) } )$ , 20% of the robots are located at $x _ { k } = - 1$ and go to the origin $( u _ { k } = 0 )$ , 30% of the robots are located at $x _ { k } = - 1$ and switch position $( u _ { k } = - 1 )$ , and 50% of the robots are located at $x _ { k } = 0$ and remain there $( u _ { k } = 0$ , despite being irrelevant for the dynamics). The input is not deterministic, since not all robots located at $x _ { k } = - 1$ apply the same input. From $\lambda _ { k } ^ { ( 1 ) }$ we can also infer the k  xk = 0. In the second case (i.e., λ(2)k ), the input is deterministic: All robots located distribution of the robots: 50% of them are located at $x _ { k } = 0$ $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \lambda _ { k } ^ { ( 2 ) } )$ $x _ { k } = - 1$ and the other 50% at at $x _ { k } = - 1$ switch position, and all the robots located at $x _ { k } = 0$ stay there.

Remark 3.4. We have two comments on our modeling choice. First, since the first marginal of $\lambda _ { k }$ is $\mu _ { k }$ , the costs $\mathcal { K } [ \boldsymbol { g } _ { k } ] ( \lambda _ { k } , \rho _ { k } )$ are implicitly a function of the state, the input, and the reference trajectory. Second, in multi-agent settings, one may worry that inputs are incompatible with the fleet size. For instance, in Examplecannot apply to a fleet of two agents, since it is not possible to have 20% of t $3 . 3 , \lambda _ { k } ^ { ( 1 ) }$ at a given state and apply a given input. Nonetheless, optimal inputs never do that: After a state augmentation (i.e., with M copies of the same state, where M is the fleet size), optimal inputs are guaranteed to be deterministic and hence never “split an individual agent”.

3.2. Dynamics. We consider measure dynamics resulting from the pushforward via a function $f _ { k } : X _ { k } \times U _ { k } \to X _ { k + 1 }$ (typically, the dynamics of the single particles); $\mathrm { i . e . , } \mu _ { k + 1 } = f _ { k \# } \lambda _ { k }$ . In the special case of deterministic inputs $( \mathrm { i . e . , } \lambda _ { k } = ( \mathrm { i d } _ { X } , u _ { k } ) _ { \# } \mu _ { k }$ for some function $u _ { k } : X _ { k } \to U _ { k } )$ , the dynamics simplifies to $\mu _ { k + 1 } = f _ { k } ( \cdot , u _ { k } ( \cdot ) ) _ { \# } \bar { \mu } _ { k }$ .

Example 3.5 (Robots in a grid, continued). Consider the setting of Example 3.3, where $f _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } ) = x _ { k } u _ { k }$ . The measure dynamics are $\mu _ { k + 1 } = f _ { k \# } \lambda _ { k }$ , and the two inputs of Example 3.3 yield $\mu _ { k + 1 } ^ { ( 1 ) } = 0 . 7 \delta _ { 0 } + 0 . 3 \delta _ { 1 }$ and $\mu _ { k + 1 } ^ { ( 2 ) } = 0 . 5 \delta _ { 0 } + 0 . 5 \delta _ { 1 }$ .
