$$(\phi , - \mathcal {A} ^ {*} (t; u, w) \psi) _ {\mathcal {D} ^ {*} (Y; \mathbb {R}), \mathcal {D} (Y; \mathbb {R})} := \int_ {Y} \epsilon \phi \partial_ {y _ {2}} ^ {2} \psi + y _ {2} \phi \partial_ {y _ {1}} \psi + (u + w) \phi \partial_ {y _ {2}} \psi d y$$

for fixed $\psi \in { \mathcal { D } } ( Y ; \mathbb { R } )$ is locally Lipschitz in $X$ .

Proof. — First, recall that the finite sum of Lipschitz functions is also Lipschitz. Note that the pairing given is a sum of three terms, the first two of which are bounded and linear in ϕ and constant w.r.t. $( u , w )$ , and the final term is bilinear in $( \phi , ( u , w ) )$ . The first two terms are trivially Lipschitz in $\{ X , \| \cdot \| _ { X } \}$ . As for the last term, let

$$B [ \phi , (u, w) ] := \int_ {Y} (u + w) \phi \partial_ {y _ {2}} \psi d y. \tag {49}$$

Then, we have

$$\left. \right.\left| B \left[ \phi_ {1}, \left(u _ {1}, w _ {1}\right)\right] - B \left[ \phi_ {2}, \left(u _ {2}, w _ {2}\right)\right]\right| \leq \left| B \left[ \phi_ {1}, \left(u _ {1}, w _ {1}\right)\right] - B \left[ \phi_ {1}, \left(u _ {2}, w _ {2}\right)\right]\right| + \dots\left. \right.\left| B \left[ \phi_ {1}, \left(u _ {2}, w _ {2}\right)\right] - B \left[ \phi_ {2}, \left(u _ {2}, w _ {2}\right)\right]\right| = \dots\left. \right.\left| B \left[ \phi_ {1}, \left(u _ {1} - u _ {2}, w _ {1} - w _ {2}\right)\right]\right| + \left| B \left[ \phi_ {1} - \phi_ {2}, \left(u _ {2}, w _ {2}\right)\right]\right| \leq \dots\left( \right.\left|\left| \phi_ {1} \right|\right| _ {\mathrm{L} ^ {2} (Y; \mathbb {R})} \left. \right\rvert\left|\left(u _ {1} - u _ {2}, w _ {1} - w _ {2}\right)\right|\left. \right| _ {\mathrm{C} ^ {0} ([ 0, T ] \times Y; \mathbf {U} \times \mathbf {W})} + \dots\left.\left|\left| \phi_ {1} - \phi_ {2} \right|\right| _ {L ^ {2} (Y; \mathbb {R})} \right|\left|\left(u _ {2}, w _ {2}\right)\right| | _ {\mathrm{C} ^ {0} ([ 0, T ] \times Y; \mathbf {U} \times \mathbf {W})}\left. \right)\left|\left| \psi \right|\right| _ {\mathrm{C} ^ {1} (Y; \mathbb {R})}.$$

Now, let

$$L := \max \{\epsilon | | \psi | | _ {\mathrm{C} ^ {2} (Y; \mathbb {R})}, s _ {m a x} | | \psi | | _ {\mathrm{C} ^ {1} (Y; \mathbb {R})}, | | \psi | | _ {\mathrm{C} ^ {1} (Y; \mathbb {R})} \max \{\Re , u _ {m a x} + w _ {m a x} \} \}.$$

Then,

$$| B [ \phi_ {1}, (u _ {1}, w _ {2}) ] - B [ \phi_ {2}, (u _ {2}, w _ {2}) ] | \leq L | | (\phi_ {1}, u _ {1}, w _ {1}) - (\phi_ {2}, u _ {2}, w _ {2}) | | _ {X}$$

so $B [ \cdot , \cdot ]$ is Lipschitz in $\{ X , \| \cdot \| _ { X } \}$ .

With these preliminary results completed, we now return to the task of proving Theorem 1. We define sequences of approximate solutions $\hat { \{ ( A , B ) ^ { n } ( \cdot ) \} } _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } , ( A , B ) ^ { n } ( \cdot ) \quad : \quad [ 0 , T ] \quad \stackrel { \cdot } {  } \quad \mathbb { R } ^ { K \times K } \stackrel { \cdot \cdot } { \times } \mathbb { R } ^ { K \times K }$ , and $\{ \rho ^ { n } ( \cdot ) \} _ { n = 0 } ^ { \infty } , \rho ^ { n } : [ 0 , T ] \times \mathcal { Y }  \mathbb { R }$ . Let:

$$\rho^ {0} (t, \cdot) = \rho_ {0} \forall t \in [ 0, T ].$$
