# I. INTRODUCTION

Complex systems are common in many fields and are often represented as networks. They are essential for understanding the fundamental properties of these systems [1], [2], [3]. For instance, in the biomedical field, analysis of gene regulation and protein–protein interactions within cells [4], [5], [6], [7] provides a paradigm for discovering and interpreting, molecular pathways and disease mechanisms. In neuroscience, investigating control principles of brain networks [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13] can help elucidate the underlying mechanisms of brain function and cognition [14], as well as the origins of neurodegenerative diseases and neuropsychiatric disorders. In economics, the analysis of financial networks [15], [16], [17] facilitates risk assessment and economic trend prediction.

Network control has attracted much attention lately [18], [19], [20]. A network is considered controllable if external control signals can drive it from any initial state to any desired f inal state, with the nodes receiving control signals referred to as driver nodes [18], [21]. The set with the minimum number of driver nodes is called the Minimum Driver node Set (MDS). Liu and Barab´asi were among the first to explore the theoretical underpinnings of MDS [18], [21], which laid the foundation for subsequent studies on MDS properties and applications. Based on this, Ruths categorized driver nodes into three distinct types to elucidate network control structures and help unveil the essential roles of driver nodes and MDS compositions [22], [23]. However, the MDS in any given network is often not unique, and computing all possible MDS configurations is an NP-hard problem [24], presenting significant challenges. To address this issue, we previously proposed an efficient algorithm [25], [26] to identify all possi ble driver nodes by finding one maximum matching of a given network, avoiding the computational difficulties mentioned above. We also presented earlier a novel method [27], [28] for finding preferential matchings to derive MDS with distinct attributes, showing that reversing or removing edges can shift the network’s control modes [29], [30]. D’Souza et al. [19] comprehensively reviewed network control and discussed its inception, the latest development and future research direc tions. These previous works have set a foundation for selecting optimal MDS.
