Method of proof. We prove our main result by constructing a sequence of approximating ODE-PDE systems where the PDE involved is linear. We initialize the sequence of solutions by fixing the solution to the PDE at the initial condition as a ‘zeroth’ stage. Then, we take this ‘approximate’ solution and show the ODEs involved have a unique global classical solution. We take the solution to the ODE system, and apply it as input to the linear approximating PDEs. We show that as a result, the approximating parabolic operator we construct are generators of ω-contractive semigroups. This process of fixing solutions and solving equations is iterated. To show that the iteration converges strongly in a suitable sense, the classical Aubin-Lions-Simon [33] compactness theorem is invoked. We show the limit obtained solves the ADP ODE-PDE system we constructed uniquely in a weak sense.

We also present some numerical results.

Briefly, the numerical method we use is a first order finite volume method, similar to the one we used in [36]. We use this method as it is simple and, importantly, it preserves non-negativity of the density. There are numerous other methods which one can use to simulate evolution systems such as the one we have posed, including the finite element method, and finite difference method. The finite element method is particularly attractive as it is closely tied to the Galerkin method, which can be used to prove existence and uniqueness of solutions to evolution PDEs. So, one could use the same approximating procedure which one uses in theory to compute numerical solutions in practice.

In our final sections, we interpret the results, and in our conclusion describe possible extensions to this problem.

Novelty and Contributions. We make some extensions to the most closely related work in [10], [19], and our own work in [36]. As opposed to [10], we consider second-order dynamics, state constraints, as well as robustness. Both [10] and [19] use a finite-horizon formulation, which we also do in our previous work in [36].

[19] gives a similar mean-field game on first-order dynamics to [10] for pure AV traffic on a ring of road. Both our previous work in [36] and the work in [10] use a forward-backward iterative method to compute numerical solutions to the dynamic programming equations, but [19] uses a numerical optimization approach constructed using Newton’s method. These are all offline methods.
