Suppose there exists some $\hat { N } \geqslant N$ and ˆc such that $x _ { \hat { N } } \in \mathcal { X } _ { \hat { c } } ( 0 ) : = \{ x \mid V _ { m } ( x ) \leqslant \hat { c } \leqslant c \}$ . Since $c _ { 3 }$ is a Lipschitz constant of $V _ { m }$ on a compact set $\mathcal { X } _ { c } + \mathrm { \ddot { W } } ^ { \prime } \supset \dot { \mathcal { X } } _ { c } ( 0 ) \ \overset { \cdot } { \supset } \ \dot { \mathcal { X } } _ { \hat { c } } ( 0 )$ , there exists $\hat { c } _ { 3 }$ , which satisfies Lemma $3 \mathrm { - } ( \mathrm { i v } )$ . Similarly, let there exist $\hat { \delta } _ { g } \leqslant \delta _ { g }$ such that $\lVert g ( x ) \rVert \leqslant \hat { \delta } _ { g }$ for every $x \in \mathcal { X } _ { \hat { c } } ( 0 )$ . Since ¯c depends on c3 and $\delta _ { g } .$ , their reduction will result in shrinkage of the attractive tube $\mathcal { X } _ { \bar { c } } ( 0 )$ . Moreover, since any level set within $\mathcal { X } _ { \bar { c } } ( 0 )$ is invariant due to Proposition $1 \mathrm { - } ( \mathrm { i } )$ , a further shrinkage is possible. However, asymptotic convergence is still not guaranteed. $\begin{array} { r } { \mathrm { I f } \ \gamma ^ { 2 } < \frac { 1 } { \gamma } } \end{array}$ , then we can get a stronger result provided a certain condition in terms of $c _ { 3 }$ and $\delta _ { g }$ is satisfied, and the reconstruction error ε has small gain type property within the invariant tube. We make the following assumption:

Assumption 3. There exists $\beta > 0$ such that $\left\| \varepsilon _ { j } ( x ) \right\| \leqslant \beta \left\| x \right\| ^ { 2 }$ for all $x \in \mathcal { X } _ { \hat { c } } ( 0 )$ and $j \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ .

Generally, the norm bound on the reconstruction error is assumed to be linear in $\| x \| [ 2 9 ]$ . We assumed it to be quadtratic, otherwise the above assumption is standard in literature. We have the following result:

Theorem 1. Consider the dynamical system (1) controlled by the Deep MPC, and let assumptions 2, 1 and 3 hold. $\begin{array} { r } { I f w _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { \prime } < \frac { c _ { 1 } } { c _ { 2 } c _ { 3 } } c , \gamma ^ { 2 } < \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \end{array}$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \beta < \frac { c _ { 1 } m } { \sqrt { 2 } \sigma \hat { c } _ { 3 } \hat { \delta } _ { g } } \sqrt { ( 1 - 2 \gamma ^ { 2 } ) ( 1 - \theta ) } } \end{array}$ , then $\left\| x _ { t } \right\| \to 0 a s t \to \infty .$

Notice that the main results of tube-based MPC (Proposition 1) are valid for small disturbances. The Theorem 1 extends Proposition 1 by guaranteeing convergence of states to origin under the conditions on γ and $\beta .$ . Smaller value of $\gamma$ refers to the faster convergence of the value function of nominal MPC. Generally, reconstruction error is comparatively very small with respect to the disturbance. Therefore, the condition on $\gamma$ and $\beta$ are reasonable, and they can be verified in both theoretical and empirical manner.
