In order to ease the description of the game, we rewrite (1) and (2) according to the partition $\boldsymbol { u } = \left( \begin{array} { l l } { u _ { 1 } ^ { \top } } & { u _ { 2 } ^ { \top } } \end{array} \right) ^ { \top }$ of the input u and the partition above of the coefficients. Thus we obtain:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} d x (t) = \left\{A _ {0} (t) x (t) + \bar {A} _ {0} (t) \mathbb {E} [ x (t) ] + B _ {0 1} (t) u _ {1} (t) + \bar {B} _ {0 1} (t) \mathbb {E} [ u _ {1} (t) ] \right. \\ \left. + B _ {0 2} (t) u _ {2} (t) + \bar {B} _ {0 2} (t) \mathbb {E} [ u _ {2} (t) ] \right\} d t \\ \left. + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {r} \left\{A _ {j} (t) x (t) + \bar {A} _ {j} (t) \mathbb {E} [ x (t) ] + B _ {j 1} (t) u _ {1} (t) + \bar {B} _ {j 1} (t) \mathbb {E} [ u _ {1} (t) ] \right. \right. \\ \left. + B _ {j 2} (t) u _ {2} (t) + \bar {B} _ {j 2} (t) \mathbb {E} [ u _ {2} (t) ] \right\} d w _ {j} (t) \\ x (s) = x _ {s} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n} \end{array} \right. \tag {4}

\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {J} (s, T, x _ {s}; u _ {1} (\cdot), u _ {2} (\cdot)) = \frac {1}{2} \mathbb {E} \left\{\langle G _ {T} x (T), x (T) \rangle + \langle \bar {G} _ {T} \mathbb {E} [ x (T) ], \mathbb {E} [ x (T) ] \rangle \right. \\ + \int_ {s} ^ {T} \left\{\left( \begin{array}{c} x _ {u} (t) \\ u _ {1} (t) \\ u _ {2} (t) \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} \left( \begin{array}{c c c} M (t) & L _ {1} (t) & L _ {2} (t) \\ \star & R _ {1 1} (t) & R _ {1 2} (t) \\ \star & \star & R _ {2 2} (t) \end{array} \right) \star \right. \\ \left. + \left( \begin{array}{c} \mathbb {E} [ x _ {u} (t) ] \\ \mathbb {E} [ u _ {1} (t) ] \\ \mathbb {E} [ u _ {2} (t) ] \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \bar {M} (t) & \bar {L} _ {1} (t) & \bar {L} _ {2} (t) \\ \star & \bar {R} _ {1 1} (t) & \bar {R} _ {1 2} (t) \\ \star & \star & \bar {R} _ {2 2} (t) \end{array} \right) \star \right\} d t \Bigg \} \tag {5} \\ \end{array}
$$

As usual, the inputs $u _ { k } : [ s , T ]  \mathbb { R } ^ { m _ { k } }$ will be called strategies available for player $k , k = 1 , 2$ . These are functions with the property that $\left( \begin{array} { l l } { u _ { 1 } ^ { \top } ( \cdot ) } & { u _ { 2 } ^ { \top } ( \cdot ) } \end{array} \right) ^ { \top }$ are in a subset of $\mathcal { U } _ { \mathrm { a d } }$ . Such a subset of $\mathcal { U } _ { \mathrm { a d } }$ will be called the set of admissible strategies. In the description of a set of admissible strategies one takes into account the type of information available for player k in order to compute the value of $u _ { k } ( t )$ .
