# B. Performance metric and benchmark algorithm for comparison

The temporal subgraphs of a real network may follow vari able rates of change. These fluctuations may significantly af fect algorithm performance. To address this issue, we adopted the Jaccard index to quantify the overlap between nodes or edges in consecutive temporal subgraphs, thereby measuring their temporal consistency. In particular, we employed the Jaccard similarity coefficient [61] to quantify the node sim ilarity and structural similarity between neighboring temporal subgraphs, expressed as $\begin{array} { r } { J ( A , B ) = \frac { | A \cap B | } { | A \cup B | } } \end{array}$ where A and B are the node sets (or edge sets) of subgraphs $\mathrm { G } _ { \mathrm { i } - 1 }$ and $\mathrm { G } _ { \mathrm { i } } ,$ respectively.

To establish a sound benchmark to evaluate our AC strat egy and algorithm, we revised and enhanced an algorithm originally designed for static networks proposed by Liu et al. [18]. Specifically, we adopted the maximum matching based algorithm (MM), which has been demonstrated to be state-of-the-art in computing the MDS for static networks. The MM algorithm is applied independently to each temporal subgraph to generate an MDS sequence, serving as a baseline for comparison with the AC algorithm. Using the MM algo rithm as the comparison benchmark has several advantages. Firstly, adaptive control is a completely new problem, and there is still no suitable algorithm to solve it. Secondly, MM computes exact solutions for the MDS problem, which is critically important for dynamic network control. In contrast, many existing dynamic network control algorithms compute approximate MDS solutions, often resulting in suboptimal control performance [33], [34], [36], [35]. Furthermore, the revised MM algorithm does not rely on knowledge of network changes over time. This characteristic aligns well with the scenario we consider where knowledge of network alterations is typically unavailable. In contrast, many dynamic control algorithms require a comprehensive understanding of the entire network’s temporal dynamics, which can be a significant limitation in practice.
