3.3. Cost. We consider optimal transport discrepancies with, as transportation costs, $g _ { k } : X _ { k } \times U _ { k } \times R _ { k } \to \bar { \mathbb { R } } _ { \ge 0 }$ (stage cost) and $g _ { N } : X _ { N } \times R _ { N } \to \bar { \mathbb { R } } _ { \geq 0 }$ (terminal cost). By Remark 2.1, this modeling assumption includes expected values but not functionals such as the variance of the probability measure or the Kullback-Leibner divergence from the references $\rho _ { k } , ~ \rho _ { N }$ . Our formulation encompasses the terminal constraint $\mu _ { N } = \rho _ { N } ;$ It suffices to set $g _ { N } ( x _ { N } , r _ { N } ) = + \infty { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } x _ { N } \neq r _ { N } . { \mathrm { ~ S i m i l a r l y } } .$ statedependent input constraints $U _ { k } ( x _ { k } )$ can be encoded setting $g _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } , r _ { k } ) = + \infty$ when $u _ { k } \notin U _ { k } ( x _ { k } )$ . In view of Example 1.1, the transportation costs $g _ { k }$ and $g _ { N }$ may be interpreted as the cost incurred by a single agent.

Example 3.6 (Robots in a grid, continued). Suppose that the goal is to steer $\textstyle { \frac { M } { 2 } }$ robots to $x _ { k } = - 1$ and $\textstyle { \frac { M } { 2 } }$ to $x _ { k } = + 1$ , while minimizing the input. Then $\rho _ { N } =$ $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { 1 } { 2 } \delta _ { - 1 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 } \delta _ { + 1 } } \end{array}$ and, for some weight $\alpha > 0$ , possible costs are $g _ { N } ( x _ { N } , r _ { N } ) = | x _ { N } - r _ { N } |$ and $g _ { k } ( x _ { k } , v _ { k } , r _ { k } ) = \alpha | v _ { k } |$ . This way, the aim is to minimize the (type 1) Wasserstein distance from the reference $\rho _ { N }$ at the end of the horizon $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \mathcal { K } [ g _ { N } ] ( \mu _ { N } , \rho _ { N } ) )$ and the (weighted) input effort throughout the horizon $( \mathrm { i . e . , \mathcal { K } } [ g _ { k } ] ( \lambda _ { k } , \bar { \rho } _ { k } ) = \alpha \mathbb { E } ^ { \lambda _ { k } } \left[ | v _ { k } | \right] )$ . The weight $\alpha > 0$ arbitrates between these two objectives. The references $\rho _ { k }$ for $k \in \{ 0 , \ldots , N - 1 \}$ do not enter in the cost and are therefore irrelevant.

3.4. DPA for Problem 3.2. Problem 3.2 is a discrete-time finite-horizon optimal control problem in abstract spaces [14, 16]. It is therefore natural to deploy the DPA.

Definition $3 . 7 \ \mathrm { ( D P A ) }$ . Initialization: Let $J _ { N } ( \mu _ { N } , \rho _ { N } ) : = \mathcal { K } [ g _ { N } ] ( \mu _ { N } , \rho _ { N } )$ .

Recursion: For all $k \in \{ N - 1 , N - 2 , \ldots , 1 , 0 \}$ , compute the cost-to-go $J _ { k }$
