1. This is a min-max problem, which can be interpreted as a game between a player and the environment;   
2. The exogenous agents’ dynamics are included through the mean field measure $m ( \cdot ) \equiv m [ u ^ { * } , w ^ { * } ] ( \cdot )$ , which is the probability distribution of the agents who are observing the optimal control and worst environmental disturbance. $\mathrm { S o } .$ , the representative is playing against the mean-field;   
3. The representative is itself anonymous, so the same problem can be posed for any agent indexed by $i \in \mathbb { N } _ { 1 }$ . We have dropped the indexing since it does not actually matter.

In particular, the assumption that the representative agent is playing against the best decisions taken by the rest of the players (here, the other players are the other vehicles and the environment) is a standard assumption of game theory. See [3, 4, 6] for details. We now give the dynamic programming system which solves the mean-field game if a suitable solution exists.

One should also note that as a part of dynamic programming for the meanfield game, we realize that the distribution of the representative agent $( x _ { ( \cdot ) } , v _ { ( \cdot ) } )$ when subject to the optimal control is the same as the mean-field distribution m(·) [6]. So, we refer to either one interchangeably.

Define the pre-Hamiltonian:

$$\mathcal {H} (y, u, w, m, p) := \Lambda (y, u, w, m) + p ^ {\top} g (y, u, w), \tag {9}$$

where $g ( y , u , w ) : = ( y _ { 2 } , u + w ) ^ { \top }$ .

We now write the mean-field game system of PDEs which gives the solution of the previous robust mean-field game. Note that we replace the inf sup formulation with a min max. The respective problems turn out to be rather trivial. Indeed they are scalar problems soluble by simple applications of the extreme value theorem.

Proposition 1. — The stationary value function and and density $( \nu , P )$ , P the density of m, corresponding to the solution of the given robust mean-field

game satisfy the system of PDEs:
