This paper proposes an indirect data-driven feedback linearization approach, where the necessary transformations in canonical control form are implemented as an artificial neural network auto-encoder structure. Approximating the discrete-time system in canonical Brunovsky form, where the sampling time is defined by the recorded data set, eliminates the need for a quasi-continuous implementation. The functional approximation of the transformation leads to an indirect approach that allows offline verification of the model in combination with a controller designed for the Brunovsky system. Furthermore, a validation of the model based on newly acquired sensor data is possible at any time, which is interesting for time-varying systems. The structure of the discrete-time Brunovsky form, which is characterized by an inherent shift register chain, allows for straightforward planning and stabilization of desired trajectories. When the controller is transferred to a non-nominal system, newly collected recordings are used to adjust the neural network weights of the feedback linearization until a Brunovsky behavior is re-established.

Besides a nonlinear academic example, the proposed datadriven control strategy is validated in simulation on a pair of elastic single mast stacker cranes, which are employed in industrial environments for material handling and storage. Note that several model-based controller and observer strategies have been already developed, see, e.g., [5] and [13]. Contrary to the above references, here the linear model of the single mast stacker crane without lifting unit is considered. Nevertheless, the controller design for a series of cranes that can handle mechanical variations and disturbances while maintaining a high level of control performance without the need for manual adjustments can be challenging. The proposed strategy aims to overcome this challenge by training a control model on a nominal single-mast stacker crane and then transferring the learned control to a deviating device. Newly recorded sensor data are then used to modify the controller until similar nominal behavior is achieved.

The paper is organized as follows: In the problem statement in Section 2, the ideas of the control strategy and the data-driven framework are outlined. Section 3 addresses the assignment from a control theoretical point of view whereas Section 4 outlines the data-driven control and transfer learning setting as well as the implementation and training of the neural canonical control structures. Section 5 presents the results of the data-driven controller design method using an academic case study and an industrially motivated application on single-mast stacker cranes.
