Summary of problem. We begin our formulation of the mean-field game with the agent dynamics. In the initial problem description, we have finitely many agents. The agents are bound to a closed track of length L. The agents are subject to control input, disturbance, and Gaussian noise. A speed limit and travel direction are imposed as state constraints. Control and disturbance constraints are imposed in addition.

To deal with the state constraints, instead of imposing them as algebraic constraints to our dynamics or on the optimal control problem itself, or considering the dynamics until an exit time, we explicitly include them in the dynamics using the theory of reflected diffusions [37, 34, 25, 29] and employ the associated optimal control theory [23, 24]. The inclusion of reflecting boundary conditions in mean-field games is briefly mentioned in [21]. Reflecting boundaries are studied in McKean-Vlasov-type mean-field SDEs in [11].

We first formulate a finite-size robust stochastic differential game with discounted infinite horizon cost on the constrained-state vehicle dynamics. Then, we formally (as opposed to rigorously) pass to the analogous constrained-state robust infinite-horizon mean-field game. The infinite horizon is chosen so that the time-derivatives of the value function do not enter into the dynamic programming (DP) PDEs. This makes the approximate dynamic programming (ADP) procedure somewhat simpler.

The cost functional we choose in our game accounts for ride comfort, congestion dissipation, and a preference for the highest speed of travel. The problem is an extension of our work in [36].

We use this mean-field game system to formulate an ADP ODE-PDE system, which consists of a gradient system for the weights of the approximate value function, and a forward Kolmogorov equation. This ODE-PDE system gives an adaptive control for the traffic density.

The particular forward Kolmogorov equation we obtain is similar to the Boltzmann-Vlasov equation, which has inspired previous traffic models [30].

In the remainder of the paper, we prove weak solutions of the ADP ODE-PDE system exist and are unique.
