Connections to previous work.
The approach in the literature for distribution/fleet steering is fundamentally different from ours: It is a priori stipulated that the steering problem is an optimal transport problem from an initial distribution to a target one, without formulating an optimal control problem in probability spaces.
This way, the complexity of DPA probability spaces is bypassed, at the price, however, of potentially suboptimal solutions: There is no reason for this approach to be optimal for a corresponding control problem in the probability space.
With Theorem 4.1 and Corollary 4.2, we show that, provided the transportation cost is judiciously chosen, this approach is optimal and yields the same solution as the DPA in probability spaces.
For instance, the results in [39, §A] correspond to the optimal strategy when $g _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } , r _ { k } ) = \left\| u _ { k } \right\| ^ { 2 }$ , and terminal constraint on the final distribution (see subsection 3.3).
The results in [39] can thus be extended to more general terminal costs $( \mathrm { e .
g .
} , g _ { N } ( x _ { N } , r _ { N } ) = \left\| x _ { N } - r _ { N } \right\| ^ { 2 } )$ .
Instead, the results in [39, §B] are suboptimal in the sense of the DPA in the probability space.
By Theorem 4.1, when the stage costs are reference-dependent $( \mathrm { e .
g } , g _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } , r _ { k } ) = \left\| u _ { k } \right\| ^ { 2 } + \left\| x _ { k } - r _ { k } \right\| ^ { 2 } )$ , the cost-togo results from a multi-marginal optimal transport problem.
As such, the strategy proposed in [39] does not minimize, at every time-step k, the weighted sum of the squared Wasserstein distance from the target configuration and the input effort.
Similarly, the problem formulation in [41] can be recovered with integrator dynamics $f _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } ) = x _ { k } + u _ { k } .$ , cost $g _ { k } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } , r _ { k } ) = \left\| u _ { k } \right\| ^ { 2 }$ and terminal constraint on the final distribution (see subsection 3.3).
With a state augmentation (the input used along the trajectory, an independent integrator dynamics) and input constraints as suggested in subsection 3.3, [12, Problem 2] is a special case of our setting, with linear dynamics (see subsection 3.2), stage cost $g _ { k } \equiv 0$ , and terminal cost the squared Wasserstein distance;
i.e., $g _ { N } ( x _ { N } , r _ { N } ) = \left\| x _ { N } - r _ { N } \right\| ^ { 2 }$ .
