[18] S.
Dean, S.
Tu, N.
Matni, and B.
Recht.
Safely learning to control the constrained linear quadratic regulator.
In American Control Conference, pages 5582–5588.
IEEE, 2019.
[19] A.
D.
Bonzanini and A.
Mesbah.
Learning-based stochastic model predictive control with state-dependent uncertainty.
In Learning for Dynamics and Control, pages 571–580.
PMLR, 2020.
[20] S.
Bansal and C.
Tomlin.
Deepreach: A deep learning approach to high-dimensional reachability.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.02082, 2020.
[21] S.
S.
P.
Kumar, A.
Tulsyan, B.
Gopaluni, and P.
Loewen.
A deep learning architecture for predictive control.
IFAC-PapersOnLine, 51(18):512–517, 2018.
[22] S.
Lucia and B.
Karg.
A deep learning-based approach to robust nonlinear model predictive control.
IFAC-PapersOnLine, 51(20):511–516, 2018.
[23] X.
Zhang, M.
Bujarbaruah, and F.
Borrelli.
Near-optimal rapid MPC using neural networks: A primal-dual policy learning framework.
IEEE Trans.
on Control Systems Technology, 2020.
[24] Z.
Yan and J.
Wang.
Robust model predictive control of nonlinear systems with unmodeled dynamics and bounded uncertainties based on neural networks.
IEEE trans.
on neural networks and learning systems, 25(3):457–469, 2013.
[25] M.
Hertneck, J.
Kohler, S.
Trimpe, and F.
Allg ¨ ower.
Learning an approximate model predictive ¨ controller with guarantees.
IEEE Control Systems Letters, 2(3):543–548, 2018.
[26] T.
Zieger, A.
Savchenko, T.
Oehlschlagel, and R.
Findeisen.
Towards safe neural network¨ supported model predictive control.
In 21st IFAC world congress.
IFAC, 2019.
[27] J.
Berberich, J.
Kohler, and F.
M ¨ uller, M.
A .and Allg ¨ ower.
Data-driven model predictive ¨ control with stability and robustness guarantees.
IEEE Trans.
on Auto.
Control, 66(4):1702– 1717, 2020.
[28] N.
T.
Nguyen.
Model-reference adaptive control.
In Model-Reference Adaptive Control, pages 83–123.
Springer, 2018.
[29] T.
Hayakawa, W.
M.
Haddad, and N.
Hovakimyan.
Neural network adaptive control for a class of nonlinear uncertain dynamical systems with asymptotic stability guarantees.
IEEE Trans.
on Neural Networks, 19(1):80–89, 2008.
[30] G.
Chowdhary, H.
A.
Kingravi, J.
P.
How, and P.
A.
Vela.
Bayesian nonparametric adaptive control using gaussian processes.
IEEE trans.
on neural networks and learning systems, 26(3): 537–550, 2014.
[31] G.
Joshi and G.
Chowdhary.
