# 1. Introduction

Highway vehicular traffic control is an inherently multi-agent control problem. Optimal control methods for such systems fall victim to the curse of dimensionality as the number of agents grows.

Beginning in the 1950s, models of traffic flow were developed based on macroscopic conservation laws [22, 31]. These models are generally non-linear hyperbolic PDEs for the spatial vehicle density. Solutions to these PDEs often exhibit shockwave [14] phenomena, which correspond to formation of traffic jams.

These models are convenient in some ways. For example, boundary control of PDEs is a rich field which has its basis in control of abstract infinite dimensional systems [15, 2], and has been successfully applied to traffic using reinforcement learning [38, 5]. These are not control methods for individual vehicles, however. Rather, they specify throughput at on-ramps to a stretch of highway such that the highway does not become congested. This does not fulfill our objective which is:

Objective: Obtain a robust control for individual vehicles on a stretch of road which dissipates congestion on the entire road while preserving ride comfort and increasing vehicle speed.

To attempt to reach our objective, we apply mean-field game theory [21, 6]. Via a large population limit, mean-field games are a way to approximate a finite-size differential game with a single-agent optimal control problem involving PDEs. Mean-field games have been applied successfully to obtain individual-level controls for traffic in pedestrian and vehicular traffic [10, 36, 16, 12].

We do not address the issue of safety and collision avoidance between individual vehicles. An assured safety approach which combines a macroscopic perspective of control with the microscopic can be obtained by first calculating the mean-field control, and then correcting it at the individual vehicle level via control barrier function quadratic-programming [1], for example. To our knowledge, such a problem is open. We leave this to subsequent work of ours and others.
