The solvability conditions proposed by [23] take explicitly into account the sign constraints on the quadratic terms of the Riccati equations.
However the author succeeded only to give sufficient solvability conditions.
One of the main contributions of this paper is to propose necessary and sufficient solvability conditions.
We also adopt in this paper the uniform convexity/concavity framework making the obtained results as general as the ones obtained in [23].
By adequately defining some auxiliary performances criteria, we show that the uniform convexity/concavity of such functionals are equivalent with the solvability of the considered system of matrix Riccati-differential equations.

To summarize, we list below the main contributions of the paper:

i) We have addressed the problem of the existence of an open-loop Stackelberg equilibrium for a two persons zero-sum LQ McKean–Vlasov type differential game. We show how one can obtain a state-feedback representation of the pairs of strategies which achieve an open-loop Stackelberg equilibrium in terms of the global solutions of a system of coupled generalized coupled matrix differential Riccati-type equations (see Theorem 2.2).   
ii) In the main result of Section 3 (Theorem 3.15), we provided necessary and sufficient conditions for the global existence of the solution of the considered system of coupled Riccati equations verifying specific sign conditions. These conditions are formulated under the general uniform convexity/concavity framework.   
iii) We have shown that the class of Riccati equations considered in [23] can be viewed as a particular case of the problem addressed in this paper. As a matter of fact, by specializing the result given in Theorem 3.15 we have obtained necessary and sufficient conditions counterpart (see Theorem 3.17) of the results given by Theorem 4.2 and 4.4 from [23] where only sufficient conditions have been proposed.

This paper is organized as follows: In Section 2 we formulate and solve the game problem. In Section 3 the existence conditions of the solution of the involved Riccati equations are given. Section 4 concludes this paper.

Notations. $A ^ { \top }$ stands for the transpose of the matrix A. In block matrices, ⋆ indicates symmetric terms: $\left( \begin{array} { c c } { { A } } & { { B } } \\ { { B ^ { T } } } & { { C } } \end{array} \right) = \left( \begin{array} { c c } { { A } } & { { \star } } \\ { { B ^ { T } } } & { { C } } \end{array} \right) = \left( \begin{array} { c c } { { A } } & { { B } } \\ { { \star } } & { { C } } \end{array} \right)$  A B⋆ C . The expression MN ⋆ is equivalent to MNMT $M N M ^ { T }$ while M ⋆ is equivalent to $M M ^ { T }$ .
