# A.2 Self-supervised learning of $\phi ^ { * }$ on a secondary machine

Let $( T _ { k } ) _ { k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { + } }$ represent time instants when we begin the $k ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ training of DNN. Let $p _ { 0 }$ data samples are required for the training, which are stored in a buffer of size $p _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } > p _ { 0 }$ . We do not have access of the labeled data pairs $( x , \phi ^ { * } ( x ) )$ . Therefore, we follow an approach similar to that of [32] for the data collection and training.

We fix $T _ { 1 } \geqslant p _ { 0 }$ and for each $t \leqslant T _ { 1 }$ , the labeled pairs $\left( x _ { t } , u _ { t } ^ { a } \right)$ are stored in the buffer. Recall that $u _ { t } ^ { a } = - K _ { t } ^ { \top } \phi _ { 0 } ( x _ { t } )$ for $t \leqslant T _ { 1 } < t _ { 1 }$ , where $\phi _ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ is obtained by the random initialization of the weights of hidden layers. $\mathrm { A t } t = T _ { 1 }$ , we randomly sample $p _ { 0 }$ data pairs for the training of DNN. We fix the weights of the output layer to be $- K _ { T _ { 1 } }$ and train the network. Notice that the training of DNN does not affect the operation of system because the controlled system still employs $u _ { t } ^ { a } = - K _ { t } ^ { \top } \phi _ { 0 } ( x _ { t } )$ as the adaptive control in which only $K _ { t }$ is updated at each time instant by using the weight update law discussed in $\ S \mathbf { A } . \operatorname { A t } t = t _ { 1 }$ , we get our first trained network. For $t \in \{ t _ { 1 } , \ldots , t _ { 2 } - 1 \}$ , we employ $u _ { t } ^ { a } = - K _ { t } ^ { \top } \phi _ { 1 } ( x _ { t } )$ as an adaptive control. This process of training, exploiting and storing is repeated at each time t. For each $k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { + } , W _ { L }$ is set to be $- K _ { T _ { k } }$ in the secondary DNN and remain fixed during the training. Therefore, we are interested in finding the weights $W _ { 1 : L - 1 } : = W _ { 1 } , \dots , W _ { L - 1 }$ which minimize the following cost for a given input $x _ { t }$ and corresponding label $u _ { t } ^ { a }$ :

$$\ell \left(\left(x _ {t}, u _ {t} ^ {a}\right), W _ {1: L - 1}\right) := \left\| u _ {t} ^ {a} + K _ {T _ {k}} ^ {\top} \psi_ {L} \left[ W _ {L - 1} ^ {\top} \psi_ {L - 1} [ \dots [ \psi_ {1} (x _ {t}) ] ] \right] \right\| ^ {2}.$$

Let $\mathcal { D } _ { k } : = ( x ^ { i } , u ^ { i } ) _ { i = 1 } ^ { p _ { 0 } }$ be training data consisting of $p _ { 0 }$ data points randomly sampled from the buffer for the $k ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ training. The following loss function is considered for the training of DNN:
