# DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING IN PROBABILITY SPACES VIA OPTIMAL TRANSPORT∗

ANTONIO TERPIN†, NICOLAS LANZETTI†, AND FLORIAN DORFLER ¨

Abstract. We study discrete-time finite-horizon optimal control problems in probability spaces, whereby the state of the system is a probability measure. We show that, in many instances, the solution of dynamic programming in probability spaces results from two ingredients: (i) the solution of dynamic programming in the “ground space” (i.e., the space on which the probability measures live) and (ii) the solution of an optimal transport problem. From a multi-agent control perspective, a separation principle holds: The “low-level control of the agents of the fleet” (how does one reach the destination?) and “fleet-level control” (who goes where?) are decoupled.

Key words. Dynamic Programming, Optimal Transport, Multi-agent Systems, Distribution Steering

AMS subject classifications. 90C39, 49Q22, 93A16

1. Introduction. Many optimal control problems of stochastic or large-scale dynamical systems can be framed in the probability space, whereby the state is a probability measure. We provide three examples, starting with a pedagogical case:

Example 1.1 (Deterministic optimal control). Consider a discrete-time dynamical system with state space $X _ { k }$ , input space $U _ { k }$ , and dynamics $f _ { k } : X _ { k } \times U _ { k } \to X _ { k + 1 } .$ . The problem of steering the system from an initial state $x _ { 0 } \in X _ { 0 }$ along an $N \in \mathbb { N }$ time-steps long target trajectory $\{ r _ { k } \in X _ { k } \} _ { k = 0 } ^ { N } ~ ( \mathrm { e . g . } , r _ { 0 } = . . . = r _ { N } = 0$ for a regulation problem) while minimizing the sum of the terminal cost $g _ { N } : X _ { N } \times X _ { N } \to \bar { \mathbb { R } } _ { \ge 0 }$ and the stage costs $g _ { k } : X _ { k } \times U _ { k } \times X _ { N } \to \bar { \mathbb { R } } _ { \ge 0 }$ reads as

$$\inf _ {u _ {k}: X _ {k} \to U _ {k}} g _ {N} (x _ {N}, r _ {N}) + \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N - 1} g _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k} (x _ {k}), r _ {k}), \tag {1.1}$$
