1.2. Previous work. Most of the literature focuses on continuous time, and it is founded on [13], which relates the optimal transport problem and fluid mechanics. Through the optimal control lens, this formulation corresponds to an optimal control problem with integrator dynamics: The resulting flow is a time-dependent feedback law [28]. An attempt to introduce generic dynamical constraints can be found in [20, 21, 22], where the set of possible flows is constrained in a set of admissible ones, induced by the dynamics. Constructive results can be found in the specific setting of linear systems and Gaussian probability measures. In this case and when the control laws are affine, the space of probability measures is implicitly constrained to the space of Gaussian distributions, and closed-form solutions exist [24, 25, 26, 27]. All of these works build on traditional optimal control tools. In [17, 19, 18], instead, the authors develop a Pontryagin Maximum Principle for optimal control problems in the Wasserstein space (i.e., probability space endowed with the Wasserstein distance). Their analysis combines classical tools in optimal control theory with the “differential structure” of the Wasserstein space [5, 18, 43]. In [37], the authors study optimal transport when the transportation cost results from the cost-to-go of a Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR). This methodology implicitly assumes that, to steer a fleet of identical particles, one can compute the cost-to-go for the single particle and then “lift” the solution to the probability space via an optimal transport problem. While attractive, this approach generally yields suboptimal solutions; see section 5.
