# C. Adaptive control algorithm

We develop the AC algorithm to minimize the total ECC of controlling a dynamic network. The algorithm is tailored to ensure consistency between the MDSs of sequential temporal subgraphs. A pivotal aspect of our approach is the integration of the adaptive control metric for nodes. This metric is used to prioritize nodes in computing maximum matching, ensuring an efficient and systematic approach to managing network dynamics.

In a nutshell, the AC algorithm leverages the incumbent maximum matching $M ^ { \prime }$ from the previous graph $G ^ { \prime }$ to effi ciently derive the maximum matching M for the updated graph G. This algorithmic strategy is particularly beneficial when the graph undergoes minor and incremental changes, thereby minimizing disruption to its overall controlling structure. The algorithm focuses on the difference between $G ^ { \prime }$ and G by finding edges in $M ^ { \prime }$ that are missing in $G$ and vice versa. Starting from the existing partial matching M′, it then sys tematically searches for augmenting paths to convert G′ to G using the differential edges between $\mathbf { G ^ { \prime } }$ and G. This procedure is iteratively executed until the maximum matching for G is determined.

Throughout this maximum matching process, the adaptive control metric is instrumental in ordering the nodes to be explored. This metric provides a well-defined strategy for node prioritization. The Breadth-First Search (BFS) algorithm, adopted in this phase, employs this node ordering to explore paths that engage more stable nodes. This focused approach not only addresses specific node preferences but also diligently maintains the coherence and consistency of the matching framework, adapting to the dynamic nature of the graph. In the worst case, where the adaptive control metric becomes ineffective due to abrupt structural changes, the AC algorithm reduces to a random order matching, which is equivalent to the normal maximum matching. In such cases, the ECC produced by the AC algorithm will be very close to that of the normal maximum matching, as both approaches rely on same principles when the adaptive control metric becomes ineffective. The pseudocode of the algorithm is listed in Algorithm 1.
