1.3.
Organization.
The paper unfolds as follows.
In sections 2 and 3, we review the space of probability measures and introduce our problem setting.
We present and discuss our main result, Theorem 4.1, in section 4.
In section 5, we provide examples to ignite an intuition on our results and expose potential pitfalls.
All proofs are in section 6.
Finally, section 7 summarizes our findings and future directions.
1.4.
Notation.
We denote by $C _ { b } ( X )$ the space of continuous and bounded functions $X  \mathbb { R }$ and by $\bar { \mathbb { R } } _ { \geq 0 } = [ 0 , + \infty ]$ the set of nonnegative extended real numbers.
The identity map on X is denoted by idX, and the projection maps from $X \times Y$ onto X are denoted by projXX $\mathrm { p r o j } _ { X } ^ { X \times Y }$ .
Given the set of maps $\{ h _ { k } : X \to X _ { k } \} _ { k = i } ^ { j }$ we denote by $( h _ { i } , \ldots , h _ { j } ) : X \to X _ { i } \times \ldots \times X _ { j }$ the map $x \mapsto ( h _ { i } , \ldots , h _ { j } ) ( x ) : = ( h _ { i } ( x ) , \ldots , h _ { j } ( x ) )$ .
2.
The Space of Probability Measures.
We start with notation and preliminaries in subsection 2.1.
Then, in subsection 2.2, we review optimal transport.
2.1.
Preliminaries.
We assume all spaces to be Polish spaces and all probability measures and maps to be Borel.
We denote by ${ \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ the space of Borel probability measures on X, and we denote by $\delta _ { x }$ the Dirac’s delta at $x \in X ;
\operatorname { i .
e .
}$ , the probability measure defined for all Borel sets $B \subseteq X$ as $\delta _ { x } ( B ) = 1$ if $x \in B$ and $\delta _ { x } ( B ) = 0$ otherwise.
We denote by $\operatorname { s u p p } ( \mu )$ the support of a probability measure $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ .
The pushforward of a probability measure $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ through $T : X \to Y ,$ denoted by $T _ { \# } \mu \in \mathcal { P } ( Y )$ , is defined by $( T _ { \# } \mu ) ( A ) = \mu ( T ^ { - 1 } ( A ) )$ for all Borel sets $A \subseteq Y .$ .
For any T#µ-integrable, $\phi : Y  \mathbb { R }$ it holds $\begin{array} { r } { \int _ { Y } \phi \mathrm { d } ( T _ { \# } \mu ) = \int _ { X } \phi \circ T \mathrm { d } \mu } \end{array}$ .
