Many elegant control methods have been investigated for increasing the tracking accuracy and robustness of multi-agent systems.
Optimal controllers using distributed optimization have been developed [6].
A safe optimal controller based on control barrier function (CBF) has been proposed in [7].
Another approach based on reinforcement learning has been developed for the collaborative control of multi-agent systems [8].
Model predictive control (MPC) has been explored for multi-agent systems generally [9], [10], and for multiple AUV systems specifically [11].
Although optimal controllers and MPCs provide a good tracking performance when the full knowledge of the system can be known in advance, it is difficult to handle the disturbances and/or uncertainty components.
In order to handle disturbance/uncertainty components, robust controllers have been extensively developed [12].
Robust controllers are particularly efficient for the control system of AUVs due to their robustness against the nonlinear effects of underwater working conditions.
Due to its strong robustness against disturbances (i.e., matched disturbances), sliding mode control (SMC) techniques have been developed [14], [15].
Despite the advantages of high robustness, SMC generates high chattering, which can cause significant oscillations within the operation of mechanical systems.
To reduce the chattering for SMC, a distributed bio-inspired SMC has been proposed for multiple AUVs [16].
However, the conventional SMCs do not provide finite time/fixed time convergence for the systems.
To provide a finite time convergence, finite time consensus control methods have been developed for multi-agent systems [17], [18].
To obtain both finite time convergence and higher robustness, finite time sliding mode controllers have also been introduced [19], [20].
Finite time controllers have also been employed for single AUV system [21] and multiple AUV systems [22], [23].
In [24], a terminal SMC has been developed for the formation tracking control of multiple AUVs.
The main drawback of the finite time controllers is that the convergence time of the system is dependent on the inital states of the systems.
This issue, unfortunately, prevents the applicability of finite time controllers for many practical applications because, in practice, some initial states of some agents are unavailable or unknown.
