(iii) kcontrol input reads as $I f \gamma _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon }$ in (ii) is induced by a transport map $\lambda _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon } = ( \mathrm { i d } _ { X _ { k } } , u _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 } \circ ( \mathrm { i d } _ { X _ { k } } , T _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 } ) ) _ { \# } \mu _ { k }$ $T _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 } : X _ { k } \to R _ { N }$ . , the ε-optimal

We defer the proofs of these results to section 6.

Discussion. A few comments on our results are in order.

How does one construct optimal state-input distributions?. We start with more details on (4.2) and (4.5). For simplicity, assume that an optimal input map $\boldsymbol { u } _ { k } ^ { * }$ and an optimal transport plan $\gamma _ { k } ^ { * }$ exist (else, resort to an ε argument). Then (ii) in Theorem 4.1 and Corollary 4.2 predicate that an optimal state-input distribution $\lambda _ { k } ^ { * }$ for Problem 3.2 results from the DPA in the ground space $( \mathrm { i . e . , } u _ { k } ^ { \ast } )$ and the solution of an optimal transport problem $( \mathrm { i . e . , } \gamma _ { k } ^ { \ast } )$ :

(i) Optimal particle allocation: The transport plan $\gamma _ { k } ^ { * } \in \Gamma ( \mu _ { k } , \rho _ { k } , . . . , \rho _ { N } )$ describes the optimal allocation of the particles throughout the horizon. In discrete instances, $\gamma _ { k } ^ { * } ( x _ { k } , r _ { k } , \dots , r _ { N } )$ quantifies the share of agents with state $x _ { k }$ that will follow the reference trajectory $r _ { k } , \ldots , r _ { N }$ .   
(ii) Optimal input coupling: Accordingly, we can interpret $\lambda _ { k } ^ { * }$ as the number of particles at $x _ { k }$ that apply the optimal input $u _ { k } ^ { * } ( x _ { k } , r _ { k } , \dots , r _ { N } )$ . Intuitively, $\lambda _ { k } ^ { * }$ assigns probability mass to $( x _ { k } , u _ { k } )$ if there is a trajectory $r _ { k } , r _ { k + 1 } , \ldots , r _ { N }$ to which $x _ { k }$ has been allocated by $\gamma _ { k } ^ { * }$ , such that $\boldsymbol { u } _ { k } ^ { * }$ is the optimal input to minimize the cost along that trajectory.

Existence of optimal solutions. In turn, our results provide sufficient conditions for the existence of an optimal solution for Problem 3.2: existence of a solution for both the DPA in the ground space and the associated optimal transport problem.
