Simple calculations reveal that the hardconstrained covariance formulation in [12, Problem 1] can be reformulated via a hard terminal constraint on the final probability measure (a Gaussian probability measure with appropriate covariance).
In both cases, such specializations are possible because the authors restrict themselves to the Gaussian and linear setting.
In general, covariance constraints or penalties require further study;
see subsection 3.3.
Similarly, noisy settings do not immediately benefit from our reformulation;
see subsection 5.3.
Analogous considerations hold for [8, 9, 10, 11].

Design of transportation costs. In many disciplines, the design of transportation costs is challenging; see, e.g., [48, 53]. For instance, in [48], the underlying Riemannian metric characterizing the trajectory of single-cell RNA is retrieved in a data-driven fashion. Theorem 4.1 and Corollary 4.2 suggest an alternative approach: first, “learn” the cost-to-go for single particles and then use it as the transportation cost.

Measurability issues. In general, the cost-to-go jk fails to be Borel (see, e.g., [15, §8.2, Example 1]). Nonetheless, with our assumptions, it is lower semi-analytic [15, Corollary 8.2.1] and, thus, the integral in (4.1) is well-defined [15, §7.7]. Similarly, for any $\varepsilon > 0$ , the inputs $u _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$ may fail to be Borel measurable or $\gamma _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$ -measurable but are only universally measurable [15, Proposition 7.50]. Non-measurability may raise concerns for the pushforward operation (only defined for Borel or $\gamma _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$ -measurable maps) in (4.5). However, for any Borel measure $\gamma _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$ there exists a Borel map ˜u : $X _ { k } \times R _ { k } \times . . . \times R _ { N } \to U _ { k }$ so that $u _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 } ( x _ { k } , r _ { k } , . . . , r _ { N } )$ and $\tilde { u } ( x _ { k } , r _ { k } , \dots , r _ { N } )$ achieve the same cost in $( 4 . 3 ) ~ { \gamma _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 } } _ { - \mathrm { a . e . } [ 1 5 }$ γk , Lemma 7.27]. Therefore, we can without loss of generality assume that $u _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$ is Borel. This way, the pushforward operation in (4.5) is well-defined.

Computational aspects. We now investigate the computational aspects of our results in the context of multi-agent systems. We argue that our separation principle
