We conducted an in-depth analysis at the temporal subgraph level to investigate the efficacy of our algorithm further. We compared the ECCs of the AC and MM algorithms on temporal subgraphs (Figure 6). The results on the ER-based dynamic networks showed that AC outperformed MM for 95% of the temporal subgraphs when the average degree k was less than 4 (Figure 6A). However, as the average degree k surpassed 4, temporal subgraphs displaying equivalent performance between the two algorithms increased (yellow part in Figure 6A). The results on the SF-based dynamic networks were compatible with those on the ER networks. The AC algorithm was superior to MM in 100% of the temporal subgraphs with an average degree k below 6. As the average degree increases, the two algorithms performed similarly on more temporal subgraphs (yellow part in Figure 6B).

Notably, as network density increased, the discernible advantage of the AC algorithm relative to MM diminished. This is not indicative of AC's inadequacy for dense networks. When networks became denser, the MDS sizes decreased significantly (Figure 7). This reduction led to a constrained optimization space for the MDS within each temporal subgraph. As a result, both MM and AC algorithms may produce similar solutions. For instance, the mean $\mathrm { E C C _ { A C } / E C C _ { M M } }$ ratio of ER-based dynamic networks was 0.63 when $k { = } 2 . 0$ and elevated to 0.85 when k=8.0. We illustrate two representative extreme cases of temporal subgraphs in Figure 8, where the performance of AC was either equivalent to or worse than MM. They respectively explained the situations when the two algorithms performed equally and when MM outperformed AC. In fact, on ER-based networks, the two algorithms performed almost the same once the network reconnection ratio exceeded 0.50.
