dynamic bounds. The simulation results are depicted in Figs. 2.8-2.10, for $t \in [ 0 , 4 0 ]$ seconds. In particular, Fig. 2.8 depicts the evolution of the pose errors $e _ { s } ( t )$ (in blue), along with the respective performance functions $\rho _ { s } ( t )$ (in red), Fig. 2.9 depicts the evolution of the velocity errors $e _ { v } ( t )$ , along with the respective performance functions $\rho _ { v } ( t )$ , and Fig. 2.10 shows the resulting joint torques $\tau _ { i } ( t ) , \forall i \in \{ 1 , . . . , 4 \}$ . One can conclude from the aforementioned figures that the simulation results verify the theoretical findings, since the errors $e _ { s } ( t ) , e _ { v } ( t )$ stay confined in the performance function funnels. Moreover, the joint torques in respect the saturation values we set. For comparison purposes, we also simulate the same system without taking into account any input constraints. In order to achieve good performance in terms of overshoot, rise, and settling time, we set the control gains as $g _ { s } = 1 , g _ { v } = 2 0 0$ . The resulting pose errors are depicted in Fig. 2.8 for $t \in [ 0 , 4 0 ]$ seconds (with green) along with the performance functions (with red), and the resulting torques are depicted in Fig. 2.11 for $t \in [ 0 , 0 . 0 0 1 ]$ ] seconds. This small time interval is sufficient to observe the high-value initial peaks of the torque inputs that do not satisfy the desired constraint of $\bar { \tau } = 1 5 0 \ \mathrm { N m }$ , which can be attributed to the lack of gain calibration. Nevertheless, note also the better performance of the pose errors, in terms of overshoot, rise and settling time, as pictured in Fig. 2.8. Finally, note that any Prescribed Performance Control methodology would fail to solve Problem 2.1 with $\theta ( 0 ) = \frac { \pi } { 2 }$ or $\theta _ { d } ( t ) = \textstyle \frac { \pi } { 2 }$ for some $t \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ , in contrast to the adaptive quaternion-feedback control scheme of Section 2.2.3. The simulations were carried out in the MATLAB R2017a environment on a i7-5600 laptop computer at 2.6Hz, with 8GB of RAM.
