# Abstract

Control and planning of multi-agent systems is an active and increasingly studied topic of research, with many practical applications such as rescue missions, security, surveillance, and transportation. This thesis addresses the planning and control of multi-agent systems under temporal logic tasks. The considered systems concern complex, robotic, manipulator-endowed systems, which can coordinate in order to execute complicated tasks, including object manipulation/transportation. Motivated by real life scenarios, we take into account high-order dynamics subject to model uncertainties and unknown disturbances. Our approach is based on the integration of tools from the areas of multi-agent systems, intelligent control theory, cooperative object manipulation, discrete abstraction design of multi-agent-object systems, and formal verification.

The first part of the thesis is devoted to the design of continuous control protocols for the cooperative object manipulation/transportation by multiple robotic agents, and the relation of rigid cooperative manipulation schemes to multi-agent formation. We propose first a variety of centralized and decentralized control algorithms that do not employ force/torque information at the contact points and take into account both cases of rigid and rolling grasping points, dynamic uncertainties in the object’s and agents’ model, and potential constraint satisfaction, such as obstacle avoidance and input saturation. Next, we tackle the problem of robust formation control for a class of multi-agent systems and we analyze the relation between formation rigidity theory and rigid cooperative manipulation.
