# 2.3 Observer Design

For the linearized model (2), we design a state-disturbance observer as follows,

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {\hat {x}} (t) = A \hat {x} (t) + u (t) + L (\zeta (t) - C \hat {x} (t)) + K v (s), \\ \hat {\hat {x}} (t) = A \hat {x} (t) + u (t). \end{array} \tag {3}
\hat {d} (t) = - v _ {\mathrm{eq}} (t),$$

where $\hat { d } ( t )$ is disturbance estimation, $\hat { x } ( t ) = [ \hat { \zeta } ^ { \top } ( t ) \hat { \xi } ^ { \top } ( t ) ] ^ { \top }$ is state estimation which brings up the estimation error $e ( t ) = x ( t ) - { \hat { x } } ( t ) , e _ { \zeta } ( t ) = \zeta ( t ) - { \hat { \zeta } } ( t )$ and $e _ { \xi } ( t ) = \xi ( t ) - \hat { \xi } ( t ) , s ( t ) = H C e ( t )$ is the sliding mode variable, $H \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n } , L , K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times n }$ are constant matrices to be determined, $v ( s )$ is a switching control input that reads

$$v (s) = - \varrho (e _ {\zeta}, \hat {\xi}) \frac {s (t)}{\| s (t) \|}, \| s (t) \| \neq 0, \tag {4}$$

where $\varrho ( e _ { \zeta } , \hat { \xi } ) > 0$ is a positive definite scalar function of $e _ { \zeta } ( t )$ and $\hat { \xi } ( t )$ to be designed later, and $v _ { \mathrm { e q } } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the equivalent control of $v ( s )$ in the Filippov sense [36], which is to be discussed in Sec. 2.4. It is noticed that the observer (3) does not contain the inverse inertia matrix $\bar { \cal M } ^ { - 1 } ( q )$ . Additionally, the approximated velocity $\bar { \dot { q } } ( t )$ does not show up as a feedback, but only appear in the feedforward compensation term $u ( t )$ . As a result, $\varepsilon _ { \dot { q } } ( t )$ is not amplified in the closed-loop, but instead, attenuated by the feedback gain L in the feedforward loop. These two properties of the observer (3) reveal its advantages compared to the conventional methods.

The selection of matrix L is the main focus in this section. By calculating $( 2 ) - ( 3 )$ , we obtain the following estimation error dynamics,

$$\dot {e} (t) = A _ {L} e (t) + E d (t) - K v (s). \tag {5}$$

where $A _ { L } = A - L C$ . Assuming that $E d ( t ) - K v ( s ) \equiv 0$ , the global asymptotic stability of $( 5 )$ at zero equilibrium $e ( t ) ~ = ~ 0$ requires $A _ { L }$ to be Hurwitz. Moreover, the eigenvalues of $A _ { L }$ should also be confined to achieve fast convergence for the estimation errors. Thus, we require

$$\operatorname{Re} \left(\lambda_ {i} \left(A _ {L}\right)\right) < - \kappa , i = 1, 2, \dots , 2 n, \tag {6}$$
