# 4. Numerical simulation

In this section, we discuss and exemplify the theoretical results of our research by numerical simulations. We verify the phase portrait, influence of the adaptive controller, and the P-invariance property by using step-like responses for input $r ( t )$ and disturbance $d ( t )$ . To investigate the P-invariance property with respect to the parameters s and b, the system 4 is first brought to its equilibrium. Next, by perturbing the system with a step-like response $d ( t )$ and changes in s and b separately, we check whether it returns to the equilibrium or not.

As analyzed in Section 3.1, equilibrium point $E _ { 1 }$ is always a saddle point, and to have stability at equilibrium point $E _ { 2 }$ , the main condition is $0 < l < 1$ . Therefore, we chose initial conditions such that all solutions converge to $E _ { 2 } .$ , i.e., a stable equilibrium point.

$$b = 0. 3, d (0) = 0. 0 1, c = 2, r (0) = 1 1, l = 0. 7, s = 0. 2 5 \tag {47}$$

Hence the system 4 is:

$$\frac {d y}{d t} = 0. 3 y (t) + 0. 0 1 + s z (t) \big (7. 7 - y (t) \big), \tag {48a}\frac {d z}{d t} = - 2 z (t) (1 1 - y (t)), \tag {48b}$$

The local stability of the system can be analyzed by calculating the eigenvalues at each equilibrium point. When the real parts of the eigenvalues are negative, the equilibrium point is locally stable.

We simulated the step-like response with initial input $r ( 0 ) = 1 1$ and a single pulse with amplitude 5 from time 0 to 400. We verified the results with different parameters for s, b and c. The phase portrait for the original parameters in 47 with different values of $s , b$ and c is shown in Fig. 2.

For $s = 0 . 2 5$ , two red dots in Fig. 2a represent the equilibrium points $E _ { 1 } = ( - 0 . 0 3 3 , 0 )$ and $E _ { 2 } = ( 1 1 . 0 0 0 , 4 . 0 1 2 )$ , .with eigenvalues

$$\lambda (E _ {1}) = \{0. 3 0 0, - 2 2. 0 6 7 \}, \quad \lambda (E _ {2}) = \{- 0. 3 5 1 + 2. 5 4 9 i, - 0. 3 5 1 - 2. 5 4 9 i \}. \tag {49}$$

Since $E _ { 2 }$ is a stable equilibrium point, all trajectories in its region of attraction approach it.

If we multiply s by 6 times $( s = 1 . 5 )$ , we obtain the equilibrium points $E _ { 1 } = ( - 0 . 0 3 3 , 0 )$ and $E _ { 2 } = ( 1 1 . 0 0 0 , 0 . 6 6 9 )$ in Fig. 2b, with eigenvalues

$$\lambda (E _ {1}) = \{0. 3 0 0, - 2 2. 0 6 7 \}, \quad \lambda (E _ {2}) = \{- 0. 3 5 1 + 2. 5 4 9 i, - 0. 3 5 1 - 2. 5 4 9 i \}. \tag {50}$$

Again, since $E _ { 2 }$ is a stable equilibrium point, all trajectories in its region of attraction approach it.
