# 4.2.4 Extension to Star Worlds

Before moving to the multi-robot case, we discuss in this section how the proposed control scheme can be extended to generalized sphere worlds, a wider class of configuration spaces than the spheres worlds described in the previous section. In particular, we consider star worlds, which are configuration spaces diffeomorphic to sphere worlds. In particular, a star world is a set of the form

$$\mathcal {T} := \bar {\mathcal {W}} \backslash \bigcup_ {j \in \mathcal {J}} \bar {\mathcal {O}} _ {\mathcal {T} _ {j}},$$

where $\bar { \mathcal { W } }$ is a workspace of the form (4.3) and $\bar { O } _ { T _ { j } }$ are M disjoint star-shaped obstacles (indexed by $\mathcal { I } = \{ 1 , \dots , M \} )$ . The latter are sets characterized by the property that all rays emanating from a center point cross their boundary only once [197] (see Fig. 4.2).

One can design a diffeomorphic mapping $H : \mathcal T \to \mathcal F$ , where $\mathcal { F }$ is a sphere world of the type (4.4). More specifically, H maps the boundary of $\tau$ to the boundary of $\mathcal { F }$ .

The control scheme of the previous section is modified now to account for the transformation H as follows. The desired robot velocity is set to $v _ { \mathrm { d } } : T  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , with

$$v _ {\mathrm{d}} (x) := - J _ {H} (x) ^ {- 1} \nabla_ {H (x)} \phi (H (x)), \tag {4.23}$$

where $\begin{array} { r } { J _ { H } ( x ) : = \frac { \partial H ( x ) } { \partial x } } \end{array}$ is the nonsingular Jacobian matrix of H. Next, by letting $e _ { v } : = v - v _ { \mathrm { d } }$ , the control law is designed as u : $\mathcal { T } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n + 2 }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , with

$$u := u (x, v, \hat {m}, \hat {\alpha}) := - k _ {\phi} J _ {h} (x) ^ {\top} \nabla_ {H (x)} \phi (H (x)) + \hat {m} (\dot {v} _ {\mathrm{d}} + g) - \left(k _ {v} + \frac {3}{2} \hat {\alpha}\right) e _ {v}, \tag {4.24}$$

where mˆ and $\hat { \alpha }$ evolve according to the respective expressions in (4.13). The next theorem gives the main result of this section.
