Note that (16) is sufficient but not necessary for (15), which means that (16) is a more strict condition to determine the upper bound of $\| D U \| _ { 2 } .$ And by Parseual’s theorem, we have two identities for (16):

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \| D U _ {i} (j \omega) \| _ {2} = \| d u _ {i} (t) \| _ {2} & \text {(17a)} \\ \| U _ {i} (j \omega) \| _ {2} = \| u _ {i} (t) \| _ {2} & \text {(17b)} \end{array} \right.
$$

Finally, we can derive a conservative upper bound for the plant input disturbance from (16) and (17), i.e., $\| d u _ { i } \| _ { 2 } \leq$ $\| W _ { T , i } \| _ { 2 } \left. u _ { i } \right. _ { 2 }$ , such that the $H _ { \infty }$ -controller stabilizes the plant G. We derive the theoretical upper bound for $\left\| d u _ { i } \right\| _ { 2 }$ in both simulators as shown in the Table. I, assuming that the controller commands a step input $u _ { i } = 1$ when $t \geq 0$ .

<table><tr><td>Simulator</td><td>$ \left\|\boldsymbol{W}_{T,i}\right\|_{2}(j\omega) $</td><td>$ \left\|u_{i}\right\|_{2} $</td><td>Maximum $ \left\|du_{i}\right\|_{2} $</td><td>$ \omega $ [rad/s]</td></tr><tr><td>TurtleSim</td><td>1.84</td><td>$ \sqrt{t} $</td><td>$ 1.84\sqrt{t} $</td><td>100</td></tr><tr><td>Blimp</td><td>33.34</td><td>$ \sqrt{t} $</td><td>$ 33.34\sqrt{t} $</td><td>10</td></tr></table>

TABLE I: Maximum allowed input disturbance. Depending on the sampling frequency ω, we increase $\lVert W _ { T } \rVert _ { 2 }$ of the blimp simulator for more robustness and less of TurtleSim for more performance. Symbol t denotes the time duration the controller sending step input $u _ { i } = 1$ .

Now consider the mixed command in (1). As long as the following relation is satisfied, then the process will remain stable.

$$\left\| \left(1 - q (t)\right) \cdot \left(u _ {i} (t) - a _ {i} (t)\right) \right\| _ {2} \leq \left\| W _ {T, i} (j \omega) \right\| _ {2} \cdot \left\| u _ {i} (t) \right\| _ {2} \tag {18}$$

Intuitively, the RHS is the upper bound of the input disturbance the base control u can reject. If we choose the weighting parameter q as a constant through time, we can further reduce (18) to :

$$q \geq 1 - \frac {\left\| W _ {T , i} (j \omega) \right\| _ {2} \cdot \left\| u _ {i} (t) \right\| _ {2}}{\left\| \left(u _ {i} (t) - a _ {i} (t)\right) \right\| _ {2}} \tag {19}$$
