Remark 3.7 (Uncertain dynamics and force sensing). Note that the employed inverse dynamics controller requires knowledge of the agent and object dynamics. In case of dynamic parameter uncertainty, standard adaptive control schemes that attempt to estimate potential uncertainties in the model (see, e.g., [65] or the previous chapter) would intrinsically create internal forces, since the dynamics of the system would not be accurately compensated. The same holds for schemes that employ force/torque sensors that provide the respective measurements at the grasp points (e.g., [54, 59]) in periodic time instants. Since the interaction forces depend explicitly on the control input, such measurements will unavoidably correspond to the interaction forces of the previous time instants due to causality reasons, creating thus small disturbances in the dynamic model.

Remark 3.8 (Load-sharing). Finally, note that $G ^ { * } = M G ^ { \top } ( G M G ^ { \top } ) ^ { - 1 }$ induces an implicit and natural load-sharing scheme via the incorporation of M. More specifically, note that the force distribution to the robotic agents via $G ^ { * } h _ { O , \mathrm { d } }$ yields for each agent $\begin{array} { r } { M _ { i } J _ { o _ { i } } ( \sum _ { i \in \mathcal { N } } J _ { o _ { i } } ^ { \top } M _ { i } J _ { o _ { i } } ) ^ { - 1 } , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } } \end{array}$ . Hence, larger values of $M _ { i }$ will produce larger inputs for agent i, implying that agents with larger inertia characteristics will take on a larger share of the object load. Note that this is also a desired load-sharing scheme, since larger dynamic values usually imply more powerful robotic agents.

In case it is required to achieve a desired internal force $h _ { \mathrm { i n t , d } }$ , one can add in (3.62) a term of the form described in the next corollary.

Corollary 3.7. Let $h _ { \mathrm { i n t , d } } \in \mathrm { n u l l } ( G )$ be a desired internal force to be achieved. Then adding the extra term $u _ { \mathrm { i n t , d } } : = ( I _ { 6 N } - M G ^ { \top } ( G M G ^ { \top } ) ^ { - 1 } ) h _ { \mathrm { i n t , d } }$ in (3.62) achieves $h _ { \mathrm { i n t } } = h _ { \mathrm { i n t , d } }$ .
