# IV. STABILITY GUARANTEES

In this section, we rigorously analyze the stability properties of the learned models. We first establish the inherent stability of the constructed model $f ^ { * }$ with the feedback controller $u ^ { * }$ (Theorem IV.1). Then, we connect the inherent stability to the behavior of the true system $f$ depending on the learning performance (Theorem IV.2); see Appendix B-C for proofs.

Theorem IV.1 (Inherent Stability). Consider a closed-loop system $f _ { u } ^ { * } ,$ ∗ for a projected dynamics f∗ defined by (6) with $\hat { f }$ in (8), u∗ in (9), and V in (10). For any $r _ { 2 } \geq r _ { 1 } > 0 ,$ , let $B _ { r _ { 1 } , r _ { 2 } } : = \{ x \in \mathcal { X } : r _ { 1 } \leq \| x \| _ { 2 } \leq r _ { 2 } \}$ . Then,

$1 ) \ f _ { u ^ { * } } ^ { * }$ is exponentially stable at the origin w.r.t. $B _ { r _ { 1 } , r _ { 2 } } .$   
$2 ) \ f _ { u ^ { * } } ^ { * }$ ∗ is exponentially stable at the origin w.r.t. X if there exists $c > 0$ such that $V ( x ) \leq c \| x \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ for all $x \in \mathcal { X }$ .

CoILS inherently guarantees the exponential stability of the learned models, as proven in Theorem IV.1. Note that this property holds even for any initialization of the models. Next, we further argue about its connection to the true dynamics. We could expect this stability property to be transferred to the true dynamics when satisfactory learning performance is achieved. We elaborate on this relationship in the next theorem.

Theorem IV.2. Consider a dynamical system f in (1) and its learned model $f ^ { * }$ in (6) with ˆf in (8), u∗ in (9), and V in (10). Assume f and $f ^ { * }$ are Lipschitz continuous with Lipschitz constants $L _ { f }$ and $L _ { f ^ { * } }$ , respectively. Let δ and e denote how densely and accurately, respectively, $f ^ { * }$ is learned by defining

$$
\begin{array}{l} \delta := \sup _ {x \in \mathcal {X}} \min _ {(y, v) \in \mathcal {D}} \| (x, u ^ {*} (x)) - (y, v) \| _ {2}, \\ e := \max _ {(y, v) \in \mathcal {D}} \| f (y, v) - f ^ {*} (y, v) \| _ {2}. \tag {15} \\ \end{array}
$$

For any $r > 0 ,$ , let the neighborhood of the origin $N _ { r } : =$ $\{ x \in \mathcal { X } : \| x \| _ { 2 } < r \}$ and $\begin{array} { r } { M _ { r } : = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { x \in \mathcal { X } \setminus N _ { r } } \| \nabla V ( x ) \| _ { 2 } } \end{array}$ . Then, the closed-loop system $f _ { u ^ { * } }$ always arrives at $N _ { r } , i . e .$ , for any trajectory $x ( t )$ generated by $f _ { u ^ { * } }$ from $x ( 0 ) \in \mathcal { X } ,$ , there exists $T \geq 0$ such that $x ( T ) \in N _ { r } , i f$ δ and e are small enough such that

TABLE I HYPERPARAMETERS FOR THE EXPERIMENTS

<table><tr><td>parameter</td><td>value</td></tr><tr><td> $\alpha$ </td><td>1.0 or 5.0</td></tr><tr><td> $\beta$ </td><td> $5/u_{\text{lim}}$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\lambda$ </td><td>0.0</td></tr><tr><td> $\epsilon_{\text{pd}}$ </td><td>0.5</td></tr><tr><td> $\epsilon_{\text{proj}}$ </td><td>0.001</td></tr><tr><td> $d$ </td><td>0.005</td></tr></table>

$$(L _ {f} + L _ {f *}) \delta + e < \frac {\alpha \epsilon_ {\mathrm{pd}} r ^ {2}}{M _ {r}}. \tag {16}$$
