# Acknowledgements

First and foremost, I would like to express my gratitude to my supervisor Prof. Dimos Dimarogonas for his valuable support, guidance and encouragement; his continuous feedback and inspiration has made this thesis possible, and it has been an excellent experience to work with him. I would also like to thank my co-supervisor Prof. Danica Kragic for her great insight, knowledge and assistance, and acknowledge the Knut och Alice Wallenberg Foundation, which funded partially my work.

Special thanks go to my advisor during my stay in Houston, Prof. Lydia Kavraki. She has been very kind and supportive, always providing significant research insights and motivation. The experience I gained is invaluable and I consider it a privilege to have worked with her group.

I thank all my colleagues (current and former) at the Decision and Control Systems for creating a nice atmosphere, and for all the exciting, boring, difficult, happy, and sad moments we shared. Special thanks go to my colleagues Alex, Lars, and Wences for our joint works and their continuous assistance and support, as well as to Pedro R., Pedro P., Pian, Peter, Sebastian, Antonio, Andrea, Xiao, Wei, Fei, Maria, Luis, Pierre-Jean, Leonardo, Dionysis, Christoforos, Shahab, Dimitris, Souleimane for our exciting group meetings and to Sofie for her MITL implementations. I would especially like to thank Dimitris Boskos for discussing with me all my strange research and notation questions and teaching me how to be technically rigorous. I am also grateful to Jana for conveying her excitement for temporal logics. Big thanks go to Ziwei, Matteo, Yu, Imran, Cristina, Nicola, Francesca and Akash for our great collaboration during their master theses and for being patient with me. I would also like to thank all the professors and the administrative staff of the department. Special thanks to Silvia, Felicia, Anneli, Christer for their valuable help, and to Emmy for answering my vast amount of questions and making hence this thesis possible.
