# 5.1 Experimental Validation

We now present results of applying our Lipschitz constant computation-based technique for verification.

Simple tanh-activation model. In this case study, we consider plant and controller models with structure [4, 5, 2], and [2, 5, 2] respectively, where both models use the hyperbolic tangent activation function. In this problem we verify the STL formula shown in (18).Here, the specified set of initial states is provided as $\mathcal { T } = [ 1 , 2 ] \times [ 1 , 2 ]$ .

$$\varphi_ {1 0} = \mathbf {F} _ {[ 3, 6 ]} \left(\left[ s \in P _ {1} \right] \wedge \mathbf {F} _ {[ 9, 1 3 ]} \left[ s \in P _ {2} \right]\right). \tag {18}$$

The TNN model contains a total of 38 hidden tangent hyperbolic (+ linear) layers for encoding the trajectory and 10 hidden ReLU (+ linear) layers for√ STL2NN. We first partition I into 4 squares (see Figure 7) where $\epsilon = \sqrt { 2 } / 2$ for each set. We employ the CROWN library [45] for the pre-activation bound computation on each trajectory layer. We also utilize the approx-star technique [42] for pre-activation bound computation on the STL2NN. Then we utilize convex programming approach Trapezium− $\mathsf { - L i p { \mathrm { - } } S D P ( ) } )$ that we developed with MOSEK [2] and YALMIP [31] solvers to compute $\rho _ { 1 }$ . We also utilize STL2NN for each partition to compute the certificate $\rho _ { 2 }$ . The results are shown in Figure 7. In the first round of partitioning, the desired condition $\epsilon \leq \rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 }$ does not hold for any partition. This implies we must partition all 4 subsets (see Figure 7). In the√ next round of partitioning, $\epsilon = \sqrt { 2 } / 4$ and 8 subset from 16 are verified satisfying $( \epsilon \le \rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 } )$ . For the remaining 8 non-verified subsets we apply the third round√ of partitioning resulting in $\epsilon = \sqrt { 2 } / 8$ where all of them become verified. Figure 2 presents the flow of recursive algorithm 2 With 3 recursive calls. The verification concludes after 90 seconds with this algorithm.

Linear Time-Varying Plant. Figure 8 shows the evolution of control feedback system with the following LTV model, where,

$$
A (\tau) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & 1 \\ - 2 - s i n (\tau) & - 1 \end{array} \right], B = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array} \right], T = \frac {2 \pi}{3 0}, \mathbf {s} _ {k} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} x _ {k} \\ y _ {k} \end{array} \right]
$$
