where $\kappa \in \mathbb R ^ { + }$ is a predefined positive constant scalar, $\lambda _ { i } ( A _ { L } )$ is the i-th eigenvalue of $A _ { L }$ , and $\operatorname { R e } ( \cdot )$ denotes the real part of a complex. The condition (6) means that all the eigenvalues of $A _ { L }$ are located on the left of −κ, which ensures $e ( t )$ a convergence rate faster than $e ^ { - \kappa t }$ . Nevertheless, when the unknown input $d ( t )$ is not zero, its influence on $e ( t )$ is indicated by the following $H _ { \infty }$ criteria,

$$H _ {d} ^ {e} = \sup _ {\| d \| \neq 0} \frac {\| e (t) \| _ {2}}{\| d (t) \| _ {2}}. \tag {7}$$

To reduce the influence of $d ( t )$ , we require $H _ { d } ^ { e } < \gamma$ for a predefined constant scalar $\gamma > 0$ . Therefore, the solution of L resolving these concerns is provided by the following Theorem.

Theorem 1. If for given $\kappa , \gamma \in \mathbb { R } ^ { + }$ , there exist $P \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ and $W \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times n }$ , where P is symmetrically positive definite, such that the following LMI holds,

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} \Lambda & P E \\ E ^ {\top} P & - \gamma^ {2} I \end{array} \right] <   0, \tag {8}
$$

where $\begin{array} { r } { \Lambda = P ( \kappa I + A ) + ( \kappa I + A ) ^ { \top } P + I - W C - C ^ { \top } W ^ { \top } , } \end{array}$ , and $L = P ^ { - 1 } W$ , then for the error dynamics $( 5 ) ,$ , the following conditions are satisfied.

(a). Condition (6) holds,

(b). For any $\| d ( t ) \| \neq 0 ,$ , the $H _ { \infty }$ criteria $H _ { d } ^ { e } < \gamma$ holds.

Proof. (a). Substituting $L = P ^ { - 1 } W$ to (8), and using property of Schur complement in Lemma 2, the LMI in (8) leads to

$$
\begin{array}{l} P (\kappa I + A - L C) + (\kappa I + A - L C) ^ {\top} P \\ + I + \frac {1}{\gamma^ {2}} P E (P E) ^ {\top} <   0. \tag {9} \\ \end{array}
$$

Considering $P E ( P E ) ^ { \top } \ge 0$ , from (9), we have

$$P (\kappa I + A - L C) + (\kappa I + A - L C) ^ {\top} P < - I,$$

which indicates that $\kappa I + A - L C$ is Hurwitz and its eigenvalues satisfy Re $\left( \lambda _ { i } ( \kappa I + A - L C ) \right) < 0$ , for all $i =$ $1 , 2 , \cdots , 2 n$ . This straight-forwardly leads to (6).

(b). Let us consider the linear dynamics (2) in the frequency domain. From (9), we know

$$
\begin{array}{l} - P (j \omega I - A + L C) - (j \omega I - A + L C) ^ {\top} P + I \\ + \frac {1}{\gamma^ {2}} P E (P E) ^ {\top} <   - 2 \kappa P. \tag {10} \\ \end{array}
$$
