An important property that most related funnel-control works fail to achieve is that of asymptotic stability subject to unknown nonlinear dynamics. Traditional funnel control guarantees only confinement of the system output in a prespecified funnel, and thus the closest property to asymptotic stability that can be achieved is that of “practical stability”, where the funnel converges arbitrarily close to zero. The latter, however, might yield undesired large inputs due to the small funnel values, and can be problematic in realtime systems. On the other hand, with potential guarantees of asymptotic stability, the funnel is not needed to converge close to zero, and can be used in order to encode just transient constraints for the system. Asymptotic tracking subject to transient constraints has been considered in several works [354, 357, 358, 361]; [357, 358, 361] consider linear systems (LTI and double integrators), whereas [354] assumes known model structure, with the uncertainties being only parametric; Along with the funnel confinement objective, finite-time stability has been also considered in [362] for a Lagrangian-dynamics model. One can conclude that the aforementioned works cannot be extended in a straightforward manner to nonlinear systems where the dynamic terms have both parametric and structural uncertainties. In addition, a class of systems for which funnel control has not been taken into account in the related works is the non-smooth type, i.e., systems with discontinuous right-hand side. Such models are motivated by real-time systems, where several dynamic terms (e.g., friction) can be accurately modeled by discontinuous functions of the state.

The third part of this chapter considers the asymptotic tracking control problem subject to transient constraints imposed by a predefined funnel for a class of MIMO systems satisfying a loose set of assumptions. The control design combines adaptive and discontinuous control techniques and its region of attraction is independent of the system (unknown) dynamics, and relies on the initial funnel condition. If the latter is a design parameter, the results can be rendered global. It is worth noting that asymptotic stability has not been guaranteed in the related literature for such systems under the mild considered assumptions.
