Assumption 1: System (1) is controllable. The controllability is not lost due to sampling, i.e. the sampling time $T _ { d }$ is non-pathological in the sense of [14].

Assumption 2: The individual delays $\tau _ { k } ^ { s c } , \tau _ { k } ^ { c a }$ and $\tau _ { k } ^ { c }$ are assumed to be upper bounded (if no data is lost) by $\bar { \tau } ^ { s c }$ , τ¯ac and $\bar { \tau } ^ { c }$ , respectively. The upper bounds can be larger than $T _ { d }$ (large delay case). A specific distribution of the delays is not considered.

Assumption 3: Data loss in the network is modeled by defining the upper bound p¯ for the number of subsequent packet dropouts, i.e. ${ \begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i = k - { \bar { p } } } ^ { k } m _ { i } \leq { \bar { p } } . \operatorname { A } } \end{array} }$ specific distribution of the packet dropouts is not considered.

The discrete-time controller provides actuating signals $u _ { k , i }$ for all $i ~ = ~ 1 , 2 , \ldots , m$ input channels. For the stability analysis and the control design it is necessary to express the control signal ${ \pmb u } ^ { * } ( t )$ acting on the plant (1) for $k T _ { d } \leq$ $t < ( k + 1 ) T _ { d }$ in form of computed discrete-time control inputs $\mathbf { \Delta } \mathbf { u } _ { k }$ [5].

The delay $\tau _ { k }$ which denotes the complete time from the moment of sampling of $\scriptstyle { \mathbf { { \mathit { x } } } } _ { k }$ at $t = k T _ { d }$ at the sensor node up to the moment when the control signal computed based on $\scriptstyle { \mathbf {  { x } } } _ { k }$ is available at the actuator depends on the individual delays present in the network, the network structure and the proposed strategy. In this work we first consider static controllers. Therefore, the delay introduced by the network for the $k ^ { t h }$ data packet is given as $\tau _ { k } = \tau _ { k } ^ { s c } + \tau _ { k } ^ { c } + \tau _ { k } ^ { c a }$ , see [5], which is bounded due to Assumption 2, i.e. $\exists \bar { d } \in \mathbb { N } ^ { + }$ so that $\tau _ { k } \leq \bar { d } T _ { d }$ ∀k holds. An additional parameter combining the considered imperfections of the network can, therefore, be defined as

$$\bar {\delta} = \bar {d} + \bar {p}, \tag {2}$$
