In most of the aforementioned works in formation control, the twodimensional case with simple dynamics and point-mass agents has been dominantly considered. In real applications, however, the engineering systems have nonlinear second order dynamics and are usually subject to exogenous disturbances and modeling errors. Other important issues concern the connectivity maintenance, the collision avoidance between the agents and the transient and steady-state response of the closed loop system, which have not been taken into account in the majority of related woks. Thus, taking all the above into consideration, the design of robust distributed control schemes for the multi-agent formation control problem becomes a challenging task.

Another special instance of formation control that has practical relevance and numerous applications in robotics is that of rigid formations. Two cases of rigid formation control have been widely studied in the literature, namely distance rigidity and bearing rigidity. The classic distance rigidity theory studies the problem of under what conditions can the geometric pattern of a network be uniquely determined if the length (distance) of each edge in the multi-agent team is fixed. It is a combinatorial theory for characterizing the “stiffness” or “flexibility” of structures formed by rigid bodies connected by flexible linkages or hinges, and it has been applied extensively in distancebased formation control and network localization [145–156]. Bearing rigidity theory studies the fundamental problem of under what conditions can the geometric pattern of a multi-agent system be uniquely determined if the bearing of each edge is fixed [157], and it has been used for bearing-based control and estimation problems [158–161]. Recent works have developed bearing rigidity theory on the manifolds of SE(2) [162] and SE(3) [163]. In this chapter, we introduce the notion of distance and bearing rigidity, which studies under what conditions can the geometric pattern of a multi-agent system be uniquely determined if both the distance and the bearing of each edge is fixed. Moreover, we combine the latter with rigid cooperative manipulation, i.e., configurations where a number of robotic agents are attached to a common object by means of rigid contact points.
