As shown in the previous chapter, rigid cooperative manipulation by robotic agents (i.e., when the grasps are rigid) is an important and challenging topic, indispensable in cases of difficult maneuvers or heavy payloads. An important property in rigid cooperative manipulation systems that has been studied thoroughly in the related literature and overlooked in the previous chapter, is the regulation of internal forces. Internal forces are forces exerted by the agents at the grasping points that do not contribute to the motion of the object. While a certain amount of such forces is required in many cases (e.g., to avoid contact loss in multi-fingered manipulation), they need to be minimized in order to prevent object damage and unnecessary effort of the agents. Most works in rigid cooperative manipulation assume a certain decomposition of the interaction forces in motion-inducing and internal ones, without explicitly showing that the actual internal forces will be indeed regulated to the desired ones (e.g., [52, 54, 59]); [73, 164–166] analyze specific load decompositions based on whether they provide internal forcefree expressions, whereas [69] is concerned with the cooperative manipulation interaction dynamics. The decompositions in the aforementioned works, however, are based on the inter-agent distances and do not take into account the actual dynamics of the agents. The latter, as we show in this chapter, is tightly connected to the internal forces as well as their relation to the total force exerted by the agents at the grasping points.

This chapter deals with the following two topics:

1. Firstly, we address the distance-based formation control problem with orientation alignment for a team of rigid bodies operating in SE(3), with unknown second-order nonlinear dynamics and external disturbances. We propose a purely decentralized control protocol that guarantees distance formation, orientation alignment as well as collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance between neighboring agents and in parallel ensures the satisfaction of prescribed transient and steady state performance. The prescribed performance control framework has been incorporated in multi-agent systems in [167] and [168] for minimally rigid formations, where first order dynamics have been considered without taking into account the problem of orientation alignment.
