Early works develop control architectures where the robotic agents communicate and share information with each other, and completely decentralized schemes, where each agent uses only local information or observers, avoiding potential communication delays (see, indicatively, [42–51]). Impedance and hybrid force/position control is the most common methodology used in the related literature [49–65], where a desired impedance behavior is imposed potentially with force regulation. Most of the aforementioned works employ force/torque sensors to acquire feedback of the object-robots contact forces/torques, which however may result in a performance decline due to sensor noise or mounting difficulties. Recent technological advances allow manipulator grippers to grasp rigidly certain objects (see e.g., [66]), which can render the use of force/torque sensors unnecessary. Force/Torque sensor-free methodologies can be found in [47, 49, 57], which have inspired the dynamic modeling in this work. Moreover, [60] uses an external force estimator, without employing force sensors, [45] presents a force sensor-free control protocol with gain tuning, and [52] considers the object regulation problem without force/torque feedback. Finally, force/torque sensor-free methodologies are developed in [67], where the robot dynamics are not taken into account, and in [64], where a linearization technique is employed.

Another important characteristic is the representation of the agent and object orientation. The most commonly used tools for orientation representation consist of rotation matrices, Euler angles, and the pair angle-axis convention. Rotation matrices, however, are not commonly used in robotic manipulation tasks due to the difficulty of extracting an error vector from them. Moreover, the mapping from Euler angle/axis values to angular velocities exhibits singularities at certain points, rendering thus these representations incompetent. On the other hand, the representation using unit quaternions, which is employed in this work, constitutes a singularity-free orientation representation, without complicating the control design. In cooperative manipulation tasks, unit quaternions are employed in [52, 53, 68] as well as in [69], where the interaction dynamics of cooperative manipulation are analyzed.
