# Continuous Control Design

The first ingredient of our solution is the development of feedback control laws that establish agent transitions and object transportations as defined in Def. 5.13 and 5.16, respectively. Although the control protocols of Sections 2.2.7, 2.2.8, 4.2.5 can be applied, we focus on an alternative design that follows the concept of multi-robot navigation functions (see Appendix C). Moreover, we do not focus on the grasping/releasing actions of Def. 5.14, 5.15 and we refer to some existing methodologies that can derive the corresponding control laws (e.g., [317],[318]).

Assume that the conditions of Problem 5.4 hold for some $t _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ , i.e., all agents and objects are located in regions of interest with zero velocity. We design a control law such that a subset of agents performs a transition between two regions of interest and another subset of agents performs cooperative object transportation, according to Def. 5.13 and 5.16, respectively. Let ${ \mathcal { Z } } , { \mathcal { V } } , { \mathcal { G } } , { \mathcal { R } } \subseteq { \mathcal { N } }$ denote disjoint sets of agents corresponding to transition, transportation, grasping and releasing actions, respectively, with $| \mathcal { Z } | + | \mathcal { V } | + | \mathcal { G } | + | \mathcal { R } | \le | \mathcal { N } |$ and $\mathcal { A } _ { z } ( q _ { z } ( t _ { 0 } ) ) \subset \pi _ { k _ { z } } , \mathcal { A } _ { \nu } ( q _ { \nu } ( t _ { 0 } ) ) \subset \pi _ { k _ { \nu } } .$ , $\mathcal { A } _ { g } ( q _ { g } ( t _ { 0 } ) ) \subset \pi _ { k _ { g } } , \mathcal { A } _ { \rho } ( q _ { \rho } ( t _ { 0 } ) ) \subset \pi _ { k _ { \rho } } .$ , where $k _ { z } , k _ { \nu } , k _ { g } , k _ { \rho } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathcal { R } } , \forall z \in \mathcal { Z } , \nu \in$ $\mathcal { V } , g \in \mathcal { G } , \rho \in \mathcal { R }$ . Note that there might be idle agents in some regions, not performing any actions, i.e., the set $\mathcal { N } \backslash ( \mathcal { Z } \cup \mathcal { V } \cup \mathcal { G } \cup \mathcal { R } )$ might not be empty.
