# 5.4.3 Simulation Results

The validity of the proposed framework is verified through a simulation study in the Virtual Robot Experimentation Platform (V-REP) [180]. We consider a rectangular rigid body of dimensions $0 . 0 2 5 \times 0 . 2 \times 0 . 0 2 5 ~ \mathrm { m ^ { 3 } }$ representing the object that is rigidly grasped by two agents. Each agent $i \in \mathcal { N } = \{ 1 , 2 \}$ consists of a quadrotor base $\{ B _ { i } \}$ and a robotic arm of two revolute degrees of freedom as depicted in Fig. 5.19. We consider that the quadrotor is fully actuated, as mentioned in Section 5.4.1, and there exists an embedded algorithm that translates the generalized force of the quadrotor base to the actual motor inputs.

The initial conditions of the system are taken as $p _ { o } ( 0 ) = [ 0 , 0 , 1 . 5 ] ^ { \top } \mathbf { m }$ , $\eta _ { o } ( 0 ) \ : _ { . } = \ : [ 0 , 0 , 0 ] ^ { \top }$ rad. The workspace is partitioned into R = 16 regions, with $\hat { L } = 0 . 7 5$ m and $l _ { 0 } = 0 . 5$ m. Fig. 5.20 illustrates the aforementioned setup at $t = 0$ , from which it can be deduced that $\mathcal { A } ( q ( 0 ) ) \in \pi _ { 1 }$ . We further define the atomic propositions $\Psi = \{ { ^ { \mathrm { c } } \mathrm { g r e e n } _ { 1 } } ^ { \mathrm { , ? } } , { ^ { \mathrm { c } } \mathrm { g r e e n } _ { 2 } } ^ { \mathrm { , ? } } , { ^ { \mathrm { c } } \mathrm { r e d } ^ { \mathrm { , ? } } } , { ^ { \mathrm { c } } \mathrm { o b s } ^ { \mathrm { , ? } } } \}$ , representing goal $( ^ { \mathfrak { c } } \mathrm { g r e e n _ { 1 } } ^ { \mathfrak { N } } , ^ { \mathfrak { c } } \mathrm { g r e e n _ { 2 } } ^ { \mathfrak { N } } )$ and obstacle $( \mathrm { ^ 6 o b s ^ { 7 3 } } )$ regions with $\mathcal { L } ( \pi _ { 5 } ) = \{ { ^ { \mathrm { a } } \mathrm { g r e e n } _ { 1 } } ^ { \mathrm { , \top } } \} , \mathcal { L } ( \pi _ { 1 4 } ) = \{ { ^ { \mathrm { a } } \mathrm { g r e e n } _ { 2 } } ^ { \mathrm { , \top } } \} , \mathcal { L } ( \pi _ { 6 } ) = \mathcal { L } ( \pi _ { 1 0 } ) = \{ { ^ { \mathrm { a } } \mathrm { o b s } } ^ { \mathrm { , \top } } \}$ and $\mathcal { L } ( \pi _ { j } ) = \emptyset$ , for the remaining regions.

We consider the MITL formula

$$\Phi = (\Box_ {[ 0, \infty)} \neg \text { ``obs'' }) \land \Diamond_ {[ 0, 6 0 ]} \big (\text { ``green } _ {1} \text { '' } \land \text { ``green } _ {2} \text { '' } \big),$$

which describes the following behavior: the coupled system

1. must always avoid the obstacle regions,   
2. must visit the greens region in the first 60 seconds.

By following the procedure described in Section 5.4.2, we obtain the accepting timed run
