Note that the objective function is a convex function of $t _ { p }$ and the constraints can be expressed as linear inequalities on the problem variables. Thus, the above optimization problem is convex and can be efficiently solved using offthe-shelf software. The choice of this particular cost function is motivated by the following two observations: (i) the time assigned to a transition is an increasing function of the transition cost, and (ii) brief transition times are penalized. Furthermore, the imposed constraints guarantee the satisfaction of the formula provided that transitions are executed within the specified transition times. We also report empirical evidence from numerical simulations suggesting that reduction in control effort is achieved.

After solving the aforementioned optimization problem and obtaining the time durations $t _ { p }$ , the robot performs the first transition using the motion controller presented in section 6.2.2 where $\delta$ is taken equal to the corresponding transition time. Once the transition πpj $\pi _ { p _ { j } } \xrightarrow { t _ { j , j + 1 } } \pi _ { p _ { j + 1 } }$ tj,j+1 −−−−→ πpj+1 is completed, the corresponding transition cost $\gamma ( \pi _ { j }  \pi _ { j + 1 } )$ is updated by being set equal to the length of the integral curve of the closed-loop system for the duration of the transition. The updated value of the transition cost is in some sense more accurate than the initial estimate based on the Euclidean distance since the existence of obstacles can potentially obstruct the straight line path between two regions of interest.
