# C. TurtleSim

We sample a random position target in every new episode to test the proposed hybrid agent. The environment resets when the robot reaches the target position. The experiment terminates when the agent successfully controls the robot to the target position 100 times. The goal of each agent is to trigger the terminal condition with a minimum amount of time and energy in every episode. Table. V is the result of our experiment in TurtleSim, where the energy penalty for each control policy is defined as $E _ { \pi } = 0 . 2 5 \cdot | \bar { a } _ { m i x , v } | + 0 . 7 5$ · $\lvert \bar { a } _ { m i x , \omega } \rvert$ |, bar denotes the average over the whole trajectory. Each experiment is conducted with ten random seeds.

Note that because TurtleSim did not have any dynamics, we applied the disturbance du during training to output action to simulate wind, which is formulated as time dependant noise,

$$a _ {m i x e d, t} \leftarrow a _ {m i x e d, t} + \delta_ {t} \tag {30}\delta_ {t} = \delta_ {t - 1} + \left[ n _ {v} \quad n _ {\omega} \right] ^ {\top} \tag {31}$$

where $\delta _ { t }$ is initialized as zero and bounded in $[ - 1 , 1 ]$ , and both noises are sampled from standard Gaussian $n _ { v } , n _ { \omega } \sim$ $\mathcal { N } ( 0 , 1 )$ . This noise is amplified five times in the testing phase, increasing the bound to [−5, 5].

<table><tr><td>Controller</td><td> $q$ </td><td> $\left| {\overline{a}_{v}}\right|$ </td><td> $\left| {\overline{a}_{\omega }}\right|$ </td><td> $T$ </td><td> $E$ </td><td> ${b}_{score}$ </td></tr><tr><td>PPO</td><td>0</td><td>5.58</td><td>4.72</td><td>9916</td><td>4.93</td><td>70.63</td></tr><tr><td> ${H}_{\infty }$ -PPO</td><td>0.5</td><td>5.62</td><td>5.56</td><td>11709</td><td>5.58</td><td>66.05</td></tr><tr><td>PID-PPO</td><td>0.5</td><td>5.88</td><td>4.96</td><td>10055</td><td>5.19</td><td>69.66</td></tr><tr><td> ${H}_{\infty }$ -PPO</td><td>1</td><td>7.18</td><td>6.85</td><td>11765</td><td>6.93</td><td>61.91</td></tr><tr><td>PID-PPO</td><td>1</td><td>7.32</td><td>5.69</td><td>12281</td><td>6.10</td><td>63.65</td></tr></table>

TABLE V: Testing in TurtleSim. Each row displays the average value of 10 experiments with different seeds.
