# 3 STL Robustness as a Neural Network

In this section, we describe how the robustness of a bounded horizon STL specification ϕ with horizon = K over a trajectory of length K can be encoded using a neural network with ReLU activation functions. The first observation is that the quantitative semantics of STL described in (3) can be recursively unfolded to obtain a tree-like representation where the leaf nodes of the tree are evaluations of the linear predicates at various time instants of the trajectory and non-leaf nodes are min or max operations. The second observation is that min and max operations can be encoded using a ReLU function. We codify these observations in the following lemmas.

Lemma 1. Given $\begin{array} { r l } { x , y \in \mathbb { R } , \operatorname* { m i n } ( x , y ) = W _ { 2 } \cdot \mathbf { R e L U } ( W _ { 1 } \cdot [ x } & { y ] ^ { T } ) } \end{array}$ , where W1 and $W _ { 2 }$ are as given below. Similarly, max $( x , y ) = W _ { 1 }$ · ReLU(W3 · [x y]T ), where $W _ { 3 }$ is as given below.

$$
W _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 1 \\ - 1 & - 1 \\ 1 & - 1 \\ - 1 & 1 \end{array} \right] W _ {2} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0. 5 \\ - 0. 5 \\ - 0. 5 \\ - 0. 5 \end{array} \right] ^ {T} W _ {3} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0. 5 \\ - 0. 5 \\ 0. 5 \\ 0. 5 \end{array} \right] ^ {T} \tag {5}
$$

Proof. We only provide the proof for the min(x, y), the proof for max follows symmetrically. Recall that for $\mathbf { v } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , ReLU(v) = max(v, 0), i.e., a column vector (say r) of length m where $\mathbf { r } ( j ) = \mathrm { m a x } ( \mathbf { v } ( j ) , 0 )$ . Consider the expression $W _ { 2 } \cdot \mathbf { R e L U } ( W _ { 1 } \cdot [ x \stackrel { \cdot } { y } ] ^ { T } )$ . The inner matrix multiplication evaluates to:

$$\left[ x + y - x - y x - y - x + y \right] ^ {T}.$$

Performing ReLU on this matrix will return one of four column vectors (denoted $W ^ { \prime } )$ :

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left[ x + y 0 x - y 0 \right] ^ {T} \quad x + y \geq 0, x \geq y \\ \left[ x + y 0 0 y - x \right] ^ {T} \quad x + y \geq 0, y \geq x \\ \left[ 0 - x - y x - y 0 \right] ^ {T} x + y \leq 0, x \geq y \\ \left[ 0 - x - y   0   y - x \right] ^ {T} x + y \leq 0, y \geq x \\ \end{array}
$$
