The paper is organized as follows. The next section is dedicated to mathematical preliminaries. In Section III, we define what we call a TBLMI and we give the problem formulation. The main results are established in Section IV where we investigate the truncation of infinite-dimensional TBLMIs that preserves solution positiveness. We show how to recover the infinite-dimensional solution to a TBLMI-based convex optimization problem, to an arbitrarily small error, by solving a finite dimensional truncated problem. We illustrate the results of this paper in section V and apply the proposed procedure to design a harmonic LQR for linear time periodic systems.

Notations: The transpose of a matrix A is denoted A′ and $A ^ { * }$ denotes the complex conjugate transpose $A ^ { * } = \bar { A } ^ { \prime }$ . The n-dimensional identity matrix is denoted $I d _ { n } .$ . The infinite identity matrix is denoted I. For $m \in \mathbb { Z } ^ { + } \cup \{ \infty \}$ , the flip matrix $J _ { m }$ is the $\left( 2 m + 1 \right) \times \left( 2 m + 1 \right)$ matrix having 1 on the anti-diagonal and zeros elsewhere. $C ^ { a }$ denotes the space of absolutely continuous function, $L ^ { p } ( [ a \ b ] , \mathbb { C } ^ { n } )$ (resp. $\ell ^ { p } ( \mathbb { C } ^ { n } ) )$ denotes the Lebesgues spaces of p−integrable functions on $[ a , b ]$ with values in $\mathbb { C } ^ { n }$ (resp. p−summable sequences of $\mathbb { C } ^ { n } )$ for $1 \leq p \leq \infty . \ L _ { l o c } ^ { p }$ is the set of locally p−integrable functions. The notation $f ( t ) = g ( t )$ a.e. means almost everywhere in t or for almost every t. To simplify the notations, $L ^ { p } ( [ a , b ] )$ or $L ^ { p }$ will be often used instead of $L ^ { p } ( [ a , b ] , \mathbb { C } ^ { n } )$ .
