# 2. Mathematical model

In our study, as a starting point, we used the hormonal circuit reactions model stated in Karin et al. [1];

$$\frac {d y}{d t} = u _ {0} + u (t) - s x (t) y (t), \tag {1a}\frac {d x}{d t} = p z (t) y (t) - x (t), \tag {1b}\frac {d z}{d t} = z (t) \left(y (t) - y _ {0}\right), \tag {1c}$$

where s and $p$ are the feedback gains of $x ( t )$ and $z ( t )$ , respectively. The output variable, $y ( t ) ,$ , is a regulated variable that is able to form a feedback loop with $x ( t )$ and $z ( t )$ . The regulated variable $y ( t )$ controls the functional mass $z ( t )$ of tissue which secretes hormone $x ( t )$ in this circuit. The aim is to first simplify the model 1, containing Eqs. 1a-1c, then control the system with adaptive proportional-integral feedback so that it has P-invariance property. We also compared the differences between DC and P-invariance property.

We simplified the model 1 as,

$$\frac {d y}{d t} = u _ {0} + u (t) - s z (t) y (t), \tag {2a}\frac {d z}{d t} = z (t) \left(y (t) - y _ {0}\right), \tag {2b}$$

where $z ( t )$ is the feedback state, and $y ( t )$ is the output of the system. Our expectation is that the positive constant s has the DC property, meaning that the output $y ( t )$ is invariant to the change of the parameter s. Hence we introduce $\tilde { z } ( t ) = s z ( t )$ and substitute $z ( t )$ in Eq. 2a and Eq. 2b with ˜z(t) resulting in

$$\frac {d y}{d t} = u _ {0} + u (t) - \tilde {z} (t) y (t), \tag {3a}\frac {d \tilde {z}}{d t} = \tilde {z} (t) (y (t) - y _ {0}). \tag {3b}$$

The above Equations show that the output response $y ( t )$ remains the same when the value of s changes.

By extending our simplified model with a DC property in parameter s, we created an adaptive proportional-integral feedback model

$$\frac {d y}{d t} = b y (t) + d (t) + s z (t) \bigl (l r (t) - y (t) \bigr), \tag {4a}\frac {d z}{d t} = - c z (t) \big (r (t) - y (t) \big). \tag {4b}$$
