260   
5.18 Top view of a transition between two adjacent regions $\pi _ { j }$ and $\pi _ { j ^ { \prime } }$ .
Since $p _ { o } \in B ( p _ { j , j ^ { \prime } } ( t ) , l _ { 0 } )$ , we conclude that $S _ { q } \subset B ( p _ { o } , \hat { L } ) \subset$ $B ( p _ { j , j ^ { \prime } } ( t ) , l _ { 0 } + \hat { L } ) \subset \pi _ { j } \cup \pi _ { j ^ { \prime } }$ .
.
.
263   
5.19 The aerial robots employed in the simulation rigidly grasping an object.
.
.
267

5.20 Illustration of the initial workspace and pose of the system objectagents in the V-REP environment (a) and in top view (b). The red cells imply obstacle regions whereas the green cells are the goal ones. . 268

5.21 (a): The overall desired object trajectory (with red), the actual object trajectory (with black), the domain specified by $B ( p _ { r _ { j } , r _ { j ^ { \prime } } } ( t ) , l _ { 0 } ) , \forall j \in \{ 1 , \dots , 1 0 \}$ (with green), and the domain specified by $B ( p _ { o } ( t ) , \hat { L } )$ (with blue), for $t \in [ 0 , 6 0 ] \ \mathrm { s . } \ \mathrm { ( b ) , \ ( c ) }$ : Illustration of the system at the final region at t = 60s in the V-REP environment along with the ball $B ( p _ { o } ( 6 0 ) , \hat { L } )$ . Since $p _ { o } \in \mathcal { B } ( p _ { r _ { j } , r _ { i ^ { \prime } } } ( t ) , l _ { 0 } )$ , the desired timed run is successfully executed. . . . 270

5.22 The pose errors $e _ { s } ( t )$ (with blue) along with the performance functions $\rho _ { s } ( t )$ (with red). . 271

5.23 The velocity errors $e _ { v } ( t )$ (with blue) along with the performance functions $\rho _ { v } ( t )$ (with red). . 272

5.24 The resulting control inputs $\tau _ { i } = [ f _ { B _ { i } } ^ { \top } , \mu _ { B _ { i } } ^ { \top } , \tau _ { \alpha _ { i , 1 } } , \tau _ { \alpha _ { i , 2 } } ]$ for $i = 1$ and $i = 2 ; f _ { B _ { i } } , \mu _ { B _ { i } } , \tau _ { \alpha _ { i } }$ are the quadrotor base forces and torques and the manipulator torque commands, respectively. . . . . . . . 273

5.25 The initial workspace of the second simulation example, consisting of 3 agents and 2 objects. The agents and the objects are indicated via their corresponding radii. . 287

5.26 The transition $\pi _ { s , 1 }  _ { s } \pi _ { s , 2 } ( \mathrm { a } )$ , that corresponds to the navigation of the agents $\pi _ { 1 }  _ { 1 } \pi _ { 2 } , \pi _ { 3 }  _ { 2 } \pi _ { 1 } , \pi _ { 4 }  _ { 3 } \pi _ { 1 }$ . . 290

5.27 The transition $\pi _ { s , 3 }  _ { s } \pi _ { s , 4 }$ (b), that corresponds to the transportation $\pi _ { 1 } \stackrel { T } { \longrightarrow } \{ 2 , 3 \} \ \pi _ { 3 } .$ . . . 291
