Furthermore, most works in the related literature consider temporal logicbased motion planning for fully actuated, autonomous agents. Consider, however, cases where some unactuated objects must undergo a series of processes in a workspace with autonomous agents (e.g., car factories). In such cases, the agents, except for satisfying their own motion specifications, are also responsible for coordinating with each other in order to transport the objects around the workspace. When the unactuated objects’ specifications are expressed using temporal logics, then the abstraction of the agents’ behavior becomes much more complex, since it has to take into account the objects’ goals. More specifically, we are here interested in complex tasks, possibly including time, such as “never take the object to dangerous regions” or “keep moving the object from region A to B within a predefined time interval” which must be executed via the control actions of the robotic agents. Time constraints can be incorporated in the motion planning temporal logicbased problem via specific logics, such as Metric and Metric Interval Temporal Logic (MTL, MITL) [303–305], as well as Time Window Temporal Logic (TWTL), or Signal Temporal Logic (STL). Such languages have been for multi-agent motion planning in several works (e.g., [272, 306–308]).

This chapter addresses the motion planning problem of multi-agent systems as well multi-agent-object systems subject to complex tasks, expressed as temporal logic specifications. Firstly, we develop decentralized control protocols for the navigation of a multi-robot team among predefined regions or interest in the workspace, while taking into collision and/or connectivity properties. We consider separately the cases of (i) aerial vehicles, and (ii) mobile robotic manipulators. This allows us to abstract the continuous multiagent dynamics as discrete transition systems (abstractions), which then can be used to obtain a path that satisfies the given local LTL specifications, by employing formal method-based methodologies.
