Table 2: Verifying ϕ8 against NNCS in Eq. (16) utilizing exact-star reachability on TNN. Initial state set $\mathcal { T } = \{ ( x , y ) | x \in [ - 5 0 , - 4 0 ]$ , $y \in [ 8 5 , 9 5 ] \}$ . The trajectory encoding has 180 layers and STL2NN has 8 layers. No parallel computing is utilized.

Given the certificates $\rho _ { 1 } > L _ { l o c }$ and $\rho _ { 2 } = \operatorname* { m i n } _ { x \in V ( [ \ell , u ] ) } f ( x )$ ,

$$\| u - \ell \| _ {2} < \frac {\rho_ {2}}{\rho_ {1}} \Rightarrow \forall x \in [ \ell , u ]: f (x) > 0$$

Proof. Consider $x \in [ \ell , u ]$ and $x ^ { * } \in V ( [ \ell , u ] ) , \ f ( x ^ { * } ) = \rho _ { 2 }$ , this implies, $\parallel x ^ { * } -$ $x \| _ { 2 } \leq \| u - \ell \| _ { 2 }$ . We know $\rho _ { 1 }$ is an upper bound for the local Lipschitz constant $L _ { l o c } .$ therefore,

$$\| \rho_ {2} - f (x) \| _ {2} \leq \rho_ {1} \| x ^ {*} - x \| _ {2} \leq \rho_ {1} \| u - \ell \| _ {2} \implies \| u - \ell \| _ {2} \geq \frac {\| \rho_ {2} - f (x) \| _ {2}}{\rho_ {1}}$$

We will prove by contradiction that $f ( x ) > 0$ . Assume $f ( x ) \leq 0$ . Since $\rho _ { 2 } > 0 ,$ we can conclude $\| u - \ell \| _ { 2 } \geq \rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 }$ which contradicts our assumption. 

The certificate $\rho _ { 1 } ,$ , is an upper bound for the local Lipschitz constant of $\mathcal { R } _ { \varphi } ( \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } )$ with respect to the initial state, $\mathbf { s } _ { 0 } \in \mathcal { Z }$ . If a bounded certificate $\rho _ { 1 }$ is accessible then we can utilize Theorem 3 for a sound and complete verification of controllers. Based on Theorem 3 we are required to select an $\epsilon > 0$ to build an -net over the set of initial states. For every single hypercube in the -net we compute $\rho _ { 2 }$ and check whether $\epsilon < \rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 }$ . In case this condition doesn’t hold we create a finer grid on the mentioned hypercube. We terminate the process, return the counter example and reject the controller if we face $\rho _ { 2 } < 0$ . Otherwise, we continue until $\epsilon < \rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 }$ for every single hypercube and verify the controller.
