We also let $\pi _ { \mathcal { W } } : = \mathcal { F } \backslash ( \cup _ { k \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathcal { R } } } \pi _ { k } )$ be the subset of the free space outside the regions of interest. We define thus the set $\widetilde \Pi : = \{ \pi _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathcal K _ { \mathcal R } } \cup \{ \pi _ { \mathcal W } \}$ as well as the corresponding labeling function as $\widetilde { \mathcal { L } } : \widetilde { \Pi } \overset { \cdot } {  } 2 ^ { \overset { \cdot } { \Psi } }$ , with $\mathcal { L } ( c _ { \pi _ { k } } ) = \{ p \} \Leftrightarrow$ $\widetilde { \mathcal { L } } ( \pi _ { k } ) = \{ p \} , \forall k \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathcal { R } }$ , and $\widetilde { \mathcal { L } } ( \pi _ { \mathcal { W } } ) = \emptyset$ . The agent is assumed to be in a region $\pi _ { k } , k \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathcal { R } }$ , in $\pi _ { \mathcal { W } }$ , simply when $x \in \pi _ { k }$ and $x \in \pi _ { \mathcal { W } }$ , respectively. We assume that, for all $k \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathcal { R } }$ , the location of the points $c _ { \pi _ { k } }$ as well as the radii $r _ { \pi _ { k } }$ are known.

We make the following standard assumptions [197] regarding the geometry of the workspace and the regions of interest.

Assumption 6.1. The collection of sets comprised of all obstacles and regions of interest is pairwise disjoint.

The aforementioned assumption simply states that the obstacles/regions of interest are sufficiently away from each other as well as the workspace boundary.

As already mentioned, we are interested in defining timed temporal formulas over the atomic propositions Ψ, and hence, over the regions of interest Π of $\mathcal { F }$ . To that end, we need to discretize the system using a finite set of states. We will achieve that by guaranteeing timed transitions between the regions of interest in Π and by building a well-defined timed transition system among them. We first need the following definition regarding the transitions of the agent.
