# 5.3.3 Simulation Results

To demonstrate the validity of the proposed methodology, we consider the simplified example of three agents in a workspace with $r _ { 0 } ~ = ~ 1$ 12m and three regions of interest, with $r _ { \pi _ { k } } = 4 \mathrm { m } , \forall k \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \}$ .
Each agent consists of a mobile base and a rigid link connected with a rotational joint, with ${ { \bar { d } } _ { B _ { i } } } = { 1 \mathrm { { m } } , \forall i } \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \}$ .
We also choose $p _ { 1 } = [ - 5 , - 5 ] ^ { \top } \mathbf { m }$ , $p _ { 2 } = [ 6 , - 4 ] ^ { \top } \mathrm { m } , p _ { 3 } = [ - 3 , 6 ] ^ { \top } \mathrm { m }$ .
The initial base positions are taken as $p _ { B _ { 1 } } = [ - 3 , - 4 ] ^ { \top } \mathrm { m } , p _ { B _ { 2 } } = [ 3 , - 4 ] ^ { \top } \mathrm { m } , p _ { B _ { 3 } } = [ - 4 , - 5 ] ^ { \top } \mathrm { m }$ , which imply that $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 } ( q _ { 1 } ( 0 ) ) , \mathcal { A } _ { 3 } ( q _ { 3 } ( 0 ) ) \in \pi _ { 1 }$ and $\mathcal { A } _ { 2 } ( q _ { 2 } ( 0 ) ) \in \pi _ { 2 }$ (see Fig.
5.12(a).
The control inputs for the agents are the 2D force acting on the mobile base, and the joint torque of the link.
We also consider a sensing radius of $d _ { \mathrm { c o n } _ { i } } = 8 \mathrm { m }$ and the subsets of initial neighbors as $\widetilde { \mathcal { N } } _ { 1 } = \{ 2 \} , \widetilde { \mathcal { N } } _ { 2 } = \{ 1 , 3 \}$ , and $\widetilde { \mathcal { N } } _ { 3 } = \{ 2 \}$ , i.e., agent 1 has to stay connected with agent 2, agent 2 has to stay connected with agents 1 and 3 and agent 3 has to stay connected with agent 2.
The agents are required to perform two transitions.
Regarding the first transition, we choose $\pi _ { k _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } } = \pi _ { 2 }$ for agent 1, $\pi _ { k _ { 2 } ^ { \prime } } = \pi _ { 1 }$ for agent 2, and $\pi _ { k _ { 3 } ^ { \prime } } = \pi _ { 3 }$ , for agent 3.
Regarding the second transition, we choose $\pi _ { k _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } } = \pi _ { 1 } , \pi _ { k _ { 2 } ^ { \prime } } = \pi _ { 2 }$ , and $\pi _ { k _ { 3 } ^ { \prime } } = \pi _ { 2 }$ .
The control parameters and gains are chosen as $k _ { i } = \mathsf { \bar { 5 } } , k _ { v _ { i } } = 1 0$ , and $k _ { \alpha _ { i } } = 0 .
0 1 , \forall i \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \}$ .
We employ the potential field from [309].
The simulation results are depicted in Fig.
5.12-5.15.
In particular, Fig.
5.12(b) and 5.12(c) illustrate the two consecutive transitions of the agents.
Fig.
5.13 depicts the obstacle functions $\beta _ { i }$ which are strictly positive, $\forall i \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \}$ .
Finally, the control inputs are given in Fig.
5.14 and the parameter errors α are shown in Fig.
5.15, which indicates their boundedness.
