# Chapter 6

This chapter addresses some challenging extensions for single-agent setups. Firstly, we consider the problem of motion planning under timed temporal tasks for a mobile robot in an obstacle-cluttered environment. We use previous results in collision-free timed navigation and develop a novel timed automata-based reconfiguration algorithm that achieves the satisfaction of the task in an asymptotically energy-optimal way. Secondly, we consider the motion planning problem for complex high-dimensional systems (e.g., robotic manipulators) with uncertain dynamics in obstacle-cluttered environments. We integrate in an innovative way sampling-based motion planning algorithms and adaptive control to provide a two layer framework that guarantees the safe navigation of the robot to its goal, while compensating for its uncertain dynamics. Finally, we consider the tracking problem for a class of uncertain nonlinear systems under funnel constraints. We develop a novel adaptive control protocol that achieves asymptotic tracking while complying to the funnel specifications and without using any model information. These results are based on [31–34]:

• C. K. Verginis, K. Vrohidis, C. P. Bechlioulis, K. J. Kyriakopoulos, and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Reconfigurable Motion Planning and Control in Obstacle Cluttered Environments under Timed Temporal Tasks”, IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 951-957, Montreal, Canada, 2019.   
• C. K. Verginis, D. V. Dimarogonas, and L. E. Kavraki, “Samplingbased Motion Planning for Uncertain High-dimensional Systems via Adaptive Control”, submitted to the Workshop on the Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics (WAFR), Oulu, Finland, 2020.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Asymptotic Stability of Uncertain Lagrangian Systems with Prescribed Transient Response”, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pp. 7037-7042, Nice, France, 2019.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Asymptotic Tracking of Second-order Nonsmooth Feedback Stabilizable Unknown Systems with Prescribed Transient Response”, under Review.

Finally, in Chapter 7, conclusions of this thesis as well as future research directions are discussed.
