91   
2.22 The control inputs of agent 3 with $- 1 0 \le u _ { 3 , j } ( t ) \le 1 0 , \forall j \in$ $\{ 1 , \ldots , 4 \}$ .
.
.
.
91   
2.23 A robotic agent in contact with a rigid object via a rolling contact.
92   
2.24 Initial configuration of the system that consists of three mobile manipulators and a rigid object.
.
.
104   
2.25 The evolution of the position error, $e _ { p _ { o } } ( t ) , \forall t \in [ 0 , 5 0 ]$ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
104   
2.26 The evolution of $e _ { \varphi } ( t ) , e _ { \epsilon } ( t ) , \forall t \in [ 0 , 5 0 ]$ .
.
.
.
.
.
105

2.27 The evolution of $\hat { \vartheta } _ { \mathcal { R } _ { o } } ( t ) , \hat { \vartheta } _ { \mathcal { R } } ( t ) , \forall t \in [ 0 , 5 0 ]$ . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

2.28 The required friction to prevent slip for the three agents. The black dashed line represents $\mu _ { f } = 0 . 9$ . . 105

2.29 The resulting inputs $\tau ( t )$ of the agents, $\forall t \in [ 0 , 5 0 ]$ . . . . . . . . . 106

3.1 Illustration of two agents i, $j \in \mathcal N$ in the workspace; $\mathcal { F } _ { o }$ is the inertial frame, $\mathcal { F } _ { i } , \mathcal { F } _ { j }$ are the frames attached to the agents’ center of mass, $p _ { i } , p _ { j } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ are the positions of the center of mass with respect to $\mathcal { F } _ { o } ; r _ { i } , r _ { j }$ are the radii of the agents and $\varsigma _ { i } > \varsigma _ { j }$ are their sensing ranges. . . . 122

3.2 The distance error signal of the edge (1, 2). . . . . . . . . . . . . 140

3.3 The distance error signal of the edge (2, 3). . . . . . . . . . . . . 141

3.4 The distance error signal of the edge (2, 4). . . . . . . 141

3.5 The orientation error signal of the edge (1, 2). . . . . . . . . . 142

3.6 The orientation error signal of the edge (2, 3). . . . . . . . . . . . 142

3.7 The orientation error signal of the edge (2, 4). . . . . . . . . . 143

3.8 The distance between the agents. . . . . . . . 143

3.9 The control input signals of agent 1. . . . . 144

3.10 The control input signals of agent 2. . . . . . . 144

3.11 The control input signals of agent 3. . . . . . . 145

3.12 The control input signals of agent 4. . . . . 145

3.13 Illustration of bearing rigidity. The networks in (a) are not bearing rigid because the same inter-neighbor bearings may lead to different geometric patterns of the networks, for example, a square on the left and a rectangle on the right. The networks in (b) are bearing rigid because the same inter-neighbor bearings imply the same geometric pattern though the networks may differ in terms of translation and scale. . . . . 147

3.14 Two agents rigidly grasping an object in a 1D scenario. . . . . . 156
