# Cooperative Object Manipulation

As mentioned in the previous chapter, cooperative manipulation of objects by autonomous robotic agents is of paramount importance in creating discrete representations of multi-object-robot systems as well as autonomizing item transportation tasks.

This chapter addresses the problem of cooperative manipulation of a single object by multiple robotic agents. We consider first the case where the agents grasp an object by means of rigid contacts, and we present four novel control methodologies for the trajectory tracking by the object’s center of mass, without the need for force/torque feedback at the grasping points. Firstly, we design an adaptive control protocol which employs quaternion-based feedback for the object orientation to avoid potential representation singularities. Secondly, we propose a control protocol that guarantees predefined transient and steady-state performance for the object trajectory. Both methodologies are decentralized, since the agents calculate their own signals without communicating with each other, as well as robust to external disturbances and model uncertainties. Load sharing coefficients are also introduced to account for potential differences in the agents’ power capabilities. Thirdly, we turn to optimization techniques and use Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) to guarantee convergence of the object’s center of mass to a fixed pose, both in a centralized and a communicationbased decentralized framework. These approaches also guarantee collision avoidance properties among the robotic agents and potential workspace obstacles as well as avoidance of kinematic/representation singularities.
