The resulting transition system consists of 560 reachable states and 7680 transitions and it was created in 3.19 sec. The B¨uchi automaton $B \mathcal { A }$ contains 7 states and 29 transitions and the product $\widetilde { \tau s }$ contains 3920 states and 50976 transitions. Table 5.1 shows the actions of the agents for the derived path, which is the sequence of states $\pi _ { s , 1 } \pi _ { s , 2 } \ldots \ldots ( \pi _ { s , 2 0 } ^ { \star } , . . . , \pi _ { s , 2 5 } ^ { \star } ) ^ { \omega }$ , where the states with (?) constitute the suffix that is run infinitely many times. Loosely speaking, the derived path describes the following behavior: Agent 2 goes first to $\pi _ { 1 }$ to grasp and transfer object 2 to $\pi _ { 4 }$ and back to $\pi _ { 1 }$ with agent 1. The two agents then navigate to $\pi _ { 2 }$ to take object 1 to $\pi _ { 4 }$ . In the following, after agent 2 goes to $\pi _ { 3 }$ , they both go to $\pi _ { 1 }$ to transfer object 2 to π2. Then, they navigate to $\pi _ { 4 }$ to transfer object 1 to $\pi _ { 1 }$ and back. Finally, the actions that are run infinitely many times consist of agent 2 going to from $\pi _ { 4 }$ to $\pi _ { 3 }$ and back, and transferring object 1 to $\pi _ { 1 }$ and $\pi _ { 4 }$ with agent 1. One can verify that the resulting path satisfies the LTL formula. Note also that the regions are not large enough to contain both agents and objects in a grasping configuration, which played an important role in the derivation of the plan. The time taken for the construction of the product $\widetilde { \tau s }$ and the derivation of the path was 2.79 sec.

2. We now consider $N \ : = \ : 3$ agents with $q _ { 1 } ( 0 ) , \ q _ { 2 } ( 0 )$ , as in the first case, $\begin{array} { r } { q _ { 3 } ( 0 ) = [ - 1 4 , 1 5 , \frac { \pi } { 4 } , \frac { \pi } { 4 } ] ^ { \top } ( [ \mathrm { m } , \mathrm { r a d } ] ) } \end{array}$ implying $\mathcal { A } _ { 3 } ( q _ { 3 } ( 0 ) ) \in \pi _ { 4 }$ , with $\mathcal { A } \mathcal { G } _ { 3 , 0 } ( q _ { i } ( 0 ) , x ^ { o } ( 0 ) ) = \bar { \top } , \bar { \mathfrak { c } } _ { 3 } = 3$ , and no collisions occurring at $t = 0$ The functions Λ and $\chi$ are the same as in the first case. The formula in this scenario is

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left(\Box \neg " 1 - \pi_ {3}"\right) \land \left(\Box \Diamond " 2 - \pi_ {3}"\right) \land \left(\Box \Diamond " O _ {1} - \pi_ {1}"\right) \land \\ \Box \big (“ O _ {1} - \pi_ {1} ” \to \Diamond “ O _ {1} - \pi_ {4} ” \big) \land (\Box \Diamond “ O _ {2} - \pi_ {3} ”), \\ \end{array}
$$
