# 4.2 STL verification using reachability analysis

The following assumption encodes the fact that neural network reachability analyzers are sound.

Assumption 1 Consider a neural network N where the space of permitted inputs is X. Then a neural network reachability analyzer produces as output a set Y s.t. $. \forall x \in X : N ( x ) \in Y$ .

The following theorem establishes how we can reduce the problem of STL verification to the problem of NN reachability.

Theorem 2. Given an NNCS as described in (1), a set of initial conditions $\mathcal { T } \subseteq \mathcal { S }$ , and a bounded horizon STL formula ϕ, we can reduce the problem of checking (4) to a NN reachability analysis problem.

Proof. From Section 4.1, we know that given an NNCS, an initial state $\mathbf { s } _ { 0 }$ , and a bounded horizon STL formula $\varphi ,$ the TNN function $\mathcal { R } _ { \varphi }$ encodes $\rho ( \varphi , \sigma _ { \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } } , 0 )$ . From Assumption 1, if we have an NN reachability analyzer, given the set I we can obtain a set (say Y ) s.t. $\forall \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { Z } : \mathcal { R } _ { \varphi } ( \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } ) \in \dot { Y }$ . We can then compute inf Y and check if it is positive. If yes, the STL formula is satisfied by the set of all initial conditions for the given NNCS. 

While our method is broadly applicable with any NN reachability analysis tool that can compute sound over-approximations of the set of outputs for a given input set [48],[12], [20],[21], in this paper, we focus on a specific type of NN reachability analysis tool that uses the notion of star sets for performing reachability analysis [42]. The approach in [42] performs exact reachability analysis for DNNs with ReLU activation.

Thus, for the star sets-based technique to be applicable, we require that our given plant model either uses ReLU activations or is a linear model, and our controller uses ReLU activations. We can then apply star sets-based reachability by propagating the set I through the TNN to compute the range of robustness values through exact star based reachability analysis. This verification is sound and complete since the output range for $\mathcal { R } _ { \varphi }$ can be accurately computed.7
