As discussed before, collision avoidance is considered to be a crucial property in real robotic systems, and is tackled in a large variety of multirobot works. The majority of the related works, however, considers spherical agents, which provide a straightforward metric for the inter-agent or the agent-to-obstacle distances. However, since the shapes of real robotic vehicles can be far from spherical (e.g., robotic manipulators), that approach can be too conservative and may prevent the agents from fulfilling their primary objectives. Ellipsoids, on the other hand, can approximate more accurately the volume of autonomous agents.

The authors in [197, 209, 210] employ diffeomorphisms to transform arbitrarily-shaped obstacles, including ellipsoids, to points. This methodology, however, is not straightforwardly extendable to the case of moving obstacles (i.e., multiple autonomous agents). A point-world transformation of multi-agent systems was taken into account in [80]. As described in [80] though, each agent’s transformation deforms the other agents into shapes whose implicit closed-form equation (and hence a suitable distance metric) is not trivial to obtain. The methodology of [209] provides useful insight, where the volume of each agent is “absorbed” to the other agents via Minkowski sums. The closed-form implicit equation of the resulting shapes, however, although possible to obtain [245], cannot be used to derive an appropriate distance metric in a straightforward way; [246] derives a conservative inter-ellipsoid distance by employing ellipsoid-to-sphere transformations and eigenvalue computations. An arithmetic algorithm that produces velocities for inter-agent elliptical agents is derived in [247], without, however, theoretical guarantees. Optimization-based techniques (e.g., Model Predictive Control), which can be employed for collision avoidance of convex-shaped agents (like e.g., in Chapter 2), can be too complex to solve, especially in cases where the control must be decentralized and/or complex dynamics are considered. The latter property constitutes another important issue regarding the related literature. In particular, most related works consider simplified single- or double-integrator models, which deviate from the actual dynamics and can lead to performance decline and safety jeopardy.
