and, in view of (4.31), one can conclude that $x _ { i _ { \mathcal { L } } ^ { \prime } } ( t _ { i _ { \mathcal { L } } } ) \in \widetilde { { \mathcal { F } } } _ { i _ { \mathcal { L } } ^ { \prime } } , x _ { i } ( t _ { i _ { \mathcal { L } } } ) \in \widetilde { { \mathcal { F } } } _ { i }$ $\forall i \in \widetilde { \mathcal { N } } \backslash \{ i _ { \mathcal { L } } ^ { \prime } \}$ . Therefore, the application of Theorem 4.3 with $t _ { i _ { \mathcal { L } } }$ as $t _ { 0 }$ and agent $i _ { \mathcal { L } } ^ { \prime }$ as leader guarantees its navigation ε-close to $x _ { \mathrm { d } _ { i _ { L } ^ { \prime } } }$ . Applying iteratively the aforementioned reasoning, we guarantee the successful navigation of all the agents. More specifically, we initially set off-line the priorities of the agents based on a desired metric (e.g., distance to the goal), and set $i _ { \mathcal { L } }$ as the top priority agent. Then the following procedure is iterated until all agents have reached their goals. The agents apply the control protocol (4.28)-(4.30). When the leader agent satisfies $\| x _ { i _ { \mathcal { L } } } - x _ { \mathrm { d } _ { i _ { r } } } \| \leq \varepsilon$ , it switches off its control, broadcasts this information to all other agents, and the next leader is chosen as the next agent in priority. Therefore, in view of Theorem 4.3, all agents will eventually reach ε-close to their destinations. This is illustrated in Algorithm 1, which is run by each agent separately. The algorithm receives as input the agent index and destination $i , x _ { \mathrm { d } _ { i } }$ , respectively, as well as the priority vector Pr, which have been set a priori. Next, depending on the priority (lines 3, 4), agent i applies the control algorithm (4.28)-(4.30) (line 8). In case agent i has the top priority and reaches its goal, it broadcasts to the other agents that it has arrived and exits the loop (lines 5-7). Finally, the agents are equipped with a callback function Receive that continuously checks whether some agent $j \in \mathcal { N } \backslash \{ i \}$ broadcasts the arrival to its destination, so that they update accordingly the priority vector Pr (lines 9, 10). Note that the latter is a synchronous procedure and the priority variable Pr is always the same for all agents.

Algorithm 1 Hybrid Control Strategy for Agent i   
1: Input: i, $x_{d_i}$ , Pr
2: while True do
3: if $\Pr[i] > \Pr[j]$ , $\forall j \in N \setminus \{i\}$ then
4: $i_{L} \leftarrow i;$ 5: if $\|x_i - x_{d_i}\| \leq \varepsilon$ then
6: Broadcast("arrived");
7: break;
8: Apply (4.28)-(4.30)
9: if Receive("Arrived", j) then
10: $\Pr \leftarrow \text{Update}(\Pr, j);$

As a final remark, note that ε can be arbitrarily small, achieving thus practical convergence of the agents to their destinations $x _ { \mathrm { d } _ { i } } , i \in \mathcal { N }$ .
