# 1.1 Thesis Outline and Contributions

In this Section, we provide the outline of the thesis and indicate the contributions of each chapter. The thesis is divided into four main parts, the first three of which aiming to solve the aforementioned problems, and the final one discussing single-agent extensions.

• The first part consists of Chapters 2 and 3. In this part, we first tackle the problem of cooperative manipulation of an object grasped by several robotic agents. We propose a variety of control algorithms, combining centralized and decentralized setups, rigid and rolling contacts, adaptive and Model Predictive control techniques, as well as incorporation of collision avoidance techniques with workspace obstacles. Next, motivated by its application to cooperative manipulation, we propose a novel control algorithm for the formation stabilization of a multi-agent team. Moreover, we explicitly study the relation of rigid formation control with robotic cooperative manipulation schemes through rigid contacts.

• The second part consists of Chapter 4. In this part, we develop continuous control algorithms for multi-agent coordination under model uncertainties. More specifically, we propose first a novel adaptive control protocol for the single- and multi-agent collision-free navigation in an obstacle-cluttered workspace subject to uncertain dynamics and spherical shapes. Next, we tackle the leader-follower coordination problem. We develop an adaptive control algorithm for the leader navigation to a predefined goal while guaranteeing inter-agent collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance. Finally, motivated by real robotic structures, we present a closed form control protocol that achieves collision avoidance among ellipsoidal agents, while compensating at the same time for the uncertain dynamics.

• The third part consists of Chapter 5. In this chapter, we design welldefined abstractions for multi-agent and multi-agent-object systems in discretized workspaces. This allows us to define complex tasks as temporal logic formulas and employ formal verification methodologies to synthesize control protocols. The discretized abstractions include both fully partitioned workspaces as well as discretization based on predefined regions of the workspace. We use control methodologies from the previous chapters as well as newly designed ones.
