# 1 Introduction

Learning-enabled components (LECs) offer the promise of data-driven control, and hence they are becoming popular in many Cyber-physical system, CPS, applications. Among LECs, controllers trained using deep learning are becoming popular due to the advances in techniques like deep reinforcement learning and deep imitation learning. On one hand, the use of such LECs has the potential of achieving human level decision making in tasks like autonomous driving, aircraft collision avoidance, and control for aerial vehicles. On the other hand, the use of deep neural network (DNN)-based controllers raises serious concerns of safety.

Reasoning about DNNs is a challenge because DNNs are highly nonlinear [41], and due to the nature of data-driven control, the behavior of a DNN controller at a previously unseen state can be difficult to predict [30]. To address this challenge, there has been significant research on verification for DNNs. Broadly, there are two categories of verification methods; the first category considers DNN controllers in isolation and reasons about properties such as input-output robustness [13,22,25], range analysis [12], symbolic constraint propagation through DNNs [29], and overapproximate reachable set computation for DNNs [43]. The second category of methods reasons about DNN controllers in closed-loop with a dynamical model of the environment/plant [12,21,20,23].

In this paper, we also address the closed-loop verification problem. In this problem, we are typically provided with a set of inital states and a set of unsafe states for the system, and the goal is to prove that starting from an arbitrary initial state, no system behavior ever reaches a state in the unsafe set. However, we extend this problem in a significant manner. First, we assume that the desired behavior of the closed-loop system is specified as a bounded horizon Signal Temporal Logic (STL) [33] formula. Second, in contrast to most existing closedloop verification methods that typically assume that an analytic representation of the system dynamics exists, we allow the system dynamics themselves to be represented as a DNN. Such a setting is quite common in techniques such as model-based deep reinforcement learning [6,7]. This crucially allows us to reason about systems where the analytic representation of the system dynamics may not be available.
