# I. INTRODUCTION

The great potential and necessity for wireless networked control systems (NCS) which are characterized by controlling the plant over a (shared) communication channel together with significant developments of communication technologies have moved these systems to the center of attention within many engineering industries. This has been motivated by increasing complexity of modern control systems leading to the rapidly growing interest in characteristics the NCSs possess, such as great flexibility and adaptability regarding the system topology. Nevertheless, the main challenges which arise when controlling the system over a network are communication constraints such as limited transmission speed and unreliability of the communication channel. The resulting random time delays and data loss have a great impact on the control design, since they don’t in general allow a direct application of the conventional control laws. This leads to the need for new strategies which take these into account and ensure the stability and desired performance of the NCS despite the network uncertainties. An overview of the extensive literature considering the modeling of the network imperfections, the stability properties and control of NCS can be found in, e.g., [1], [2] and references therein.

1 Katarina Stanojevic, Martin Steinberger and Martin Horn are with the Institute of Automation and Control, Graz University of Technology, Graz, Austria. katarina.stanojevic@tugraz.at

2 Martin Horn is with the Christian Doppler Laboratory for Model Based Control of Complex Test Bed Systems, Institute of Automation and Control, Graz University of Technology, Graz, Austria.

The financial support by the Christian Doppler Research Association, the Austrian Federal Ministry for Digital and Economic Affairs and the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development is gratefully acknowledged.
