Other important properties that concern robotic manipulators are the 1) input saturation constraints, naturally characterizing real actuators, and 2) singularities of the Jacobian matrix, which maps the joint velocities of the agent to a 6D vector of generalized velocities. Such singular kinematic configurations, which indicate directions towards which the agents cannot move, must be always avoided, especially when dealing with task-space control in the end-effector [85]. As already mentioned before, representation singularities can also occur in the mapping from coordinate rates to angular velocities of a rigid body. Typical control schemes cannot guarantee satisfaction of a task while provably avoiding input saturations or singularities.

The aforementioned properties can be considered as an instance of constrained-based control, which has always been of special interest to the automatic control/robotics community, due to the advantages it yields, by keeping variables of interest in specific compact sets, while achieving a primary task. A widely employed methodology in the last years is the methodology of Model Predictive Control (MPC) [86], where a constrained optimization problem is solved for a finite horizon in the future, providing a prediction of the state evolution. For the design of a stabilizing feedback control law under such constraints, one would ideally look for a closed-loop solution for the feedback law satisfying the constraints while optimizing the performance. However, typically the optimal feedback law cannot be found analytically, even in the unconstrained case, since it involves the solution of the corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman partial differential equations. One approach to circumvent this problem is the repeated solution of an open-loop finite-horizon optimal control problem for a given state. The first part of the resulting open-loop input signal is implemented and the whole process is repeated. Control approaches using this strategy are referred to as Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) (see e.g. [86–95]), which we use in this chapter for the problem of the constraint cooperative object manipulation.
