TABLE VI: Robustness test. Each experiment is conducted nine times with the coil trajectory. Fail trials are excluded from computing the $b _ { s c o r e }$ and marked as $f a i l .$ . The energy penalty is defined as ${ \cal E } _ { \pi _ { i } } = 0 . 1 5 \cdot | \bar { u _ { \zeta } } | + 0 . 0 5 \cdot | \bar { u _ { \eta } } | + 0 . \bar { 1 } \cdot ( 1 \stackrel {  } { - } | \bar { u _ { \epsilon } } | ) + 0 . 7 \cdot | \bar { u _ { \delta } } |$ , which penalizes majorly on thrusting. The unit for wind is [m/s] and for buoyancy is [%]. The maximum speed of the simulated blimp is 2 [m/s].

Since deviating far from the track compromises the blimp’s safety, the position tracking error L is introduced to the $b _ { s c o r e }$ for the blimp navigation task, i.e.,

$$
\begin{array}{l} b _ {s c o r e} (\pi_ {i}) \\ = 1 0 0 \cdot \left(1 - \frac {3 T _ {\pi_ {i}}}{\sum_ {\pi_ {j} \in \pi} T _ {\pi_ {j}}} - \frac {E _ {\pi_ {i}}}{\sum_ {\pi_ {j} \in \pi} E _ {\pi_ {j}}} - \frac {L _ {\pi_ {i}}}{\sum_ {\pi_ {j} \in \pi} L _ {\pi_ {j}}}\right), \tag {32} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $T _ { \pi _ { i } }$ and $E _ { \pi _ { i } }$ are the time and energy penalty, and the $L _ { \pi _ { i } }$ is the average distance loss computed by the norm of the relative position.

The robustness test for the agents is displayed in Table VI. The $H _ { \infty } – \mathrm { P P O }$ outperforms the PID-PPO combination with a significantly higher success rate regardless of the wind or buoyancy condition. Even when the controller has zero intervention $q = 0$ , the PPO agent trained with $H _ { \infty }$ base control performs much better. And the $H _ { \infty } – \mathrm { P P O }$ performs the best when $q = 0 . 5$ without failing to any condition. This shows that our robust residual RL framework can generate a robust, high-performance controller. The explanations can be found in the table as well.
