The central idea in our paper is a neurosymbolic verification approach: we reformulate the robust satisfaction (referred to as robustness) of an STL formula w.r.t. a given trajectory as a feed-forward neural network with ReLU activation functions. We call this transformation STL2NN. We show that the output of STL2NN is positive iff the STL formula is satisfied by the trajectory. We note that the verification problem only requires establishing that the given closedloop dynamical system satisfies a given STL specification. However, by posing the verification problem as that of checking robust satisfaction, it allows us to conclude that the given DNN controller robustly satisfies the given specification.

We then show that when the DNN-controller uses ReLU activation functions, the problem of closed-loop STL verification can be reduced to computing the reachable set for a ReLU-DNN. If the controller is not a ReLU neural network, we propose a technique called Lip-Verify based on computing the Lipschitz constant of the robustness of the given STL formula (as a function of the initial state).

To summarize, the main contributions in this paper are:

1. We formulate a neuro-symbolic approach for the closed-loop verification of a DNN-controlled dynamical system against an STL-based specification by converting the given bounded horizon specification into a feed-forward ReLU-based DNN that we call STL2NN.   
2. For data-driven plant models using ReLU activation and ReLU-activation based DNN-controllers, we show that the verification of arbitrary bounded horizon STL properties can be reduced to computing the reach set of the composition of the plant and controller DNNs with STL2NN.

3. For arbitrary nonlinear plant models3 and DNN-controllers using arbitrary activation functions, we compute Lipschitz constant of the function composition of the system dynamics with STL robustness, and use this to provide a sound verification result using systematic sampling.
