# C. $H _ { \infty }$ Robust Control

This framework can be illustrated by the feedback control loop in Fig. 4, where K is the controller, G is our robot, and the state is directly observed from the sensor without any estimator. Given the tracking signal w and feedback observation $y _ { m }$ , The goal is to design the controller such that the tracking error $e = w - y _ { m }$ can be reduced over time subject to input and output disturbance $d u , d y$ . Note that in the hybrid control Fig. 2, the agent action can be viewed as part of du. The weighting filters have the following forms,

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} W _ {T} (s) = \frac {1}{T _ {\text { min }}} \cdot \frac {s + \omega_ {z t}}{s + \omega_ {n t}}, & \text {(10a)} \\ W _ {K S} (s) = \frac {1}{K S _ {\text { min }}} \cdot \frac {s + \omega_ {z k s}}{s + \omega_ {n k s}}, & \text {(10b)} \\ W _ {S} (s) = \frac {1}{S _ {\text { max }}} \cdot \frac {s + \omega_ {z s}}{s + \omega_ {n s}}, & \text {(10c)} \end{array} \right.
$$

where ω is the cut-off frequency of each filter. The weight filter parameters in our experiments are presented in Table. II. Then the controller K can be solved by satisfying the following constraint,

$$
\left\| \begin{array}{c} W _ {S} \cdot S \\ W _ {K S} \cdot K S \\ W _ {T} \cdot T \end{array} \right\| _ {\infty} \leq 1 \tag {11}
$$

In practice, we design the weight filters manually and then solve the controller K in MATLAB [20]. Let $D U$ and U be the Laplace transform of the unknown input disturbance du and control command u, then system response can be formulated as follows,

$$G \cdot (I + \Delta \cdot W _ {T}) \cdot U = G \cdot (U + D U), \tag {12}$$

by treating the input disturbance as part of model uncertainty, where I is the identity matrix and $\begin{array} { l } { \Delta \ = \ \Delta ( s ) } \end{array}$ is the uncertainty matrix with $\| \Delta \| _ { \infty } ~ \leq ~ 1$ . After factoring out $G ,$ we can derive the following relation by matrix submultiplicative,

$$\left\| D U \right\| _ {2} = \left\| \Delta \cdot W _ {T} \cdot U \right\| _ {2} \tag {13}\leq \| \Delta \| _ {2} \cdot \| W _ {T} \| _ {2} \cdot \| U \| _ {2} \tag {14}\leq \left\| W _ {T} \right\| _ {2} \cdot \left\| U \right\| _ {2} \tag {15}$$

Since matrix $W _ { T }$ is diagonal and only consists of identical values, we can consider the i-th row of (15):

$$\left\| D U _ {i} \right\| _ {2} \leq \left\| W _ {T, i} \right\| _ {2} \cdot \left\| U _ {i} \right\| _ {2}. \tag {16}$$
