# 2. SETUP

We consider a setup where the sensors and actuators of a continuous plant are connected through a communication network and exchange information only at discrete transmission times. The plant is described by

$$\dot {x} _ {p} = f _ {p} \left(x _ {p}, \hat {u}\right), \tag {1}y = g _ {p} (x _ {p})$$

where $x _ { p } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ is the plant state with initial condition $x _ { p } ( 0 ) , \ \hat { y ( t ) } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { y } }$ is the plant output and $\hat { u } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ is the last input that has been received by the plant.

Only the output y but not the whole plant state $x _ { p }$ can be measured. Thus, an observer that is connected to the plant’s sensors is used to reconstruct the plant state based on y. The observer is described 1 by

$$\dot {x} _ {o} = f _ {o} (x _ {o}, \hat {u}, y), \tag {2}$$

where $x _ { o } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ is the observer state.

The input is generated by the static state-feedback controller

$$u = g _ {c} (x _ {o})$$

using the observer state $x _ { o } .$ In this paper, we consider an emulation approach, i.e., we suppose that the controller has been designed for state feedback for plant (1) ignoring the network effects using any method for the design of nonlinear continuous state-feedback controllers with some

robustness to the input errors. The functions $f _ { p }$ and $f _ { o }$ are assumed to be continuous and the functions $g _ { p }$ and $g _ { c }$ are assumed to be continuously differentiable.

The transmission times $( t _ { j } ) _ { j \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 } }$ are determined by an STC mechanism to be specified later. At each transmission time, the input ˆu is updated based on the current values of $g _ { c } ( x _ { o } ) , \mathrm { i . e . , } \hat { u } ( t _ { j } ) = \bar { u ( t _ { j } ) } = g _ { c } ( x _ { o } ( t _ { j } ) )$ . Further, we denote by $\scriptstyle { \hat { x } } _ { o }$ the observer state associated to the last transmission time, i.e., $\hat { x } _ { o } ( t _ { j } ) ~ = ~ x _ { o } ( t _ { j } )$ . Between transmission times, we assume that ˆu (and thus $\hat { x } _ { o } )$ is kept constant, which resembles a zero-order-hold (ZOH) scenario. We introduce $e : = \hat { x } _ { o } - x _ { p }$ with $e ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \dot { n } _ { x } }$ to describe the sum of the observer induced error and the network induced error.
