Consider now that $h _ { o } = h _ { \mathrm { m } } = 0 _ { 6 } \Leftrightarrow h = h _ { \mathrm { i n t } }$ , i.e., the agents produce only internal forces, without inducing object acceleration. Then, the agent dynamics are

$$B \ddot {q} + C _ {q} \dot {q} + g _ {q} = \tau - J ^ {\top} h _ {\mathrm{int}},$$

and the respective unconstrained acceleration $\alpha _ { \mathrm { i n t } } : = \alpha _ { \mathrm { i n t } } ( q , \dot { q } ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is given by

$$B \alpha_ {\mathrm{int}} := \tau - C _ {q} \dot {q} - g _ {q}.$$

Hence, by proceeding in a similar fashion as for ${ \dot { \widetilde { x } } } ,$ , we derive an expression for the internal forces as

$$
\begin{array}{l} - J ^ {\top} h _ {\text { int }} = A _ {\text { int }} ^ {\top} \left(A _ {\text { int }} B ^ {- 1} A _ {\text { int }} ^ {\top}\right) ^ {\dagger} \left(b _ {\text { int }} - A _ {\text { int }} \alpha_ {\text { int }}\right) (3.50a) \\ = B ^ {\frac {1}{2}} \left(A _ {\mathrm{int}} B ^ {- \frac {1}{2}}\right) ^ {\dagger} \left(b _ {\mathrm{int}} - A _ {\mathrm{int}} \alpha_ {\mathrm{int}}\right). (3.50b) \\ \end{array}
$$

with $A _ { \mathrm { i n t } } , \ : b _ { \mathrm { i n t } }$ as defined in (3.48).

Therefore, one concludes that when the unconstrained motion of the system does not satisfy the constraints (i.e., when $b _ { \mathrm { i n t } } \neq A _ { \mathrm { i n t } } \alpha _ { \mathrm { i n t } } )$ , then the actual accelerations of the system are modified in a manner directly proportional to the extent to which these constraints are violated. Moreover, it is evident from the aforementioned expression that the internal forces depend, not only on the relative distances $p _ { i } - p _ { j }$ , but also on the closed loop dynamics and the inertia of the unconstrained system (see the dependence on $\alpha _ { \mathrm { i n t } }$ and B). Therefore, given a desired force $h _ { O , \mathrm { d } }$ to be applied to the object, an internal force-free distribution to agent forces $h _ { i , \mathrm { d } }$ at the grasping points cannot be independent of the system dynamics. This is clearly illustrated in the following example.

Example 3.1. Consider a simplified 1D scenario, with two agents rigidly grasping an object (see Fig. 3.14) subject to the dynamics

$$m _ {i} \ddot {p} _ {i} = u _ {i} - h _ {i}, i \in \{1, 2 \}m _ {o} \ddot {p} _ {o} = h _ {o} = h _ {1} + h _ {2},$$
