# I. INTRODUCTION

LMIs are a powerful and versatile tool that can be used to solve a broad range of problems in science and engineering, including control theory, optimization, signal processing, and robotics. One specific type of LMIs is the Infinite-dimensional Toeplitz Block LMIs (TBLMI), which involve matrices of infinite dimension with a Toeplitz block structure. TBLMIs are encountered in the context of harmonic analysis and control, a topic of great theoretical and practical interest in numerous application domains, including energy management and embedded systems to mention few [1], [3], [5], [9], [10], [12], [13].

Solving TBLMIs poses a significant challenge due to the infinite dimensionality. The issue we tackle in this paper is different from the problem previously examined in [7], which aimed to reduce an infinite number of LMIs to a finite number of LMIs. In our case, the number of inequalities is finite but the entries and the unknowns are infinite-dimensional. To illustrate the challenges involved, recall the following fact (see [8] for more detail): "a truncated matrix of a Hurwitz infinite-dimensional harmonic matrix may not be Hurwitz at any truncation order". As a result, it is possible that solving the truncated version of an infinite-dimensional harmonic Lyapunov equation may not yield a positive definite solution.

In [8], efficient algorithms and methods that leverage the Toeplitz structure have been proposed to determine the infinitedimensional solution to harmonic Lyapunov or Riccati equations with arbitrarily small error. In this paper, we aim to expand upon this new approach and extend it to the TBLMI

framework. To the authors knowledge, it is the first time that this problem is raised. Our objective is to define a truncated version of the original problem which enables the recovery of the infinite-dimensional solution with arbitrary accuracy. Contrarily to the literature on the subject [10], [12], [13], these new results do not invoke Floquet theory. The latter is of interest for stability analysis of LTP systems but it is limited for control design purposes [8].
