To overcome this challenge, a general-momentum observer is presented in [29, 30], where the Euler-Lagrangian system is transformed into a linear model by defining the general momentum as the state variable. Based on the linearized model, a linear observer is designed to reconstruct the disturbance. As a result, the estimation error dynamics of the observer is equivalent to a first-order filter, where the estimation error is the filtered output of the disturbance. Since this approach does not require the calculation of the inverse inertia matrix, it is widely applied to safe HRI systems and fault detection and isolation of robots [31, 32, 33]. However, this method requires the system velocity in the feedback loop. Actually, in most of the practical applications, the system velocity is not directly measurable but is obtained by differentiating the position measurement [34], which introduces noise. Including the velocity in the closed-loop amplifies the differential noise and affects the performance of the observer. Unfortunately, a disturbance estimation method that requires neither the inverse inertia matrix nor the velocity feedback still lacks.

Therefore, the main contribution of this paper is to fill this gap by presenting a disturbance estimation method without both the inverse inertia matrix and system velocity feedback. Specifically, we propose a novel linearized model for Euler-Lagrangian systems and design a sliding-mode-based observer for this model, which ensures accurate disturbance estimation. Note that it is a challenge that the linearized model formulates second-order dynamics, for which the conventional disturbance observation framework does not apply [22, 25]. We solve this problem with the partial dynamical collapse property of sliding mode and guarantee the estimation precision using the Lyapunov-based method and the equivalent control theory. The solution of feasible observer parameters is given by a linear matrix inequality (LMI). The remaining content of this paper is organized as follows. Sec. 2 interprets our main results, including the linearization scheme of the original system and the design of the disturbance observer. In Sec. 3, we validate our method on a seven-DoF robot manipulator platform by two experiments and evaluate its performance. Finally, Sec. 4 concludes the paper.
