5.6 Execution of the paths $( \pi _ { 2 } \pi _ { 4 } \pi _ { 3 } ) ^ { 1 }$ and $( \pi _ { 4 } \pi _ { 3 } \pi _ { 2 } ) ^ { 1 }$ by agents 1 and 2, respectively for the first experimental scenario.
(a), (d): $\pi _ { 2 }  _ { 1 } \pi _ { 4 } , \pi _ { 4 }  _ { 2 } \pi _ { 3 } , ( \mathrm { b } ) , ( \mathrm { e } ) : \pi _ { 4 }  _ { 1 } \pi _ { 3 } , \pi _ { 3 }  _ { 2 } \pi _ { 2 } , ( \mathrm { c } ) , ( \mathrm { f } ) : \pi _ { 3 }  _ { 1 }$ $\pi _ { 2 } , \pi _ { 2 }  _ { 2 } \pi _ { 4 }$ .
.
.
.
.
.
245   
5.7 The resulting 2-dimensional control signals of the 2 agents for the first experimental scenario.
Top: agent 1, bottom: agent 2.
245   
5.8 Initial workspace for the second experimental scenario.
(a): The UAVs with the projection of their bounding spheres, (with red and green), and the regions of interest (blue disks).
(b): Top view of the described workspace.
The UAVs are represented by the red and green circled X’s and the regions of interest by the blue disks $\pi _ { 1 } , \ldots , \pi _ { 3 } .$ .
.
.
247   
5.9 The resulting 2-dimensional control signals of the 2 agents for the second experimental scenario.
Top: agent 1, bottom: agent 2.
247   
5.10 Execution of the paths $( \pi _ { 1 } \pi _ { 2 } \pi _ { 3 } \pi _ { 2 } ) ^ { 1 }$ and $( \pi _ { 2 } \pi _ { 1 } ) ^ { 2 }$ by agents 1 and 2, respectively for the second experimental scenario.
(a), (d): $\pi _ { 1 }  _ { 1 } \pi _ { 2 } , \pi _ { 2 }  _ { 2 } \pi _ { 1 } , ( \mathrm { b } ) , ( \mathrm { e } ) : \pi _ { 2 }  _ { 1 } \pi _ { 3 } , \pi _ { 1 }  _ { 2 } \pi _ { 2 } , ( \mathrm { c } ) , ( \mathrm { f } ) :$ π3 1 π2, π2 2 π1.
.
.
.
.
.
.
248   
5.11 An agent that consists of $\ell _ { i } = 3$ rigid links.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
248   
5.12 (a): The initial position of the agents in the workspace of the simulation example.
(b): The first transition of the agents in the workspace.
Agent 1 transits from $\pi _ { 1 }$ to $\pi _ { 2 }$ , agent 2 from $\pi _ { 2 }$ to $\pi _ { 1 }$ , and agent 3 from $\pi _ { 1 }$ to $\pi _ { 3 }$ .
(c): The second transition of the agents in the workspace.
Agent 1 transits from $\pi _ { 2 }$ to $\pi _ { 1 }$ , agent 2 from $\pi _ { 1 }$ to $\pi _ { 2 } .$ and agent 3 from $\pi _ { 3 }$ to $\pi _ { 2 }$ .
.
.
257   
5.13 The obstacle functions $\beta _ { i } , i \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \}$ , which remain strictly positive.
.
.
258   
5.14 The resulting control inputs ${ \tau } _ { i } , { \forall i \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \} }$ for the two transitions.259   
5.15 The parameter deviations $\widetilde { \alpha } _ { i } , \forall i \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 \}$ , which are shown to be bounded.
.
.
.
259   
5.16 An example of the system shown in Fig.
2.1 in the configuration that produces $\hat { L }$ .
.
.
260   
5.17 The workspace partition according to the bounding box of the coupled system.
.
.
.
