6.1 Workspace overview. The red discs correspond to the three regions of interest. The plotted paths are the resulting trajectories from the first out of the five executions of the suffix. . . . . . . . 306

6.2 (top) The transition times calculated before each transition; filled marks correspond to actually used transition times. (bottom) The resulting timed run of the transition system. . . . . . 307

6.3 A UR5 robotic arm in an obstacle-cluttered environment with 4 targets. . . . . 317

6.4 Box plots showing the execution time (top) and the nodes (bottom) created of the three algorithms (in logarithmic scale) for the four paths (organized in two groups of two (left and right)); $" + "$ indicate the outliers. . 319

6.5 Box plots showing the execution time (a) and number of nodes (b) created for the kinodynamic RRT in logarithmic scale (for the first two joints and the path $( 0 , 0 )  \bigl ( - \frac { \pi } { 1 8 } , \frac { \pi } { 4 } \bigr ) \bigr )$ . . . . . . . . 319

6.6 The error values $e _ { r _ { j } } ( t ) = e _ { r _ { j } } ( t ) - q _ { \mathrm { d } , r _ { j } } ^ { i } ( t )$ for the adaptive controller (a) and the PID one (b). . . . 320   
6.7 The evolution of the errors $e _ { p } ( t ) \ ( \mathrm { t o p } ) , e _ { v } ( t )$ (bottom), depicted with blue, along with the performance functions $\rho _ { p } ( t ) , \ \rho _ { v } ( t )$ , depicted with red, $\forall t \in [ 0 , 6 0 ]$ sec. . . . . . 331   
6.8 The evolution of the transformed errors $\varepsilon _ { p } ( t ) , \varepsilon _ { v } ( t ) , \forall t \in [ 0 , 6 0 ]$ sec.332   
6.9 The evolution of the control inputs $u ( t ) = [ u _ { 1 } ( t ) , u _ { 2 } ( t ) ] ^ { \top } , \forall t \in$ [0, 60] sec. . . . . . 332   
6.10 The evolution of the adaptation signal ˆd(t), ∀t ∈ [0, 60] sec. . . . 333   
B.1 Illustration of funnel control, where the error $e ( t )$ is confined in the prescribed funnel defined by the functions $\rho _ { L } ( t ) , \rho _ { U } ( t ) . \mathrm { ~ \scriptsize ~ . ~ . ~ . ~ 3 4 9 ~ }$
