# 3.1 Hybrid Lyapunov functions

In this subsection, we recap assumptions on the plant and the controller that are needed to construct a hybrid Lyapunov function and to derive a bound on it. We use the following assumption (Hertneck and Allg¨ower, 2021, Assumption 1 for $w = 0 )$ , that is based on (Carnevale et al., 2007, Assumption 1).

Assumption 1. There exist a locally Lipschitz function $W : \mathbb { R } ^ { \bar { n } _ { e } }  \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ , a locally Lipschitz function $V : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } } $ $\mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } .$ , a continuous function ${ \bf \bar { \cal H } } : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { e } } \to \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } ,$ , constants $L , \gamma \in \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } , \epsilon \in \mathbb { R }$ , and $\underline { { \alpha } } _ { W } , \overline { { \alpha } } _ { W } , \underline { { \alpha } } _ { V } , \overline { { \alpha } } _ { V } \in \bar { \mathcal { K } } _ { \infty }$ such that for all $e \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { e } }$ ,

$$\underline {{\alpha}} _ {W} (| e |) \leq W (e) \leq \overline {{\alpha}} _ {W} (| e |), \tag {5}$$

for all $x _ { p } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ ,

$$\underline {{\alpha}} _ {V} (| x _ {p} |) \leq V (x _ {p}) \leq \overline {{\alpha}} _ {V} (| x _ {p} |), \tag {6}$$

and for all $x _ { p } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ and almost all $e \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { e } }$ ,

$$\left\langle \frac {\partial W (e)}{\partial e}, g (x _ {p}, e) \right\rangle \leq L W (e) + H (x _ {p}, e). \tag {7}$$

Moreover, for all $e \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { e } }$ and almost all $x _ { p } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ ,

$$\langle \nabla V (x _ {p}), f (x _ {p}, e) \rangle_ {V (\dots), H ^ {2} (\dots), 2 H ^ {2} (\dots)} \tag {8}\leq - \epsilon V (x _ {p}) - H ^ {2} (x _ {p}, e) + \gamma^ {2} W ^ {2} (e).$$

A discussion of this assumption can be found in Carnevale et al. (2007). Note that it involves only the plant and the controller and does not depend on the observer. We will specify conditions on the observer in the next subsection. Note also that Assumption 1 can hold simultaneously for different choices of $\epsilon , \gamma$ and L. If we can find one set of parameters for which the assumption holds, then we will typically also be able to find many different parameter sets.

To determine transmission times, the proposed STC framework will use a bound on the evolution of $V ( x )$ , that is adapted from Hertneck and Allg¨ower (2021). This bound is based on the function
