The Lyapunov stability theory and analysis of dynamical systems in terms of Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMIs) has been essential in the control systems community, since it was proposed in literature [3]. The possibility to express a control problem as a standard convex optimization problem involving LMIs which can efficiently be solved numerically has been recognized in the field of NCS, as well. A very powerful stability characterization based on parameterdependent Lyapunov functions is proposed in [4], [5], which leads to a control law ensuring the stability of NCS including time-varying delays, packet dropouts and variations in the sampling interval. However, the stability analysis and controller synthesis for time-variant NCS models combining all relevant network uncertainties results in a very high complexity of this method. First, a suitable polytopic model must be derived using over-approximation techniques such as the Jordan Form. Second, the number of LMIs which needs to be solved to compute a control law is very high and increases exponentially when, e.g., the maximum allowable delay is increased.

To circumvent the high computational complexity of the aforementioned approach, a buffering mechanism has been proposed in literature, see, e.g., [6], [7], [8] which adds additional delay so, that a constant (worst-case) delay is ensured. The great advantage of this approach is that the resulting NCS model becomes time-invariant which significantly simplifies the control design. Nevertheless, even though the delay introduced by the network might be short for some data packets, they are not forwarded to the plant until the maximal delay is reached, therefore leading often to unnecessarily long delays, which are in general undesirable.
