Remark 2.10. The internal force control presented here accounts for the dynamics of the system by appropriately scaling $f _ { \mathrm { i n t } } ^ { \prime }$ , which rejects perturbations from causing slip. However, as opposed to [120], we relax the condition that $\epsilon _ { f }$ must upper bound all of the dynamics terms by exploiting knowledge of the applied controller via the term $\kappa _ { \mathrm { i n t } } \big ( \operatorname* { m i n } _ { j } \{ k _ { \mathrm { i n t } , j } \} \big )$ . This reduces the amount of squeezing force applied to prevent crushing the object.

The stability and slip prevention guarantees of the proposed controller are presented in the following theorem.

Theorem 2.5. Consider N robotic agents in contact with an object, described by the dynamics (2.70), (2.73), and suppose Assumptions 2.10 and 2.11 hold. a the desired object pose $[ p _ { \mathrm { d } } ^ { \top } , \eta _ { \mathrm { d } } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } : \mathbb { R } _ { \ge 0 }  \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 } \times \mathbb { S } ^ { 3 }$ be bounded with bounded first and second derivatives. Moreover, assume that $e _ { \varphi } ( 0 ) \not = 0$ and $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } ( 0 ) \in \mathrm { I n t } ( \mathcal { F } _ { C _ { i } } ( \mu _ { f } ) ) , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } . \ T h e n$ , the control protocol (2.80a)-(2.87) guarantees that $l i m _ { t  \infty } ^ {   } ( e _ { p _ { o } } ( t ) , e _ { \eta } ( t ) ) = ( 0 , [ \pm 1 , 0 ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } )$ , as well as boundedness of all closed-loop signals. Moreover, by choosing a sufficiently large $\epsilon _ { f }$ in (2.87), it holds that $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } ( t ) \in \mathcal { F } _ { C _ { i } } , \forall t > 0 , i \in \mathcal { N }$ .

Proof. Consider the stack vector state $\chi : = [ e _ { p _ { o } } ^ { \top } , e _ { \epsilon } ^ { \top } , e _ { v _ { o } } ^ { \top } , e _ { \vartheta _ { \mathcal R } } ^ { \top } , e _ { \vartheta _ { \mathcal R } , o } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } \in \mathcal X : =$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { 1 2 + N \ell _ { \mathcal { R } } + \ell _ { \mathcal { R } _ { o } } }$ . Next, note by (2.70), (2.71), and (2.77) that, when $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } \in \mathcal { F } _ { C _ { i } }$ each $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } }$ can be written as a function of the stack state, i.e., $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } = f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } ( \chi )$ , $\forall i \in { \mathcal { N } } .$ . Consider also the set
