Thank you David, for organizing the after work activities, and Mladen, Jezdimir, Rui, Rijad, Ines, and all the other kitchen regulars for our endless lunch discussions. Joana, thank you for pushing us to learn Swedish, our little group was successful while it lasted. I am grateful for Robert, Matias, Emma, and Elis for their positive spirit and for being great companions in our travels abroad. I am glad to have met the Italian attitude of Antonio, Riccardo, Valerio, Marco, and Demia. Thank you Peter for showing me stereograms and how to eat chestnut puree. Thank you Vahan for the khinkali. I would also like to thank my great roommates, Pedro Roque, Goncalo, Manne, Rong, and of course, Pedro Pereira, whose need for technical rigorousness motivated me and contributed to my compulsion. Thank you Dionisi, for always passing by to discuss random things, we have missed you. Thanks also to the SML people. Thank you Aldo for your positive attitude and inexplicably contagious laughter, Robin and Kuba, for refusing to give up on the robotic arms and my controllers, and Pedro, for upgrading the SML and pushing me (not very successfully though) to experiment with real robots.

I would further like to thank my Co4Robots partners and friends. Thank you Dimitri, Wei, Christos, and Pouria for your help in the project organization and implementation. Thank you Pedro, Sergio, Michali, Kosta Alevizo, Kosta Roditaki, Alexandre, Philipp, Alessandro, George, Claudio, and Meng for all our experiences during this project. I further thank the rest of the CSL people, Prof. Kyriakopoulos, Costas Vrohidis, and Panagiotis Vlantis for our collaboration during the project as well as my master thesis, and of course Babis, for exposing me to intelligent control systems and teaching me Lyapunov tricks. Babi, I wouldn’t be here without you.
