Theorem 1. Consider the hybrid system (4) with $S ( \eta , x _ { o } )$ defined according to (17) and $\dot { \Gamma ( } x _ { o } , \eta )$ defined by Algorithm 1 with $\overbar { C } ( x _ { o } , \eta )$ according to (19), some $\delta \in \mathsf { \Gamma }$ (0, 1) and $V _ { \mathrm { m a x } } > \mathrm { ~ \dot { ~ } 0 ~ }$ . Assume there are $n _ { p }$ different parameter sets $\epsilon _ { i } , \gamma _ { i } , L _ { i } , \textit { i } \in \left\{ 1 , \ldots , n _ { p } \right\}$ , for which Assumption 1 holds with the same function V and let $\epsilon _ { 1 } \geq \epsilon _ { \mathrm { r e f } } > 0 $ . Let Assumption 2 hold. Then, the set $\{ ( x _ { p } , x _ { o } , e , \eta , \tau , \tau _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ) : x _ { p } = \stackrel { } { 0 } , x _ { o } = 0 , e = 0 , \eta = 0 \}$ is UGAS and for any maximal solution $\xi , t _ { j + 1 } - t _ { j } \geq t _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } : =$ $\begin{array} { r } { \delta T _ { \mathrm { m a x } } \left( \gamma _ { 1 } , L _ { 1 } + \frac { \epsilon _ { 1 } } { 2 } \right) } \end{array}$ for all $j \in$ dom ξ.

The proof of Theorem 1 is given in Appendix A.

Remark 1. The main difference of the proposed output feedback STC mechanism in comparison to the variant with full state measurements is that the observer state is used instead of the real plant state to determine transmission times and to compute inputs that are applied to the plant. Since the observer error is handled together with the network induced error, Assumption 1 is the same as for the full state-feedback case (cf. (Hertneck and Allg¨ower, 2021, Assumption 1 for $w = \mathrm { 0 } ) ,$ ), i.e., the parameters $\epsilon _ { i } , \gamma _ { i } , L _ { i }$ can be determined in the same way as for the case with full state measurements and are independent from the observer choice. Since the observer has no influence on Assumption 1, the design of controller and STC mechanism can be separated from the design of the observer, and any observer that satisfies Assumption 2 can be used.

Remark 2. There are three parameters $\epsilon _ { \mathrm { r e f } } , V _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and δ for the proposed STC mechanism that can be chosen by the user. The worst case asymptotic convergence speed of the system state is determined by $\epsilon _ { \mathrm { r e f } } .$ . The bound $V _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ is needed to avoid that the Lyapunov function grows faster than the observer error converges and can be chosen arbitrarily large. The parameter δ is needed for technical reasons. For a preferably large time between transmissions, it should be chosen close to 1, e.g., $\delta = 0 . 9 9 9$ .

Remark 3. Note that the proof of Theorem 1 can be modified if $\epsilon V ( x )$ is replaced in Assumption 1 for $i = 1$ by $\rho ( | x | )$ for some $\rho \in \mathcal { K }$ to still guarantee UGAS. This makes the assumption less restrictive but requires however some additional technical modifications that are omitted for simplicity.
