$$
\beta (z) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \bar {\beta} \frac {\exp \left(- \frac {1}{z}\right) + \exp \left(- \frac {1}{\tau - z}\right)}{\exp \left(- \frac {1}{z}\right)}, & z \leq \tau \\ \bar {\beta}, & z \geq \tau , \end{array} \right.
$$

for any positive $\bar { \beta }$ and sufficiently small τ , or the functions

$$
\beta (z) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {1}{6 z ^ {5} - 1 5 z ^ {4} + 1 0 z ^ {3}}, & z \leq 1 \\ 1, & z \geq 1, \end{array} \right. \tag {4.7}

\beta (z) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \ln^ {4} \left(\frac {z}{\tau}\right), & z \leq \tau \\ 0, & z \geq \tau . \end{array} \right.
$$

Note that $\beta ^ { \prime } ( z ) = \beta ^ { \prime \prime } ( z ) = 0$ , for $z \geq \tau$ . We define also the constant

$$\bar {r} _ {\mathrm{d}} := \min \left\{\bar {r} _ {\mathcal {W}} ^ {2} - \| x _ {\mathrm{d}} \| ^ {2}, \min _ {j \in \mathcal {J}} \left\{\| x _ {\mathrm{d}} - c _ {j} \| ^ {2} - \bar {r} _ {o _ {j}} ^ {2} \right\} \right\} \tag {4.8}$$

as the minimum distance of the goal to the obstacles/workspace boundary.

We prove next that, by appropriately choosing $\tau ,$ only one $\beta ( d _ { j } ( x ) )$ , $j \in \bar { \mathcal { I } }$ affects the robotic agent for each $x \in { \mathcal { F } }$ , and furthermore that $\beta ^ { \prime } ( d _ { j } ( x _ { \mathrm { d } } ) ) = \beta ^ { \prime \prime } ( d _ { j } ( x _ { \mathrm { d } } ) ) = 0$ . Hence, properties 2) and 3) of Def. 4.1 are satisfied.

Proposition 4.1. By choosing τ as

$$\tau \in (0, \min \{\bar {r} ^ {2}, \bar {r} _ {\mathrm{d}} \}), \tag {4.9}$$

where $\bar { r } , \bar { r } _ { \mathrm { d } }$ were introduced in (4.5) and (4.8), respectively, we guarantee that at each $x \in { \mathcal { F } }$ there is not more than one $j \in \bar { \mathcal { I } }$ such that $d _ { j } \leq \tau$ implying that $\beta ^ { \prime } ( d _ { j } ( x ) )$ and $\beta ^ { \prime \prime } ( d _ { j } ( x ) )$ are non-zero.

Proof. Assume that $d _ { j } ( x ) \leq \tau$ for some $j \in \mathcal { I } , x \in \mathcal { F }$ . Then, in view of (4.5), it holds that

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left\| x - c _ {j} \right\| ^ {2} <   \bar {r} ^ {2} + \bar {r} _ {o _ {j}} ^ {2} \Rightarrow \\ \left\| x - c _ {j} \right\| <   \bar {r} + \bar {r} _ {o _ {j}} = \bar {r} + r + r _ {o _ {j}} <   \left\| c _ {j} - c _ {k} \right\| \\ \end{array}
$$

$\forall k \in \mathcal { I } \backslash \{ j \}$ , and hence,
