I would like to thank my friends in Stockholm. Spyropoule and Charisi, thank you for all the weekend lunches, fikas, and drinks. Alex, thank you for being there for me when I started, for being a good friend, and for always having the answer in all my bureaucratic and application questions. Pedro, thank you for being a great colleague, roommate, and friend. Thank you for co-piloting Co4robots and for the great time in all our trips abroad. Thank you for helping me with all my hardware and software questions, and in general, for putting up with me. Thank you for trying to put a band together and motivating me to play music again. Special thanks go to Wences and Oliv for all our shared moments and to Lars for co-organizing buffet Fridays and our fruitful discussions. I would also like to thank Dimitris, Vagelis, Psilos, Christoforos and Danilo for all the basketball moments we had so far and their incompetence in guarding me (please don’t kick me out of the team). I hope Francisco is proud of us.

I would further like to thank my friends in Greece and the rest of the world. Thank you Pano, Ilia, Tonia, Thanasi, and Faidona for everything we have been through together all these years. Thank you for your support and for being great friends.

To my family, mother and brother, thank you from the bottom of my heart, for shaping my personality and always believing in me. You made me who I am and are always there for me. I am truly proud of you.

Finally, I would like to express my utmost gratitude to my life partner, Stella, for constantly inspiring and motivating me all these years. And putting up with me. Stellou, this thesis could not have been written without your limitless moral support and unconditional love and it is yours as much as it is mine.

Christos Verginis

Stockholm, Sweden

April 2020.

To my father
