# 3.1. Phase portrait and stability

Our goal is to discover the region of attraction by drawing the phase portrait. Our goal is to discover the region of attraction by drawing the phase portrait. By setting the derivative terms in Eqs. 4a and 4b to zero and assuming that the reference $r ( t ) = r$ and disturbance $d ( t ) = d$ remain constant, two equilibrium points can be obtained:

$$E _ {1} = (y _ {1}, z _ {1}) = (- \frac {d}{b}, 0), \tag {5}E _ {2} = (y _ {2}, z _ {2}) = (r, \frac {d + b r}{s r (1 - l)}). \tag {6}$$

Under the assumption that all parameters are non-negative and the signals d and r are positive, we note the following: Since $y _ { 1 }$ is negative in the equilibrium point $E _ { 1 }$ , it is a biologically infeasible state of the system. If $0 < l \leq 1$ , then both $z _ { 2 }$ and y2 are non-negative, making $E _ { 2 }$ the equilibrium point of interest. To ensure that $z _ { 2 }$ <remain finite, we first assume $0 < l < 1$ . The local stability of a system can be analyzed by calculating the eigenvalues of the matrix of < <partial derivatives in equilibrium points, known as the Jacobian matrix. The matrix of partial derivatives for system 4 and its eigenvalues are shown below.

$$
\boldsymbol {J} (y, z) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} b - s z (t) & s (l r - y (t)) \\ c z (t) & - c (r - y (t)) \end{array} \right], \tag {7}
\lambda (y, z) = \frac {1}{2} (b - s z (t) - c (r - y (t)) \pm \tag {8}\sqrt {\left(b - s z (t) - c (r - y (t))\right) ^ {2} - 4 c \left(z (t) (s r (1 - l)) - b (r - y (t))\right)}.$$

The Jacobian matrix is presented in an algebraic structure to calculate the eigenvalues easier when analyzing the local stability of the individual equilibrium point.

1) Local stability of $E _ { 1 } \mathbf { : }$ : To investigate the local stability around $E _ { 1 }$ , we computed two eigenvalues.

$$\lambda_ {1} (y _ {1}, z _ {1}) = b, \quad \lambda_ {2} (y _ {1}, z _ {1}) = - c (d + b r) / b. \tag {9}$$

As $b > 0$ and $- c ( d + b r ) / b < 0$ this equilibrium point is a saddle point.

>2) Local stability of $E _ { 2 } \mathbf { : }$ < For the equilibrium point $E _ { 2 }$ the eigenvalues are

$$\lambda_ {1} = \frac {\tau + \sqrt {\tau^ {2} - 4 \delta}}{2}, \quad \lambda_ {2} = \frac {\tau - \sqrt {\tau^ {2} - 4 \delta}}{2}, \tag {10}$$

where

$$\tau = \operatorname{trace} (J (y _ {2}, z _ {2})) = \frac {d + b l r}{r (l - 1)}, \tag {11}\delta = \det \left(J (y _ {2}, z _ {2})\right) = c (d + b r). \tag {12}$$

Three situations can happen:

1) $\tau ^ { 2 } - 4 \delta = 0 ,$   
2) $\tau ^ { 2 } - 4 \delta < 0 ,$   
3) $\tau ^ { 2 } - 4 \delta > 0 .$ .
