# F. Training the Robust DRRL Agent

Our networks (Table. III) follow the actor-critic architecture, which requires two function approximators, e.g., deep neural networks, for the value estimation, ${ \cal V } _ { \theta } ( s , a )$ and the policy distribution $\pi _ { \phi } ( \cdot | s )$ . A PPO agent (proximal policy optimization, [6]), with hyper-parameters in Table. IV, is employed to optimize our networks’ parameters.

<table><tr><td></td><td colspan="5">Value Network</td><td colspan="5">Policy Network</td></tr><tr><td>Simulator</td><td>o</td><td>L</td><td> $F_1$ </td><td> $F_2$ </td><td>v</td><td>o</td><td>L</td><td> $F_1$ </td><td> $F_2$ </td><td>μ</td></tr><tr><td>TurtuleSim</td><td>5</td><td>64</td><td>64</td><td>64</td><td>1</td><td>5</td><td>24</td><td>24</td><td>24</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Blimp</td><td>8</td><td>196</td><td>196</td><td>196</td><td>1</td><td>8</td><td>64</td><td>64</td><td>64</td><td>4</td></tr></table>

TABLE III: Network architecture. Notation L denotes the LSTM layer, F is the fully connected layer, and the numbers indicate the layer’s size. Following the suggestion of a recent work [21], we choose tanh as our activation function and initialize the last layer with small weights (e.g., 0.01) to improve the exploration.

The hybrid agent collects data by interacting with the $N _ { e n v }$ parallelized environment with randomized mixing factor q. A waypoint is sampled randomly in every episode, and it will be triggered when the robot is within a certain distance, e.g., 1[m] for the TurtleSim and 5[m] for the blimp simulator. The environment resets when the waypoint is triggered. We inject noise into the observations to increase the agent’s robustness and randomize wind disturbance and buoyancy in every episode.

The transition data are stored in the buffer with size $N _ { e p o c h }$ . When the buffer is full, the agent will start learning by querying $L / N _ { b a t c h }$ mini-batches and updating $N _ { u p d a t e }$ times for each of them or when the KL threshold $D _ { K L }$ is reached. Note that the base control can be considered part of the environment in our hybrid control scenario. The agent’s goal is to optimize the total amount of reward considering the base control’s decision.
