# A. Experiment Setup

We perform all experiments on a single computer (AMD Ryzen Threadripper 3960X, 24x 3.8GHz, NVIDIA GeForce RTX2080 Ti, 11GB). The PPO agent and base controllers, i.e., $H _ { \infty }$ and $\mathrm { P I D s } ,$ are implemented based on Pytorch[22] to facilitate vectorized computing. Both TurtleSim and the blimp simulator are implemented based on the ROS and the latter is integrated with the Gazebo SITL simulation.

<table><tr><td>Parameters</td><td>TurtleSim</td><td>Blimp</td></tr><tr><td>Time Steps per Environment  $N_{step}$ </td><td>50000</td><td>86400</td></tr><tr><td>Parallelization  $N_{env}$ </td><td>8</td><td>7</td></tr><tr><td>Episode Length  $L$ </td><td>2000</td><td>2400</td></tr><tr><td>Loop Rate [Hz]</td><td>100</td><td>10</td></tr><tr><td>Epoch Length  $N_{epoch}$ </td><td>1000</td><td>1920</td></tr><tr><td>Mini-batch Size  $N_{batch}$ </td><td>100</td><td>128</td></tr><tr><td>Update per Epoch  $N_{update}$ </td><td>20</td><td>20</td></tr><tr><td>Initial Policy Learning Rate  $\alpha_0$ </td><td> $5·10^{-5}$ </td><td> $5·10^{-5}$ </td></tr><tr><td>Initial Value Learning Rate  $\beta_0$ </td><td> $1·10^{-4}$ </td><td> $1·10^{-4}$ </td></tr><tr><td>KL Threshold  $D_{KL}$ </td><td>∞</td><td>0.03</td></tr><tr><td>Discount Factor  $\gamma$ </td><td>0.999</td><td>0.99</td></tr><tr><td>GAE Smoothing  $\lambda$ </td><td>0.95</td><td>0.9</td></tr><tr><td>Gradient Optimizer</td><td>Adam</td><td>Adam</td></tr></table>

TABLE IV: PPO hyper-parameters. The learning rate is scheduled by multiplying a constant of less than one every episode until it drops to a minimum of 1e5.

We compare our robust $H _ { \infty } – \mathbf { R } \mathbf { I }$ controller to the previous PID-RL baseline in the TurtleSim (Sec. III-B.1) and blimp simulator (Sec. III-B.2).

1) $H _ { \infty } – \mathrm { P P O }$ agent: our proposed approach   
2) PID-PPO agent: previous approach [5]. We reimplemented with a randomized mixing factor q and a servo control so that it has the chance to challenge our more difficult waypoint following task.

Note when the mixing factor is $q = 1$ we recover the base control, and $q = 0$ corresponds to the pure PPO agent. In the training phase, q is sampled randomly from different distributions while fixed in the testing phase.
