Remark 2.1 (Decentralized manner (adaptive controller)). Notice from (2.23) and (2.25) that the overall control protocol is decentralized in the sense that the agents calculate their own control signals without communicating with each other. In particular, the control gains and the desired trajectory can be transmitted off-line to the agents, which can compute the object’s pose and velocity, and hence the signals e, $\boldsymbol { v } _ { f } , \boldsymbol { e } _ { v _ { f } }$ from the inverse kinematics. For the computation of $J _ { M _ { i } }$ , each agent needs knowledge of the offsets $p _ { E _ { i } / O } ^ { E _ { i } }$ , which can also be transmitted off-line to the agents. Moreover, by also transmitting off-line to the agents the initial conditions $\hat { \vartheta } _ { o } , \hat { d } _ { o } .$ , and via the adaptation laws (2.26d), (2.26e), each agent has access to the adaptation signals $\hat { \vartheta } _ { o } ( t ) , \hat { d } _ { o } ( t ) , \forall t \in \mathbb { R } _ { \ge 0 }$ . Finally, the structure of the functions $\delta _ { i } , \delta _ { o } , Y _ { i } , Y _ { o }$ , as well as the constants $m _ { i } ^ { \star } , J _ { i } ^ { \star }$ can be also known by the agents a priori.

The following theorem summarizes the main results of this subsection.

Theorem 2.1. Consider N robotic agents rigidly grasping an object with coupled dynamics described by $( 2 . 1 4 )$ and unknown dynamic parameters. Then, under Assumptions 2.1-2.4, by applying the control protocol (2.23) with the adaptation laws (2.25), the object pose converges asymptotically to the desired pose trajectory. Moreover, all closed loop signals are bounded.

Proof. Consider the nonnegative function

$$
\begin{array}{l} V := \frac {1}{2} e _ {p} ^ {\top} e _ {p} + 2 (1 - e _ {\varphi}) + \frac {1}{2} e _ {v _ {f}} ^ {\top} \widetilde {M} e _ {v _ {f}} + \frac {1}{2} e _ {\vartheta} ^ {\top} \Gamma^ {- 1} e _ {\vartheta} + \frac {1}{2 \gamma_ {O}} e _ {\vartheta_ {O}} ^ {\top} e _ {\vartheta_ {O}} \\ + \frac {1}{2} e _ {d} ^ {\top} B _ {g} ^ {- 1} e _ {d} + \frac {1}{2 \beta_ {O}} e _ {d _ {O}} ^ {\top} e _ {d _ {O}}, \tag {2.27} \\ \end{array}
$$

By taking the derivative of V and using (2.22), (2.21), (2.18), and Lemma 2.1, we obtain
