A special and important class of autonomous robotic systems is the class of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), which can provide efficient multiagent solutions in several problems, e.g., coverage or inspection. Control of aerial vehicles in a multi-agent setting has been well studied in the related literature. The standard problem of formation control for a team of aerial vehicles is addressed in [276–281], whereas [282–286] consider leader-follower formation approaches, where the latter also treats the problem of collision avoidance with static obstacles in the environment; [287], [288, 289] and [290] employ dynamic programming, Model Predictive Control and reachable set algorithms, respectively, for inter-agent collision avoidance, which is tackled also in [291]. In [292] the cooperative evader pursuit problem is treated. Aerial vehicles and temporal logic-based planning is considered in [293], which addresses the vehicle routing problem using MTL specifications and in [294], which approaches the LTL motion planning using MILP optimization techniques, both in a centralized manner. Markov Decision Processes are used for the LTL planning in [295]. The aforementioned works, however, consider discrete agent models and do not take into account their continuous dynamics.

The discretization of a multi-agent system to an abstracted finite transition system necessitates the design of appropriate continuous-time controllers for the transition of the agents among the states of the transition system [260]. Most works in the related literature, however, including the aforementioned ones, either assume that there exist such continuous controllers or adopt single- and double-integrator models, ignoring the actual dynamics of the agents. Discretized abstractions, including design of the discrete state space and/or continuous-time controllers, have been considered in [296–300] for general systems and [301, 302] for multi-agent systems.

Another drawback of the majority of works in the related literature of temporal logic-based motion planning is the point-agent assumption (as, e.g. in [264, 268, 269]), which does not take into account potential collisions between the robotic agents. The latter is a crucial safety property in real-time scenarios, where actual vehicles are used in the motion planning framework.
