In order to prove necessity, we prove next that $G ^ { * }$ is a strict minimizer, i.e., there is no other right inverse of G that is a solution of QP. Note first that $G \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 \times 6 N }$ has full row rank, which implies that the dimension of its nullspace is $6 N - 6$ . Let $Z : = [ z _ { 1 } , \dots , z _ { 6 N - 6 } ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 \times ( 6 N - 6 ) }$ be the matrix formed by the vectors $z _ { 1 } , \dots , z _ { 6 N - 6 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 N }$ that span the nullspace of G. It follows that rank $( Z ) = 6 N - 6$ and $G Z = 0$ . Let now the matrix $H ^ { \prime } : = Z ^ { \top } H Z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( 6 N - 6 ) \times ( 6 \mathring { N } - 6 ) }$ . Since $G Z = 0 \Rightarrow Z ^ { \top } G ^ { \top } = 0$ , it follows that $H ^ { \prime } = Z ^ { \top } Z$ . Hence, rank $( H ^ { \prime } ) = \mathrm { r a n k } ( Z ) = 6 N - 6$ , which implies that $H ^ { \prime }$ is positive definite. Therefore, according to [179, Theorem 1.1], QP has a strong minimizer. □

The aforementioned theorem provides novel necessary and sufficient conditions for provable minimization of internal forces in a cooperative manipulation scheme. As discussed before, this is crucial for achieving energy-optimal cooperative manipulation, where the agents do not have to “waste” control input and hence energy resources that do not contribute to object motion. Related works that focus on deriving internal force-free distributions $G ^ { * }$ , e.g., [73, 164–166], are solely based on the inter-agent distances, neglecting the actual dynamics of the agents and the object. The expression (3.51), however, gives new insight on the topic and suggests that the dynamic terms of the system play a significant role in the arising internal forces, as also indicated by Corollary 3.5. This is further exploited by Theorem 3.4 to derive a right-inverse that depends on the inertia of the system. Note also that, as explained in [73] and illustrated in Example 3.1, the internal forces depend on the acceleration of the robotic agents and hence the incorporation of M in $G ^ { * }$ is something to be expected.

The forces h, however, are not the actual control input of the robotic agents, and hence we cannot simply set $h = h _ { \mathrm { d } } = M G ^ { \top } ( G M G ^ { \top } ) ^ { - 1 } G h _ { o , \mathrm { d } }$ for a given $h _ { O , \mathrm { d } }$ . Therefore, we design next a standard inverse-dynamics control algorithm controller that guarantees tracking of a desired trajectory by the object center of mass while provably achieving regulation of the internal forces to zero.
