In the second part of the thesis, we develop control schemes for the continuous coordination of multi-agent complex systems with uncertain dynamics. We first study the motion planning problem and propose novel adaptive control schemes for the collision-free navigation of single- and multi-agent spherical systems in obstacle-cluttered environments. Next, we focus on the leader-follower coordination problem of spherical multi-agent systems. More specifically, we design a robust adaptive decentralized control scheme for the successful navigation of a designated leader to a predefined point, while guaranteeing collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance properties. Finally, we design a closed-form robust barrier function-based control protocol for the collision avoidance of multiple 3D ellipsoidal agents.

The third part of the thesis is focused on the planning and control of multi-agent and multi-agent-object systems subject to complex tasks expressed as temporal logic formulas. We tackle first the case of local independent tasks for multi-agent systems, and by using previous results on multi-agent constrained navigation, we design a discrete abstraction of the agents’ motion in the workspace and synthesize decentralized control policies that satisfy the agents’ specifications. Next, in addition to the robotic agents, we take into account complex tasks to be satisfied by unactuated objects. We design a discrete abstraction that simulates the behavior of the agents and the objects in the workspace and we synthesize controllers for the agents that take into account both theirs and the objects’ specifications.
