DAG to feedforward NN. Algorithm 1 creates a DAG-like structure where nodes can be arranged in layers (corresponding to the distance from the leaf nodes). However, this is strictly not the structure of a feed-forward neural network as some layers have connections that are skipped. To make the structure strictly adhere to layer-by-layer computation, whenever an (i, k) node is required in a deeper layer, we can add neurons (corresponding to an identity function) that copy the value of the (i, k) node to the next layer. Observe that the addition of these additional neurons does not increase the depth of the network. Thus, each layer in our STL2NN has a mixture of ReLU-activation neurons and neurons with linear (identity) activations. We note that the position of these neurons corresponing to the linear and ReLU activations can be separated through a process of modifying the weight matrices for each layer. This separation of the linear and ReLU layers is crucial in downstream verification algorithms. We call this neural network with redundant linear activations and reordered neurons as STL2NN. We codify the argument for the depth of STL2NN in Lemma 2. The proof follows from our construction of STL2NN in Algorithm 1.

Lemma 2. Given a STL formula $\varphi ,$ the depth of STL2NN increases logarithmically with the length of the trajectory, $\sigma _ { \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } }$ and linearly in the size of the formula.

Theorem 1. Given the STL formula, $\varphi ,$ the controller, $\mathbf { u } _ { k } = \boldsymbol { \eta } ( \mathbf { s } _ { k } )$ and the resultant trajectory σs0, $\sigma _ { \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } }$

$$\rho (\varphi , \sigma_ {\mathbf {s} _ {0}}, 0) \geq 0 \iff \text { STL2NN } (\sigma_ {\mathbf {s} _ {0}}) \geq 0$$

Lemma 2 shows, given a complex STL specification, although the width of STL2NN can be high, its depth is logarithmic in the size of the trajectory,
