Remark 2.6 (Control Input Bounds). The aforementioned analysis of the Prescribed Performance Control methodology reveals the derivation of bounds for the velocity $v _ { i }$ and control input $u _ { i }$ of each agent. Note the explicit bounds $\bar { v } _ { i }$ and $\bar { u } _ { i }$ for $v _ { i }$ and $u _ { i }$ (see (2.46), (2.50)), respectively, which depend on the control gains, the bounds of the dynamic terms, the desired trajectory, and the performance functions. Therefore, given desired bounds for the agents’ velocity $\bar { v } _ { i , b }$ and input $\bar { u } _ { i , b }$ (derived from bounds on the joint velocities and torques $\dot { q } _ { i } , \tau _ { i }$ , respectively) and that the upper bounds of the dynamic terms are known, we can tune appropriately the control gain $g _ { s } , g _ { v }$ as well as the parameters $\rho _ { s _ { k } , 0 } , \rho _ { v _ { k } , 0 } , \rho _ { s _ { k } , \infty } , \rho _ { v _ { k } , \infty } , l _ { s _ { k } } , l _ { v _ { k } }$ in order to achieve $\bar { v } _ { i } \leq \bar { v } _ { i , b } , \bar { u } _ { i } \leq \bar { u } _ { i , b } , \forall i \in \mathcal { N }$ . It is also worth noting that the selection of the control gains $g _ { s } , g _ { v }$ affects the evolution of the errors $e _ { s } , e _ { v }$ inside the corresponding performance envelopes.

Remark 2.7 (Internal forces). The internal forces were proven, in [73], to be regulated to zero using the distribution matrix $J _ { M _ { i } }$ from (2.24). That result, however, did not take into account the actual dynamic parameters of the robots. In the next chapter we analyze the internal forces in rigid cooperative manipulation and provide conditions that achieve their regulation to zero.
