In Fig. $2 \mathrm { c } .$ , we choose $b = 0 . 6 ,$ , which is twice as large as the original one, and it alters the equilibrium points to $E _ { 1 } = ( - 0 . 0 1 7 , 0 )$ and $E _ { 2 } = ( 1 1 . 0 0 0 , 8 . 0 1 2 )$ , with eigenvalues

$$\lambda (E _ {1}) = \{0. 6, - 2 2. 0 3 3 \}, \quad \lambda (E _ {2}) = \{- 0. 7 0 1 + 3. 5 6 8 i, - 0. 7 0 1 - 3. 5 6 8 i \}. \tag {51}$$

Since $E _ { 2 }$ is a stable equilibrium point, all trajectories in its region of attraction approach it.

Finally, if we multiply c by two $( c = 4 )$ , we get the equilibrium points $E _ { 1 } = ( - 0 . 0 3 3 , 0 )$ and $E _ { 2 } = ( 1 1 . 0 0 0 , 4 . 0 1 2 )$ in Fig. 2d, with eigenvalues

$$\lambda (E _ {1}) = \{0. 3 0 0, - 4 4. 1 3 3 \}, \quad \lambda (E _ {2}) = \{- 0. 3 5 1 + 3. 6 2 2 i, - 0. 3 5 1 - 3. 6 2 2 i \}. \tag {52}$$

All trajectories in the region of attraction approach $E _ { 2 }$ as it is a stable equilibrium point.

After verifying the stability of the system, we investigated the P-invariance property under different situations. In all Figs. 3, 4 and $5 ~ r ( t )$ and $d ( t )$ are the same and show the time-varying step-like response of the reference input r(t) and disturbance $d ( t )$ These inputs were also subject to additional noise from a standard normal distribution. We tested different combinations of the reference $r ( t )$ and disturbance $d ( t )$ to exemplify the P-invariance property under different scenarios. Both the input $r ( t )$ and the disturbance $d ( t )$ began with the starting values defined at 47 and remained constant from time 0 until time 50. The input r(t) changes while disturbance $d ( t )$ remains constant when time is between 50 and 150. Both the input r(t) and disturbance d(t) remain constant between time 150 and 200. In the time interval (200 300), the disturbance d(t) changes while the input r(t) remains constant. When time is between ,(300 350), both the input r(t) and disturbance d(t) change. Finally, both converge to a new amount $( r = 1 3 . 7 5 , d = 5 )$ ,and remain constant in the time interval (350 400).

,The purple trajectories in Fig. 2 illustrates the starting position in the Figs. 3, 4 and 5. As a result, we are in a stable situation at the start, however it may take some time to achieve stability. In all Figs. 3, 4 and 5 z(t) and y(t) show the responses to the input and disturbance by r(t) and d(t). The green dashed line represents the residual of changes in y(t), which remains zero when s changes, but is non-zero when b or c changes. This is a consequence of the system having P-invariance for parameter s, but not for b and c.
