# REFERENCES

Almeida, J., Silvestre, C., and Pascoal, A.M.
(2014).
Self-Triggered Output Feedback Control of Linear Plants in the Presence of Unknown Disturbances.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 59(11), 3040–3045.
Anta, A.
and Tabuada, P.
(2010).
To Sample or not to Sample: Self-Triggered Control for Nonlinear Systems.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 55(9), 2030–2042.
Benedetto, M.D.D., Gennaro, S.D., and D’Innocenzo, A.
(2013).
Digital self-triggered robust control of nonlinear systems.
Int.
Journal of Control, 86(9), 1664–1672.
Bernard, P., Andrieu, V., and Astolfi, D.
(2022).
Observer design for continuous-time dynamical systems.
Annual Reviews in Control, 53, 224–248.
Carnevale, D., Teel, A.R., and Neˇsi´c, D.
(2007).
A Lyapunov Proof of an Improved Maximum Allowable Transfer Interval for Networked Control Systems.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 52(5), 892–897.
de Albuquerque Gleizer, G.
and Mazo, M.
(2020).
Selftriggered output-feedback control of LTI systems subject to disturbances and noise.
Automatica, 120, 109129.
Delimpaltadakis, G.
and Mazo, M.
(2020).
Isochronous Partitions for Region-Based Self-Triggered Control.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 66(3), 1160–1173.
Delimpaltadakis, G.
and Mazo, M.
(2021).
Region-Based Self-Triggered Control for Perturbed and Uncertain Nonlinear Systems.
IEEE Trans.
Control of Network Systems, 8(2), 757–768.
Goebel, R.
and Teel, A.R.
(2006).
Solutions to hybrid inclusions via set and graphical convergence with stability theory applications.
Automatica, 42(4), 573–587.
Heemels, W.P.M.H., Johansson, K.H., and Tabuada, P.
(2012).
An introduction to event-triggered and selftriggered control.
In Proc.
51st IEEE Conf.
Decision Control, 3270–3285.
Hertneck, M.
and Allg¨ower, F.
(2021).
Robust dynamic self-triggered control for nonlinear systems using hybrid lyapunov functions.
arXiv:2111.04347, under review.
Liu, T.
and Jiang, Z.
(2015).
A Small-Gain Approach to Robust Event-Triggered Control of Nonlinear Systems.
IEEE Trans.
on Autom.
Control, 60(8), 2072–2085.
Mazo, M., Anta, A., and Tabuada, P.
(2009).
On selftriggered control for linear systems: Guarantees and complexity.
In European Control Conf., 3767–3772.
Neˇsi´c, D., Teel, A.R., and Carnevale, D.
(2009).
Explicit Computation of the Sampling Period in Emulation of Controllers for Nonlinear Sampled-Data Systems.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 54(3), 619–624.
