4.1 A 2D example of the workspace $\bar { \mathcal W }$ with 50 obstacles $\bar { \mathcal { O } } _ { j } , j \in$ $\{ 1 , \ldots , 5 0 \}$ .
The blue asterisks indicate potential initial configurations of the robot and the obstacles have been enlarged with the robot radius r.
The red asterisk indicates a potential goal robot position.
.
.
.
.
.
180   
4.2 A workspace with two star-shaped obstacles.
The blue asterisk indicates the center of the robot and the obstacles have been enlarged with the robot radius r through the Minkowski sum.
The red asterisk indicates a potential goal robot position.
.
.
.
.
190   
4.3 The resulting trajectories $x ( t ) , t \in [ 0 , 1 0 0 ]$ seconds, from the initial points $- ( 5 , 5 ) , ( - 6 , 4 .
5 )$ , and (3.5, 7) to the destination (5, 5).
Left: without any disturbances.
Right: with bounded disturbance $d ( x , v , t )$ .
.
.
.
203   
4.4 Left: The resulting input signals $u ( t ) = ( u _ { \mathsf { x } } ( t ) , u _ { \mathsf { y } } ( t ) ) , t \in [ 0 , 1 0 0 ]$ seconds, for the 2D trajectories of Fig.
4.3.
Right: The resulting adaptation signals αˆ(t), mˆ (t), t [0, 100] seconds, for the 2D trajectories of Fig.
4.3.
The extra subscript d corresponds to the model where a bounded disturbance vector $d ( x , v , t )$ was included.
204   
4.5 The resulting trajectories x(t), $t \in [ 0 , 1 0 0 ]$ seconds, from the initial points $- ( 5 , 5 ) , ( - 6 , 4 .
5 )$ , and (3.5, 7) to the destination (5, 5).
.
.
.
205   
4.6 Left: The resulting input signals $u ( t ) = ( u _ { \mathsf { x } } ( t ) , u _ { \mathsf { y } } ( t ) , u _ { \mathsf { z } } ( t ) ) , t \in$ [0, 100] seconds, for the 3D trajectories of Fig.
4.5.
Right: The resulting adaptation signals $\hat { \alpha } ( t ) , \hat { m } ( t ) , t \in [ 0 , 1 0 0 ]$ seconds, for the 3D trajectories of Fig.
4.5.
.
205   
4.7 Left: The resulting trajectory $x ( t ) , t \in [ 0 , 5 0 0 ]$ seconds, from the initial points (5, 5) to the destination (3, 4), in the 2D star world workspace.
Right: The respective trajectory in the transformed sphere world.
.
.
207   
4.8 The input and adaptations signals $u ( t ) , \hat { \alpha } ( t ) , \hat { m } ( t )$ , for the 2D (a) and 3D (b) star world workspaces, for [0, 500] and [0, 200] seconds, respectively.
.
.
.
.
207   
4.9 Left: The resulting trajectory $x ( t ) , t \in [ 0 , 2 0 0 ]$ seconds, from the initial points (4, 4, 2) to the destination (1, 2, 2), in the 3D star world workspace.
Right: The respective trajectory in the transformed sphere world.
.
.
.
208   
4.10 The initial configurations of the multi-agent scenario.
