# Introduction

The technological developments have been increasing exponentially during the last century, with an evident peak in the last few decades. The recent need for development of smart cities (including autonomy in industrial buildings, houses, highways, as well as automated rescue missions) calls for wider deployment of robots that must coordinate with each other to achieve a specific task. Additionally, noteworthy is the increasing evolution of wireless communication technology that results in the low-cost massive development of (internal and external) sensor devices. Along with the incapability of the corresponding computing units to process very large amounts of data in small amounts of time, this has given rise to a special case of systems that consist of multiple robots, namely multi-agent systems. Multi-agent systems consist of agents/robots that rely solely on local sensor information with respect to their neighboring robots to determine their actions, which is often called decentralized control.

During the last decade, decentralized control of multi-agent systems has gained a significant amount of attention due to the great variety of its applications, including multi-robot systems, transportation, multi-point surveillance and biological systems. The main focus of multi-agent systems is the design of distributed control protocols in order to achieve global tasks, such as consensus [1–5], in which all the agents are required to converge to a specific point, and formation [6, 7], in which all the agents aim to form a predefined geometric shape. At the same time, the agents might need to fulfill certain transient properties, such as network connectivity [8–10] and/or collision avoidance [11].

A special case of multi-agent systems is cooperative robotic manipulators. In particular, when it comes to object manipulation/transportation, large/heavy payloads as well as complex maneuvers necessitate the deployment of more than one robot. The most common tasks consist of pick-and-place tasks and cooperative object transportation, while satisfying certain properties, such as collision- and singularity-avoidance.
