as shown in Fig. 4.14 via straight black lines. The unknown parameters $\theta _ { i }$ concerned the UAVs’ mass and the gravity constant. The control gains and parameters were set as $\gamma _ { e } = 0 . 7 , k _ { i } = 5 , \forall i \in \{ 2 , \dots , 6 \}$ , and $\gamma _ { i , \theta } =$ 0.1, γi,d = 0.01, γi,f = 0.1, $k _ { v _ { i } } ~ = ~ 2$ , i 1, . . . , 6 . The simulation results are shown in Figs. 4.15-4.17 for $t \in [ 0 , 2 7 7 ] \ \mathrm { s } .$ . More specifically, Fig. 4.15 shows (a) the evolution of the signal $\| s _ { e } ( t ) \| + \| e _ { v _ { 1 } } ( t ) \|$ , which converges to zero for each navigation objective, (b) the evolution of the product $\begin{array} { r } { \prod _ { k \in \bar { \mathcal { K } } } \frac { 1 } { \beta _ { \mathfrak { c } , k } \left( \iota _ { k } ( t ) \right) } \prod _ { l \in \mathcal { K } _ { 0 } } \frac { 1 } { \beta _ { \mathfrak { n } , l } \left( \nu _ { l } ( t ) \right) } } \end{array}$ 1 , which remains bounded, verifying thus the collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance properties, and (c) the evolution of the products of the adaptation signals $\textstyle \prod _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , 6 \} } \| \hat { \theta } _ { i } ( t ) \|$ , $\begin{array} { r } { \prod _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , 6 \} } \hat { d } _ { b _ { i } } ( t ) , \prod _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , 6 \} } \hat { \alpha } _ { i } ( t ) } \end{array}$ , which remain bounded, verifying thus the boundedness of the individual signals. Moreover, Fig. 4.16 depicts the evolution of the multi-agent system along the 4 navigation objectives, with the connectivity of ${ \mathcal { E } } _ { 0 }$ (straight black lines), and Fig. 4.17 shows the control inputs of the UAVs. The simulations were carried out in a ROS-Python interface of an i7-8750H laptop computer with 12 cores at 2.2GHz and 16GB of RAM and an illustrating video can be found in https: //youtu.be/bzzXC-v2hEM.
