# Formation Control and Rigid Cooperative Manipulation

As discussed in Chapter 1, an important problem associated with multi-agent coordination is formation control. On one hand, formation specifications can be imposed by a higher level planner associated with temporal tasks. Moreover, as we show here, a particular instance of multi-agent formations, namely rigid formation, is tightly associated to rigid cooperative manipulation presented in the previous chapter. More specifically, this chapter addresses the following two topics.

Firstly, it deals with the problem of distance- and orientation-based formation control of a class of second-order nonlinear multi-agent systems in SE(3), under static and undirected communication topologies. More specifically, we design a decentralized model-free control protocol in the sense that each agent uses only local information from its neighbors to calculate its own control signal, without incorporating any knowledge of the model nonlinearities and exogenous disturbances. Moreover, the transient and steady-state response is solely determined by certain designer-specified performance functions and is fully decoupled by the agents’ dynamic model, the control gain selection, the underlying graph topology as well as the initial conditions. Additionally, by introducing certain inter-agent distance constraints, we guarantee collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance between neighboring agents.

Secondly, we introduce a new notion of distance rigidity, namely distanceand bearing-rigidity in SE(3), and we connect it with rigid cooperative manipulation. More specifically, the nodes of a general rigid framework are associated to the robotic agents of rigid cooperative manipulation schemes and the object-agent interaction forces are expressed by using the rigidity matrix of the graph formed by the robots, which encodes the infinitesimal rigid body motions of the system. Moreover, we show that the associated cooperative manipulation grasp matrix is related to the rigidity matrix via a range-nullspace relation, based on which we provide novel results on the relation between the arising interaction and internal forces and consequently on the energy-optimal force distribution on a cooperative manipulation system.
