# Chapter 5

This chapter addresses the motion planning problem for multi-agent and multi-agent-object systems under high level complex tasks expressed as temporal logic formulas. We first focus on local temporal logic specifications for each agent individually. We use previous results to derive well-defined discrete abstractions based on pre-defined regions of interest in the workspace, possibly by accounting for collision and connectivity constraints. We use then standard formal verification techniques to derive paths that satisfy the independent tasks. Next, apart from the agents, we consider that unactuated objects have to satisfy certain temporal logic tasks. The robotic agents are now responsible for satisfying the objects’ tasks, except for their own. We use again previous results to derive discrete abstractions of the coupled system’s motion, based on both regions of interest as well as a complete workspace partition. We then apply the same formal verification-based strategy to obtain discrete paths that satisfy the agents’ and the object’s goals. These results are based on [25–30]:

• C. K. Verginis, Z. Xu and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Decentralized motion planning with collision avoidance for a team of UAVs under high level goals”, IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 781-787, Singapore, 2017.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Robust decentralized abstractions for multiple mobile manipulators”, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 2222-2227, Melbourne, Australia, 2017.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Distributed Cooperative Manipulation under Timed Temporal Specifications”, American Control Conference (ACC), pp. 1358-1363, Seattle, USA, 2017.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Timed abstractions for distributed cooperative manipulation”, Autonomous Robots, 42, no. 4 (2018): 781-799.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Multi-agent motion planning and object transportation under high level goals”, IFAC-PapersOnLine, 50(1), pp. 15816-15821, Toulouse, France, 2017.   
• C. K. Verginis, and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Motion and cooperative transportation planning for multi-agent systems under temporal logic

formulas”, BOSCH AI Conference, 2018.

Arxiv Link: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.01579.pdf.
