# 2.2.5 Discussion

In view of the aforementioned results, we mention some worth-noting differences between the two control schemes. Firstly, note that the PPC methodology allows for exponential convergence of the errors to the set defined by the values $\rho _ { s _ { k } , \infty } , \rho _ { v _ { k } , \infty } ,$ , achieving predefined transient and steady-state performance, without the need to resort to tuning of the control gains. The adaptive quaternion-feedback methodology, however, can only guarantee that the errors converge asymptotically to zero as $t \to \infty$ . This is verified by the simulation results, where the error trajectories $e _ { p } ( t ) , e _ { \zeta } ( t )$ and $e _ { v } ( t )$ show an oscillatory behavior. Improvement of such performance (in terms of overshoot, rise, and settling time) would require appropriate gain tuning. Secondly, note that, as shown in the simulations section, the quaternionfeedback methodology allows for trajectories where the pitch angle of the object $\left( \theta _ { o } \right)$ can be 90 degrees, in contrast to the PPC methodology, where that configuration is ill-posed, since the matrix $J _ { o } ( \eta _ { o } )$ is not defined. Finally, the adaptive quaternion-feedback methodology can be considered less robust to modeling uncertainties in real-time scenarios, since it accounts only for parametric uncertaintes (the unknown terms $\vartheta _ { i } , \vartheta _ { o } , d _ { i } , d _ { o } )$ , assuming a known structure of the dynamic terms. The PPC methodology, however, does not require any information of the structure or the parameters of the dynamic model (note that the only requirements are the positive definiteness of the coupled inertia matrix, the locally Lipschitz and continuity properties of the dynamic terms and the boundedness - with respect to time - of the disturbances $d _ { i } , d _ { o } )$ . In that sense, one would expect the PPC methodology to perform better in real-time experiments, where unmodeled dynamics are involved. The fact, however, that PPC is a control scheme that does not contain any information of the model structure makes it more difficult to tune (in terms of gain tuning) in order to achieve robot velocities and torques that respect specific bounds, especially when the bounds of the dynamic terms are unknown. This has been noticed during both simulations and experiments.
