Furthermore, for collaborative manipulation using rolling contacts, it is critical to ensure the object does not slip. This is neglected by most of the aforementioned approaches, which assume either rigid grasps or simply no slip without guarantees. Methods of ensuring slip prevention are developed typically by solving an optimization problem online [99, 104, 108]. However, [99, 108] neglect the dynamics of the system, which may perturb the system and cause slip. The approach in [104] uses a conservative bound on the dynamics, which overcompensates the amount of force required to hold the object. Finally, most related works consider accurate knowledge of the object center of mass, which can be difficult to obtain in practice, especially in cases of complicated object shapes.

The contribution of this chapter consists of the following: Firstly, we introduce two novel close-form nonlinear control protocols for the trajectory tracking by the center of mass of an object that is rigidly grasped by N robotic agents, without using force/torque measurements at the grasping points. In particular, we develop first a decentralized control scheme that combines (i) adaptation laws to compensate for external disturbances and uncertainties of the agents’ and the object’s dynamic parameters, with (ii) quaternion modeling of the object’s orientation that avoids undesired representation singularities. Then, we propose a decentralized model-free control scheme that guarantees predefined transient and steady-state performance for the object’s center of mass.

Secondly, we use NMPC to design control inputs for the navigation of the object to a final pose, while avoiding inter-agent collisions as well as collisions with obstacles. Moreover, we take into account constraints that emanate from control input saturation as well kinematic and representation singularities. We propose both a centralized and a decentralized methodology.
