Motivated by the above discussion, this thesis aims at solving the problem of decentralized motion- and task-planning of uncertain multi-agent and multi-agent-object systems under complex task specifications by integrating tools from the computer science and automatic control fields. The main contributions lie in the robust abstraction of the continuous coupled objectagents dynamics into a discrete representation of the system (transition systems) and the application of formal verification methodologies towards the satisfaction of temporal logic formulas. More specifically, we break down the problem into three main subproblems. Motivated by the need of transition design for unactuated objects, we consider first the problem of cooperative object manipulation. We design control protocols for the centralized and decentralized cooperative manipulation of an object grasped by multiple robotic agents by means of rigid as well as rolling contacts, possibly subject to model uncertainties. Moreover, we study the relation of rigid cooperative manipulation with rigid formation control, and design a novel control algorithm for the latter problem. Secondly, again in view of transition design for multi-agent systems, we develop numerous control protocols for the coordination of multi-agent systems, including multi-agent navigation and leader-follower coordination, subject to collision and connectivity constraints as well as model uncertainties. The third part draws from the previous ones to design well defined discrete abstractions for multi-agent and multi-agent-objects systems. In that way, we allow the expression of complex desired tasks as temporal logic specifications, for which we provide controller synthesis. Finally, we study some problems for single-agent setups, including timed temporal specifications in an obstacle-cluttered environment, integration of intelligent control protocols with sampling-based motion planning algorithms for complex uncertain systems, as well as asymptotic stability properties with funnel constraint satisfaction.

The work developed in this thesis was supported by the research projects “H2020 Research and Innovation Programme” under the Grant Agreements No. 644128 (AEROWORKS) and No. 731869 (Co4Robots), the0 H2020 ERC Starting Grant BUCOPHSYS, the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, the Swedish Research Council (VR), and the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research. The next section presents the outline of this thesis.
