Quantitative Semantics of STL. The Boolean semantics of STL define what it means for a trajectory to satisfy an STL formula. A detailed description of the Boolean semantics can be found in [33]. The quantitative semantics of STL define the signed distance of the trajectory from the set of traces satisfying or violating the formula. This signed distance is called the robustness value. There are a number of ways to define the quantitative semantics of STL [8], [14], [37], [1]; in this paper, we focus on the semantics from [8] that we reproduce below. The robustness value $\rho \big ( \varphi , \sigma _ { \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } } , k \big )$ of an STL formula ϕ over a trajectory $\sigma _ { \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } }$ at time k can be defined recursively as follows. For brevity, we omit the trajectory from the notation as it is obvious from the context.

$$
\begin{array}{l l} \varphi & \rho (\varphi , k) \\ \hline \mu (\mathbf {s}) \geq 0 & \mu (\mathbf {s} _ {k}) \\ \varphi_ {1} \wedge \varphi_ {2} & \min (\rho (\varphi_ {1}, k), \rho (\varphi_ {2}, k)) \\ \varphi_ {1} \vee \varphi_ {2} & \max (\rho (\varphi_ {1}, k), \rho (\varphi_ {2}, k)) \\ \mathbf {G} _ {[ a, b ]} \psi & \min _ {k ^ {\prime} \in [ k + a, k + b ]} \rho (\psi , k) \\ \mathbf {F} _ {[ a, b ]} \psi & \max _ {k ^ {\prime} \in [ k + a, k + b ]} \rho (\psi , k) \\ \varphi_ {1} \mathbf {U} _ {[ a, b ]} \varphi_ {2} & \max _ {k ^ {\prime} \in [ k + a, k + b ]} \left(\min \binom{\rho (\varphi_ {2}, k ^ {\prime}),}{\min _ {k ^ {\prime \prime} \in [ k, k ^ {\prime})} \rho (\varphi_ {1}, k ^ {\prime \prime})}\right) \\ \varphi_ {1} \mathbf {R} _ {[ a, b ]} \varphi_ {2} & \min _ {k ^ {\prime} \in [ k + a, k + b ]} \left(\max \binom{\rho (\varphi_ {1}, k ^ {\prime}),}{\max _ {k ^ {\prime \prime} \in [ k, k ^ {\prime} ]} \rho (\varphi_ {2}, k ^ {\prime \prime})}\right) \end{array} \tag {3}
$$

We note that if $\rho ( \varphi , k ) > 0$ the STL formula $\varphi$ is satisfied at time k (from [14]).

Problem Definition. The STL verification problem can be formally stated as follows: Given an NNCS as shown in (1), a set of initial conditions $\mathcal { T } ,$ and a bounded horizon STL formula $\varphi$ with $\mathsf { H } ( \varphi ) = K$ , show that:

$$\forall \mathbf {s} _ {0} \in \mathcal {I}: \rho (\varphi , \sigma_ {\mathbf {s} _ {0}}, 0) > 0, \tag {4}$$

where, the time horizon for $\sigma _ { \mathbf { s } _ { 0 } }$ is $K$ .
