The obstacles are depicted as filled red disks whereas the agents as circles.
The destinations are shown with asterisk.
.
208   
4.11 The resulting signals $\lVert x _ { i } ( t ) - x _ { \mathrm { d } _ { i } } \rVert , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } .$ , shown to converge to zero for the multi-agent scenario.
.
209   
4.12 The resulting trajectories of the agents $x _ { i } ( t )$ in the 2D workspace, $\forall i \in N , t \in [ 0 , 8 7 0 ]$ seconds, for the multi-agent scenario.
.
.
.
.
209

4.13 The signal $\beta _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ( t )$ , which stays strictly positive, for all $t \in [ 0 , 8 7 0 ]$ , implying that inter-agent collisions and agent-obstacle collisions are avoided. . 210

4.14 The initial positions of the 6 UAVs, along with the desired leader goals $x _ { \mathrm { d } , k } , k \in \left\{ 1 , \ldots , 4 \right\}$ , and the edge set 0. . . . . . . 218

4.15 (a): The leader signal $\| s _ { e } ( t ) \| + \| e _ { v _ { 1 } } ( t ) \|$ , which converges to zero for every navigation objective; (b) the product Qk∈K¯ 1β (ι (t)) $\begin{array} { r } { \prod _ { k \in \bar { \mathcal { K } } } \frac { 1 } { \beta _ { \mathfrak { c } , k } \left( \iota _ { k } \left( t \right) \right) } } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { \prod _ { l \in \mathcal { K } _ { 0 } } \frac { 1 } { \beta _ { \mathfrak { n } , l } \left( \nu _ { l } ( t ) \right) } } \end{array}$ , which remains bounded, proving thus the collision and connectivity properties (the zero values stem from the computer’s lower numerical limits); (c) the adaptation signals $\begin{array} { r } { \prod _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , 6 \} } \| \hat { \theta } _ { i } ( t ) \| , \prod _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , 6 \} } \hat { d } _ { b _ { i } } ( t ) , \prod _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , 6 \} } \hat { \alpha } _ { i } ( t ) } \end{array}$ , which remain bounded, $\forall t \in [ 0 , 2 7 7 ] \ \mathrm { s } .$ . . 218

4.16 The motion of the multi-agent system as the leader navigates to $x _ { \mathrm { d } , 1 } ~ \mathrm { ( a ) } , ~ . ~ . ~ . , x _ { \mathrm { d } , 4 } ~ \mathrm { ( d ) }$ . The connectivity of ${ \mathcal { E } } _ { 0 }$ is also pictured via straight lines. . . . 220

4.17 The resulting control inputs $u _ { i } ( t ) , i \in \{ 1 , \ldots , 6 \} , t \in [ 0 , 2 7 7 ] \ \mathrm { s } .$ . . 221

4.18 Ellipsoid approximation of (a) the rigid links of a robotic manipulator, (b) a mobile robot (top and front view). . . . . 221

4.19 The evolution of agent trajectories $\forall t \in [ 0 , 2 0 ]$ sec. . . . . . . . . 230
