Secondly, we propose a decentralized control protocol for the coordination of a multi-agent system with 2nd order uncertain Lagrangian dynamics, subject to collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance. In particular, we consider that a leader agent has to navigate to a desired pose, inter-agent collisions must be avoided, and some of the initially connected agents have to remain connected. We are mainly motivated by cases where a cooperative task (e.g., cooperative pick-and-place tasks) is assigned to a multi-agent system, but the details are given only to a leader agent, which has to lead the entire team along the desired task. By using certain properties of the incidence matrix, we avoid issues of local minima and we relax the assumptions on the connectivity of the graph (as opposed to, e.g., [232, 236]) as well as the access of the leader’s velocity by the followers. Moreover, we consider uncertain terms and unknown external disturbances in the dynamic model, which we cope with by using adaptive and discontinuous control laws.

Finally, we design smooth closed-form barrier functions for the collision avoidance of ellipsoidal agents. By employing results from the computer graphics field, we derive a novel closed-form expression that represents a distance metric of two ellipsoids in 3D space. Moreover, we use the latter to design a control protocol that guarantees the collision avoidance of a multi-agent system that aims to achieve a primary objective, subject to uncertain 2nd-order Lagrangian dynamics. The derived control law is (i) decentralized, in the sense that each agent calculates its control signal based on local information, (ii) discontinuous and adaptive, in order to compensate for the uncertainties and external disturbances.
