# 1. INTRODUCTION

For networked control systems (NCS) with limited communication bandwidth, event-triggered control (ETC) and self-triggered control (STC) have emerged as key techniques to trade-off control performance and the usage of communication resources. In ETC, a state-dependent trigger rule is monitored continuously and a transmission is triggered as soon as the trigger rule is violated. In STC, the controller determines at each transmission time based on available state information when the next transmission should take place.

In Mazo et al. (2009); Anta and Tabuada (2010), it was demonstrated that the network load for NCS can be significantly reduced by STC compared to classical periodic sampling. For linear systems, a wide variety of STC strategies has been proposed, see, e.g., Heemels et al. (2012) and the references therein. For nonlinear systems, a smaller but increasing number of approaches is available. In Benedetto et al. (2013); Tiberi and Johansson (2013); Theodosis and Dimarogonas (2018), Lipschitz continuity properties are exploited to determine transmission times such that a decrease of a Lyapunov function can be guaranteed. Small gain techniques are used in Tolic et al. (2012); Liu and Jiang (2015). In Anta and Tabuada (2010); Delimpaltadakis and Mazo (2020, 2021), isochroneity properties of homogeneous systems are leveraged. In Hertneck and Allg¨ower (2021), hybrid Lyapunov functions and a dynamic variable that encodes the past system behavior are used to determine transmission times.

Whilst there are several approaches for the design of STC mechanisms for linear systems with output feedback regulators, see, e.g., Almeida et al. (2014); de Albuquerque Gleizer and Mazo (2020), the aforementioned STC approaches for nonlinear systems all require information about the full plant state and are thus limited to state feedback. However, in most practical scenarios only a lower dimensional output can be used for control.
