# Continuous Coordination of Multi-Agent Systems

As discussed in Chapter 1, in order to be able to express complex tasks as temporal logic formulas, we need to have well-defined discrete representations of the continuous multi-agent system. Intuitively, this implies an appropriate discretization of the multi-agent state space, as well as the design of control schemes to navigate the agents among the points of this discretization. At the same time and since we are mainly interested in physical robotic agents, we need to guarantee safe multi-agent behavior, i.e., guarantee collision avoidance among the robotic agents and with potential workspace obstacles. On the same vein, we are interested in developing decentralized schemes, where the agents have local feedback only with respect to the neighbors. Therefore, multi-agent connectivity maintenance is another critical property we impose. Finally, as mentioned before, real robotic agents’ equations of motion cannot be accurately known (model uncertainties) and are also subject to external disturbances. Hence, the control design needs to be robust and compensate appropriately for this partial model information (see the previous chapters, where adaptive control and PPC were used).

Motivated by the above, this chapter presents continuous control schemes for the coordination of multi-agent robotic systems. More specifically, we address the following three problems. Firstly, we develop an algorithm for the single- as well as multi-agent go-to-goal and collision-avoidance problem for robotic agents with uncertain dynamics. Secondly, we develop a novel leader-follower scheme for the navigation of a leader to a predefined point subject to model uncertainties and collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance constraints. Since the aforementioned algorithms consider mainly spherical robotic agents, we finally introduce a control scheme that guarantees collision avoidance between robotic agents of ellipsoidal shape.
