In this chapter, we propose a two-layer framework that integrates “intelligent” feedback control protocols with geometric motion planning for high-dimensional Lagrangian holonomic systems (e.g., robotic manipulators).
Firstly, motivated by the difficulty of measuring accurately the robotic system’s dynamical parameters (like masses, and moments of inertia) as well as potential external disturbances, we design a feedback control scheme that does not use any information on these parameters/disturbances.
The control scheme is a variation of standard adaptive control design, and aims at achieving tracking of a given trajectory for the robot, which is assumed to obey 2nd-order dynamics.
The tracking of the trajectory is achieved within certain bounds that stem from the aforementioned uncertainties/disturbances.
These bounds create an implicit funnel around the trajectory, which can be further shrunk by appropriate tuning of the control parameters, the latter being a standard procedure in adaptive control design.
This funnel is then incorporated in a RRT-like algorithm, which outputs a path connecting an initial configuration to the goal.
The construction of the RRT and the employed control protocol guarantee that the robot will follow the derived path without colliding with the workspace obstacles.
In that way, by using appropriate feedback control, the proposed methodology “relieves” the sampling-based motion planner of the robot dynamics and their uncertainties, hence the problem of constructing a path becomes purely geometrical.
The motion planner relies only on the performance of the control layer, encoded in the aforementioned bounds.
Similar ideas were pursued in [334] and [335];
[334], however, just provides a general idea of interfacing the planning and control layers, without elaborating on a particular systematic control technique, while [335] considers mainly predictive controllers for linear systems, without avoiding the forward simulation of the available system model.
The proposed framework exhibits the following important characteristics: 1) The robot dynamics are not forward simulated and hence they are decoupled from the motion planner.
Consequently, even though a 2nd-order system is considered, the motion planner is purely geometrical and depends on the geometry of the configuration space as well as the bounds of the robot uncertainties.
