# 3.3.2 Distance and Bearing Rigidity in SE(3)

We begin be recalling that the range space of the grasp matrix $G ^ { T }$ corresponds to the rigid body translations and rotations of the system. While this matrix appears naturally in the context of dynamic modeling of rigid bodies, it is also indirectly related to the notion of structural rigidity in discrete geometry, which is a combinatorial theory for determining the flexibility of ensembles formed by rigid bodies connected by flexible linkages or hinges.

In the classical structural rigidity theory, one considers a collection of rigid bars connected by joints allowing free rotations around the joint axis - this is known as a bar-and-joint framework. One is then interested in understanding what are the allowable motions of the framework, i.e., those motions that preserve the lengths of the bars and their connections to the joints. The so-called trivial motions for these frameworks are precisely the rigid body translations and rotations of the system. For some frameworks, there may be additional motions, known as flexes, that also preserve the constraints. This is captured by the notion of infinitesimal motions of the framework and is characterized by the rigidity matrix of the framework [171].

Here we can consider frameworks that also encode the pose of the joints in addition to the lengths of the rigid bars connecting them, leading to a distance and bearing-type framework. Bearing rigidity has been recently explored in the context of formation control and studies the problem of under what conditions the geometric pattern of a network can be uniquely determined if the bearing of each edge in the network is fixed [157] (see Fig. 3.13). The bearing rigidity has also been extended to frameworks embedded in SE(2) and SE(3)[162, 163]. Both the bearing and distance rigidity theories have found many applications for multi-agent systems, in particular for formation control and localization [154, 157, 172, 173].
