# Workspace Partition

As already mentioned, we are interested in designing a well-defined abstraction of the coupled object-agents system, so that we can define MITL formulas over certain properties in a discrete set of regions of the workspace. Therefore, we provide now a partition of into cell regions. We denote by $\textstyle { \mathcal { S } } _ { q }$ the set that consists of all points $p _ { s } \in \mathcal { W }$ that physically belong to the coupled system, i.e., they consist part of either the volume of the agents or the volume of the object. Note that these points depend on the actual value of $q .$ We further define the constant $\hat { L } \geq \operatorname* { s u p } _ { q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } } \| p _ { s } - p _ { O } ( q ) \|$ , where, ps∈Sq with a slight abuse of notation and in view of the coupled object-agents kinematics and the forward kinematics of the agents, we express $p _ { o }$ as a function of $q .$ Note that, although the explicit computation of $\textstyle { \mathcal { S } } _ { q }$ may not be possible, $\hat { L }$ is an upper bound of the maximum distance between the object center of mass and a point in the coupled system’s volume over all possible configurations $q ,$ and thus, it can be measured. For instance, Fig. 5.16 shows $\hat { L }$ for the system of Fig. 2.1. It is straightforward to conclude that

$$\mathcal {S} _ {q} \subset \mathcal {B} (p _ {O} (q), \hat {L}), \forall q \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}. \tag {5.11}$$

Next, we partition the workspace  into R equally sized rectangular regions $\Pi = \{ \pi _ { 1 } , \ldots , \pi _ { R } \}$ , whose geometric centers are denoted by $p _ { \pi _ { i } } ^ { c } \in \mathcal { W } , j \in$ $\{ 1 , \ldots , R \}$ . The length of the region sides is set to $D = 2 \hat { L } + 2 l _ { 0 }$ , where $l _ { 0 }$ is an arbitrary positive constant. Hence, each region $\pi _ { j }$ can be formally defined as follows:

$$\pi_ {j} := \{p \in \mathcal {W} \text {s.t.} (p) _ {k} \in [ (p _ {\pi_ {j}} ^ {c}) _ {k} - \hat {L} - l _ {0}, (p _ {\pi_ {j}} ^ {c}) _ {k} + \hat {L} + l _ {0}), \forall k \in \{x, y, z \} \},$$

with $\begin{array} { r l } { \| p _ { \pi _ { j + 1 } } ^ { c } - p _ { \pi _ { j } } ^ { c } \| = } & { { } ( 2 \hat { L } + 2 l _ { 0 } ) , \forall j \ \in \ \{ 1 , \dots , R - 1 \} } \end{array}$ , and $( p _ { \pi _ { j } } ^ { c } ) _ { z } : =$ $\hat { L } + l _ { 0 } , \forall j \in \{ 1 , \dots , R \} ; \ ( \cdot ) _ { k } , k \in \{ x , y , z \}$ , denotes the k-th coordinate. An illustration of the aforementioned partition is depicted in Fig. 5.17.
