The efficiency of this technique is highly related to the tightness of the upperbound $\rho _ { 1 }$ . For instance, if the upper bound is large, to obtain a verification result,  tends to be very small, greatly increasing the points over which to check the required condition. Thus, the key problem here is to solve the local Lipschitz constant computation for neural networks. This problem has been addressed by a variety of techniques in the literature [35], [5], [28], [24] but there is limitation on their time and memory scalability. The existent techniques in the literature are mostly limited to ReLU activation functions. There is also a trade-off between their scalability and accuracy.

Algorithm 2: Recursive algorithm for verification with local Lipschitz certificates.   
1 Function Lip - Verify(φ, ρ₁, I, model, controller, N, status)
2    - construct a uniform ε-net of N hypercubes over I
3    ε-net = ∑_{i=1}^{N} [ℓ_i, u_i],    ε_i = ||u_i - ℓ_i||_2
4    while true do
5    for i ← 1 to N do
6    if status ≠ Solved then
7    ρ₁, status ← Trapezium–Lip–SDP([ℓ_i, u_i])
8    ρ₂ ← min_{x∈V([ℓ_i, u_i])} R_φ(x)
9    if ρ₂ < 0 then
10    return Falsified + counter example
11    terminate;
12    else
13    if (status ≠ Solved) ∨ ((status = Solved) ∧ (ε_i > ρ₂/ρ₁)) then
14    return
15    Lip - Verify(φ, ρ₁, [ℓ_i, u_i], model, controller, N, status)
16    return Verified

In this paper, we use the convex programming technique presented in [15], [18] as convex programming scales to larger neural networks with low conservatism. The proposed technique [15], [18] in its current formulation is not directly applicable to our verification process but we can apply it with small modifications; the details are discussed in Appendix A.2. We call this specific formulation of proposed convex programming in [18], [15] as Trapezium−Lip−SDP(). We remark that this method is applicable to plant and controller models that are neural networks with arbitrary activation functions or plants that have linear models. However, in its current form, we were not able to get conclusive verification results for arbitrary nonlinear ODE-based models (as local Lipschitz computation returned overly conservative Lipschitz constant values).
