# B. Task Formulation

We train and test our mixed $H _ { \infty } – \mathbf { R } \mathbf { I }$ controller (Fig. 2) to perform navigation tasks in the simulated environments. The agent’s goal is to control the vehicle to a desired position. We first introduce two environments: a simplified toy environment, TurtleSim, and the blimp simulator[11].

1) Turtle Control Task: Due to the similarity to the blimp control problem, we introduce it for the ablation study. As shown in Fig. 3a, the agent observes the state in every time step and controls the robot turtle to a stationary target position. Both robot and target positions spawn randomly in every new episode. We formulate the problem by an MDP with the following state and action space,

• state space: $s _ { t } = ( s _ { \theta } , s _ { l } , u _ { v } , u _ { \omega } , q ) _ { t } \in [ 0 , 1 ] ,$   
• action space: $a _ { t } = ( a _ { v } , a _ { \omega } ) _ { t } \in [ - 1 , 1 ] ,$ ,

where all states are in the range [0, 1], and the scaled state $\left( { { s \theta } , { s \iota } } \right)$ are the relative yaw angle θ and relative distance $l ,$ augmented with the mixing factor $q ~ \in ~ [ 0 , 1 ]$ , and the base control $( u _ { v } , u _ { \omega } )$ corresponds to thrust and yaw velocity command and share the same command channel with the agent’s actions $( a _ { v } , a _ { \omega } )$ . Then the navigation task can be formulated by the reward function,

$$
r _ {t} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} w _ {\text { success }} & w _ {\text { track }} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} r _ {\text { success }, t} \\ r _ {\text { track }, t} \end{array} \right] \tag {3}
r _ {s u c c e s s, t} = 1 \text { if } | l _ {t} | \leq \epsilon \text { else } 0, \tag {4}r _ {\text { track }, t} = - \left| l _ {t} \right|, \tag {5}$$

where by default $w _ { s u c c e s s } = 5 0 0 , w _ { t r a c k } = 0 . 1$ , and $\epsilon = 0 . 1$ . The environment resets itself when the success reward is obtained.

2) Blimp Control Task: Similar to the turtle control task, the goal of the RL agent is to navigate the robotic blimp (Fig. 3b) to a virtual position target. The state and action space are specified as follows,

• state space: $s _ { t } = ( s _ { z } , s _ { l } , s _ { \theta } , u _ { \zeta } , u _ { \eta } , u _ { \epsilon } , u _ { \delta } , q ) _ { t }$   
• action space: $a _ { t } = ( a _ { \zeta } , a _ { \eta } , a _ { \epsilon } , a _ { \delta } ) _ { t }$
