(c)   
Fig. 7: [Recursive partitioning for STL verification with local Lipschitz computation: (a) Presents the certificates $\rho _ { 1 }$ for each partition at each step. These certificates are computed with convex programming utilizing MOSEK and YALMIP. The results are rounded upwards. (b) Presents the certificates $\rho _ { 2 }$ for each partition at each step. These certificates are computed over Trapezium-FFNN. The results are rounded downwards. (c) shows the verification results. The result is 0 when $\epsilon > \rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 }$ and is 1 when $\epsilon <$ < $\rho _ { 2 } / \rho _ { 1 }$ . Obviously 1 indicates the controller is verified over the subset. We partitioned $\mathcal { T }$ in three steps to receive 1 on every partition. The diameter  is ${ \sqrt { 2 } } / 2$ , $\bar { \sqrt { 2 } } / 4$ , ${ \sqrt { 2 } } / 8$ for the biggest, medium and smallest partitions respectively.

combination of linear arithmetic constraints which is also based on SMT. The authors in [12], [27], [32] present several verification techniques that are based on Mixed Integer Linear Programming MILP and the works [3], [16], [38], [39], [46], [45], [47] are also considered as set based verification techniques. The other group addresses the closed loop NNCS. The authors in [40] propose sound and complete verification for discrete plants based on Satisfiability Modulo Convex (SMC) techniques. The authors in [11] propose a fast and efficient algorithm that is restricted on ReLU activation function based on regressive polynomial rule inference. For Verification on NNCS with ODE models the authors in [21] propose a reachability analysis on nonlinear plants employing Taylor series and Bernstein Polynomials. This method is not restricted on ReLU and is adjustable to control the level of conservatism. Falsification and test-based approaches are also introduced to the verification community with authors in [9,10,44].
