# REFERENCES

[1] F. Blanchini and S. Miani. Set-theoretic methods in control, volume 78. Springer, 2008.   
[2] N. M. Boffi, S. Tu, N. Matni, J.-J. E. Slotine, and V. Sindhwani. Learning stability certificates from data. In Conf. on Robot Learning, 2020.   
[3] Y.-C. Chang, N. Roohi, and S. Gao. Neural lyapunov control. Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.   
[4] S. Chen, S. A. Billings, and P. Grant. Non-linear system identification using neural networks. International journal of control, 51(6):1191– 1214, 1990.   
[5] C. Dawson, S. Gao, and C. Fan. Safe control with learned certificates: A survey of neural Lyapunov, barrier, and contraction methods. Available at https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.11762, 2022.   
[6] B. El Khadir, J. Varley, and V. Sindhwani. Teleoperator imitation with continuous-time safety. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2019.   
[7] J. K. Gupta, K. Menda, Z. Manchester, and M. J. Kochenderfer. Structured mechanical models for robot learning and control. In Learning for Dynamics & Control Conference, 2020.   
[8] L. Hewing, K. P. Wabersich, M. Menner, and M. N. Zeilinger. Learningbased model predictive control: Toward safe learning in control. Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 3:269–296, 2020.   
[9] K. Kashima, R. Yoshiuchi, and Y. Kawano. Learning stabilizable deep dynamics models. Available at https://arxiv.org/abs/2203. 09710, 2022.   
[10] M. Khosravi and R. S. Smith. Nonlinear system identification with prior knowledge on the region of attraction. IEEE Control Systems Letters, 5(3):1091–1096, 2021.   
[11] S. Levine, P. Pastor, A. Krizhevsky, J. Ibarz, and D. Quillen. Learning hand-eye coordination for robotic grasping with deep learning and largescale data collection. The International journal of robotics research, 37(4-5):421–436, 2018.   
[12] S. Liu, G. Lever, Z. Wang, J. Merel, S. A. Eslami, D. Hennes, W. M. Czarnecki, Y. Tassa, S. Omidshafiei, A. Abdolmaleki, et al. From motor control to team play in simulated humanoid football. Science Robotics, 7(69):eabo0235, 2022.   
[13] G. Manek and J. Z. Kolter. Learning stable deep dynamics models. In Conf. on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019.
