Note that the condition (2.101) can be evaluated by each agent individually. When one agent identifies a triggering condition, the agent then signals to all agents that an update is required and all agents then only communicate $p _ { C _ { i } / o }$ and $p _ { C _ { i } / f }$ for all $i \in \mathcal N$ .

The proposed control is decentralized with aperiodic updates of only each agent’s contact information. The event-triggered, decentralized control law ensures practical asymptotic stability of the origin as presented in the following theorem:

Theorem 2.6. Consider N robotic agents in contact with an object, described by the dynamics (2.70), (2.73), and suppose Assumptions 2.10 and 2.11 hold. Let the desired object pose $[ p _ { \mathrm { d } } ^ { \top } , \eta _ { \mathrm { d } } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } : \mathbb { R } _ { \ge 0 }  \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 } \times { \sf S } ^ { 3 }$ be bounded with bounded first and second derivatives. Moreover, assume that $e _ { \varphi } ( 0 ) \not = 0$ and $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } ( 0 ) \in \mathrm { I n t } ( \mathcal { F } _ { C _ { i } } )$ , $\forall i \in \mathcal N$ . Then, by choosing sufficiently large control gains $k _ { p } , k _ { \eta } , K _ { v }$ , the event-triggered control protocol (2.92), (2.93), (2.98) with event-triggered mechanism (2.101) guarantees ultimate boundedness of $e _ { \mathcal { R } } , e _ { v }$ in a set around the origin, and by choosing sufficiently large $\epsilon _ { f } , \varepsilon _ { c }$ , $\varepsilon _ { d } ,$ it holds that $f _ { C _ { i } } ^ { C _ { i } } ( t ) \in \mathcal { F } _ { C _ { i } } , \forall t > 0 , i \in \mathcal { N }$ .

Proof. The proof is structured into 2 Cases. Case 1 addresses the system if no event is triggered. Case 2 addresses the triggering conditions and ensuring non-Zeno behavior for the time updates.

Case 1: Here we address the case when no event is triggered such that $t _ { k } = 0$ and $t _ { k + 1 } = \infty$ . We note from the proof of Theorem 2.5 that the continuous control law, τ from (2.81) ensures asymptotic stability of the system with the Lyapunov candidate function, $V _ { f }$ , defined in (2.88). We define the following compact set:

$$\Omega_ {k} := \{\chi \in \mathcal {X}: V _ {f} (\chi (t)) \leq V _ {k} (\chi) \}, k \in \mathbb {Z} _ {\geq 0}$$

with $V _ { f }$ as defined in (2.88), and $V _ { k } : = V _ { f } ( \chi ( t = t _ { k } ) )$ .
