One of the main problems that arise when dealing with high-level tasks based on temporal-logic formulas is the construction of a discrete abstracted representation of the continuous system. More specifically, given a temporallogic formula over a continuous workspace/state space, how does one partition this space into discrete state?s? Moreover, given a predefined partition, what are the control inputs of the agents that guarantee well-defined transitions among the discrete states? When multi-agent systems are concerned, the aforementioned specifications must also incorporate collision-avoidance as well as connectivity-maintenance properties among the robots, which brings the problem of abstraction to a new level of complexity.

Furthermore, consider a case where some unactuated objects must undergo a series of processes in a workspace with autonomous agents (e.g., car factories), expressed as temporal-logic high-level specifications. In such cases, the agents, except for satisfying their own motion specifications, are also responsible for coordinating with each other in order to transport the objects around the workspace. When the unactuated objects’ specifications are expressed using temporal logics, then the motion- and task- planning of the agents’ behavior becomes much more complex, since the discrete system abstraction has to also take into account the objects’ goals.

The aforementioned problems become even more challenging when one takes into account system uncertainty. The dynamic model of real robotic systems cannot be accurately known by the user/designer, since it includes terms that might not be easy to identify, e.g., dynamic parameters (mass, inertia), friction, and other external disturbances. This becomes more apparent as the complexity of the considered systems increases (consider, e.g., a mobile robot vs a 6-DoF robotic manipulator). These uncertainties are expected to affect the performance of the system, and since they cannot be accurately canceled by the control design, the latter must render the closed-loop system robust to them [12].
