Postoyan, R., van de Wouw, N., Neˇsi´c, D., and Heemels, W.P.M.H.
(2014).
Tracking Control for Nonlinear Networked Control Systems.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 59(6), 1539–1554.
Raff, T., K¨ogel, M., and Allg¨ower, F.
(2008).
Observer with sample-and-hold updating for Lipschitz nonlinear systems with nonuniformly sampled measurements.
In Proc.
American Control Conf., 5254–5257.
Seattle, WA, USA.
Theodosis, D.
and Dimarogonas, D.V.
(2018).
Self-Triggered Control under Actuator Delays.
In Proc.
57th

IEEE Conf. Decision Control, 1524–1529.

Tiberi, U. and Johansson, K.H. (2013). A simple selftriggered sampler for perturbed nonlinear systems. Nonlinear Analysis: Hybrid Systems, 10, 126–140.

Tolic, D., Sanfelice, R.G., and Fierro, R. (2012). Selftriggering in nonlinear systems: A small gain theorem approach. In 20th Mediterranean Conf. on Control Automation, 941–947.

Appendix A.

Proof of Theorem 1. Consider any maximal solution ξ to (4). Note that $\hat { x } _ { o } ( s _ { j } ^ { + } ) = x _ { o } ( s _ { j } ^ { + } ) = \check { x } _ { o } ( s _ { j } )$ and thus $e ( s _ { j } ^ { + } )$ = $e _ { o } ( s _ { j } ^ { + } ) = e _ { o } ( s _ { j } )$ . Obviously, $\bar { h } \ge \delta T _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( \gamma _ { 1 } , L _ { 1 } + \textstyle \frac { \epsilon _ { 1 } } { 2 } ) = t _ { \operatorname* { m i n } }$ in Algorithm 1 and thus $t _ { j + 1 } - t _ { j } = \Gamma ( x _ { o } ( s _ { j } ) , \eta ( s _ { j } ) ) \geq$ $t _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ holds for all $j \in$ dom ξ, i.e. the minimum time between two triggering instants is strictly positive. Because of the update of h¯ in Algorithm 1, for each $j \in$ dom ξ, there is an $i _ { j } ~ \in ~ \{ 1 , \ldots , n _ { p } \}$ such that $t _ { j + 1 } ~ -$ $t _ { j } \ \leq \ T _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } \left( \gamma _ { i _ { j } } , \operatorname* { m a x } \left\{ L _ { i _ { j } } + { \frac { \epsilon _ { i _ { j } } } { 2 } } , 1 - \delta \right\} \right)$ and $t _ { j + 1 } - t _ { j } \ \leq$ $t _ { \mathrm { m a x } } : = \operatorname* { m a x } _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , n _ { p } \} } \delta T _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ( \gamma _ { i }$ , max $\bigl \{ L _ { i } + \tilde { \frac { \epsilon _ { i } } { 2 } } , 1 - \delta \bigr \} \bigr )$ . Proposition 1 thus implies for $t _ { j } \leq t \leq t _ { j + 1 }$ with $x _ { p } ( s _ { j } ^ { + } ) = x _ { p } ( s _ { j } )$ and $e ( s _ { j } ^ { + } ) = e _ { o } ( s _ { j } )$ that
