$$B _ {i} (q _ {i}) \ddot {q} _ {i} + C _ {q _ {i}} (q _ {i}, \dot {q} _ {i}) \dot {q} _ {i} + g _ {q _ {i}} (q _ {i}) = \tau_ {i} - J _ {i} (q _ {i}) ^ {\top} h _ {i} \tag {5.20a}M _ {i} (q _ {i}) \dot {v} _ {i} + C _ {i} (q _ {i}, \dot {q} _ {i}) v _ {i} + g _ {i} (q _ {i}) = u _ {i} - h _ {i}, \tag {5.20b}$$

with the standard dynamic terms (see previous chapters). Note again that the terms of (5.20b) are only defined in $\mathsf { S } _ { i }$ , away from singular configurations. Avoidance of such configurations is not explicitly taken account here. Note, however, that the agents’ tasks consist of navigating as well as cooperatively transporting the objects to predefined points in the workspace. This along with the fact that the agents consist of fully actuated moving bases imposes a kinematic redundancy, which can be exploited to avoid kinematic singularities.

We consider that each agent $i ,$ for a given $q _ { i }$ , covers a spherical region $\mathcal { A } _ { i } : = \bar { B } _ { i } ( c _ { i } ( q _ { i } ) , r _ { i } ) \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ of constant radius $r _ { i } ~ \in \ \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ that bounds its volume for that given $q _ { i } .$ , where $c _ { i } : = c _ { i } ( q _ { i } ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ is the center of the spherical region (a point on the robotic arm), $\forall i \in { \mathcal { N } } ; { \mathcal { A } } _ { i }$ can be obtained by considering the smallest sphere that covers the workspace of the robotic arm, extended with the mobile base part. Moreover, we consider that the agents have specific power capabilities, which for simplicity, we match to positive integers ${ \mathfrak { c } } _ { i } > 0 , i \in \mathcal { N }$ , via an analogous relation.

Regarding the objects, we slightly change the notation with respect to the previous chapters and denote by $x _ { j } ^ { o } : = [ ( p _ { j } ^ { o } ) ^ { \top } , ( \eta _ { j } ^ { o } ) ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { M } , \ v _ { j } ^ { o } : =$ $[ ( \dot { p } _ { j } ^ { o } ) ^ { \top } , ( \omega _ { j } ^ { o } ) ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 1 2 } , \forall j \in \mathcal { M }$ , the pose and generalized velocity of the jth object’s center of mass. The object dynamic equations are given by the standard Newton-Euler form:

$$\dot {x} _ {j} ^ {o} = J _ {j} ^ {o} (x _ {j} ^ {o}) v _ {j} ^ {o}, \tag {5.21a}M _ {o} (\eta_ {j} ^ {o}) \dot {v} _ {j} ^ {o} + C _ {o} (\eta_ {j} ^ {o}, \omega_ {j} ^ {o}) v _ {j} ^ {o} + g _ {o} = h _ {j} ^ {o}. \tag {5.21b}$$
