Barrier functions constitute a suitable tool for expressing objectives like collision avoidance. Originated in optimization, they are continuous functions that diverge to infinity as their argument approaches the boundary of a desired/feasibly region. Barrier Lyapunov-like functions for general control systems can be found in [248, 249], and in [181, 250, 251] for multiagent systems, for obstacle avoidance with spherical obstacles/agents and time-dependent tasks.

This chapter deals with the following three problems. Firstly, we consider the robot navigation in an obstacle-cluttered environment under 2nd-order uncertain robot dynamics. The considered uncertainties consist of (i) unknown friction/drag terms, which are hard to model accurately, and (ii) unknown mass and unmodeled dynamics, motivated by transportation of objects of unknown mass or fuel consumption along a robot task, or cases where the robot is enhanced with other parts (e.g., robotic manipulators), whose dynamics are not known. We design a novel 2nd-order smooth navigation function which is integrated with adaptive control laws that compensate for the uncertain terms. Extensive analysis of the equilibrium points of the closed-loop system shows convergence to the desired goal from almost all initial conditions while avoiding obstacle collisions with the workspace boundary and spherical obstacles. The proposed scheme is then extended to star-worlds, i.e., workspaces with star-shaped obstacles [197]. Finally, using the single-robot methodology, we propose a decentralized hybrid coordination algorithm for the navigation of a multi-robot system in an environment cluttered with spherical obstacles.
