# 3 Experiment

In this section, we validate the proposed disturbance estimation method on a seven-DoF Kuka LWR 4+ robot manipulator which is designed for human-collaborative tasks [41], as shown in Fig. 1. The manipulator device provides a Fast Research Interface (FRI) [42] for the design of robot controllers, which enables torque-level control capabilities, joint position feedback, system parameters acquisition and external torque measurements. To evaluate the performance of the proposed method for external torque estimation in nominal robot tasks, we conduct two experiments. (a). Insert three different types of predefined disturbance torques to the actuation input, and compare them with the estimated results; (b). Exert physical contacts on the robot end-effector and compare the estimated results with the signal data measured by the joint torque sensors. To simulate a working environment for the robot, we design a periodic reference trajectory $q _ { \mathrm { r } } ( t )$ in the joint space, for both experiments,

$$q _ {\mathrm{r}} (t) = (1 - \cos (\pi t / 4 - 1)) q _ {\mathrm{t}}, 4 < t \leq 9 2,$$

where $\mathrm { ~ \it ~ 4 . = \left[ \mathrm { ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ 0 . 7 ~ } \right] ^ { \mathrm { ~ T ~ } } }$ rad, and $q _ { \mathrm { r } } ( t ) = 0$ for $t \leq 4$ and $t > 9 2$ . It can be verified that $q _ { \mathrm { r } } ( t )$ and $\dot { q } _ { \mathrm { r } } ( t )$ are continuously bounded, and $\ddot { q } _ { \mathrm { r } } ( t )$ is bounded. A PD tracking controller $\tau ( q , \dot { q } )$ is designed for $\dot { q } _ { \mathrm { r } } ( t )$ ,

$$\tau = K _ {\mathrm{p}} (q - q _ {r}) + K _ {\mathrm{d}} (\dot {q} - \dot {q} _ {r}),$$

where $K _ { \mathrm { p } } ~ = ~ 2 0 0 I _ { 7 }$ and $K _ { \mathrm { d } } ~ = ~ 8 I _ { 7 }$ . All programs are created by Simulink of MATLAB 2017a in Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and compiled using FRI. The sampling rate of the system is 1 kHz. Each experiment starts from the zero initial condition $q ( 0 ) = \dot { q } ( 0 ) = 0$ and lasts for 100 seconds. As a result, the linearized dynamics (2) is also given a zero initial condition $x ( 0 ) = 0$ .
