# Chapter 4

This chapter tackles the problem of multi-agent coordination in the following ways. Firstly, we consider the problem of single- and multi-agent navigation in an obstacle-cluttered spherical environment under 2nd-order uncertain dynamics. We propose an adaptive control scheme that guarantees the singleagent collision-free navigation to the goal from almost all initial conditions while compensating for the uncertain dynamics, which is then extended it to a decentralized priority-based multi-agent case. Secondly, we consider the leader-following coordination problem in the following sense. A leader agent aims at navigating to a pre-specified pose, while the entire team has to avoid collision with each other, as well as maintain connectivity. We develop a decentralized adaptive control protocol, compensating again for dynamic uncertainties, to guarantee accomplishment of the aforementioned specifications. The algorithms above consider spherical agents, which might be a conservative over-simplification when it comes to real robots. Therefore, we finally develop an adaptive control methodology that guarantees collision avoidance among ellipsoidal agents. We propose a novel closed-form function that encodes collisions among 3D ellipsoids and combine it with an adaptive control law that compensates for the model uncertainties. The covered material is based on the following contributions [22–24]:

• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas: “Adaptive Robot Navigation with Collision Avoidance Subject to 2nd-order Uncertain Dynamics”, Under Review.   
• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Adaptive Leader-Follower Coordination of Lagrangian Multi-AgentSystems under Transient Constraints”, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 3833- 3838, Nice, France, 2019.

• C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Closed-Form Barrier Functions for Multi-Agent Ellipsoidal Systems with Uncertain Lagrangian Dynamics”, IEEE Control System Letters, pp. 727-732, 2019.
