# 2 Preliminaries

In this section, we first provide the mathematical notation and terminology to formulate the problem definition. We use bold letters to indicate vectors and vector-valued functions, and calligraphic letters to denote sets. We assume that the reader is familiar with feedforward neural networks, see [17] for a brief review.

Neural Network Controlled Dynamical Systems (NNCS). Let s and u respectively denote the state and input control variables that take values from compact sets $S \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and ${ \mathcal { C } } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , respectively. We use $\mathbf { s } _ { k }$ (resp. uk) to denote the value of the state variable (resp. control input) at time k. We first define deep neural network controlled systems (NNCS) as a recurrent difference equation4:

$$\mathbf {s} _ {k + 1} = \mathbf {f} (\mathbf {s} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k}), \quad \mathbf {u} _ {k} = \eta (\mathbf {s} _ {k}). \tag {1}$$

Here, f is assumed to be any computable function, and η is a (deep) neural network. We note that we can include time as a state, which allows us to encode time-varying plant models as well (where the dynamics corresponding to the time variable simply increment it by 1).

Neural Plant Models. In the model-based development paradigm, designers typically create environment or plant models using laws of physics. However, with increasing complexity of real world environments, the data driven control paradigm suggests the use of machine learning models like Gaussian Process [36] or neural networks as function approximators. Such models typically take as input the values of the state and control input variables at time k and predict the value of the state at time $k + 1$ . In this paper, we focus on environment models that use deep neural networks5. On the other hand linear time-invariant (LTI) models can be considered as a neural network with only linear activation functions. Finally, we note that our technique can also handle time-varying plant models such as linear time-varying models and DNN plant models that explicitly include time as an input.
