# Multi-Agent case

Finally, we use the control scheme of Section 4.2.5 in a multi-agent scenario. We consider 20 agents in a 2D workspace of $r _ { \mathcal { W } } = 1 2 0$ , populated with 70 obstacles. The agents and obstacles are randomly initialized to satisfy the conditions of the free space of Section 4.2.5 (see Fig. 4.10). The radius of the agents and the obstacles is chosen as $r _ { i } = r _ { o _ { i } } = 2 , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } , j \in \mathcal { I }$ , and the sensing radius of the agents is taken as $\varsigma _ { i } = 2 \check { 0 } , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } .$ . The functions $\beta , \beta _ { i }$ are chosen as in the previous subsections, and we also choose $\bar { r } = 4 , \varepsilon = 0 . 1$ . The results are depicted in Figs. 4.11-4.13 for 870 seconds. More specifically, Fig. 4.11 shows the convergence of the distance errors $\| x _ { i } ( t ) - x _ { \mathrm { d } _ { i } } \|$ to zero, $\forall i \in N , t \in [ 0 , 8 7 0 ]$ , and Fig. 4.12 depicts the trajectories $x _ { i } ( t )$ of the agents in the workspace, $\forall i \in \tilde { \mathcal { N } } , t \in [ 0 , \hat { 8 } 7 0 ]$ , from which it is clear that there is no collision with the workspace boundary. Finally, Fig. 4.13 shows the minimum of the distances $\| x _ { i } \ ( t ) - x _ { j } ( t ) \| { \stackrel {  } { - } } 2 r , \forall i , j \in { \bar { \mathcal { N } } } , i \neq j$ , and $\| { \boldsymbol x } _ { i } ( t ) - { \boldsymbol c } _ { j } \| - 2 r , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } , j \in \mathcal { I }$ , defined as

$$\beta_ {\min} (t) := \min \bigg \{\min _ {i, j \in \mathcal {N}, i \neq j} \big \{\| x _ {i} (t) - x _ {j} (t) \| - 2 r \big \}, \min _ {(i, j) \in \mathcal {N} \times \mathcal {J}} \big \{\| x _ {i} (t) - c _ {j} \| - 2 r \big \} \bigg \},$$

which stays strictly positive, $\forall t \in [ 0 , 8 7 0 ]$ , implying that collisions are avoided. A video illustrating the multi-robot case can be found on https://vimeo.com/393443782.
