# Contributions not included in this thesis

The following publications are not covered in this thesis, but are related to the work presented here [35–41]:

• A. Nikou, C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Robust distancebased formation control of multiple rigid bodies with orientation alignment”, IFAC-PapersOnLine, 50(1), pp. 15458-15463, Toulouse, France, 2017.   
• C. K. Verginis, A. Nikou and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Position and orientation based formation control of multiple rigid bodies with collision and avoidance and connectivity maintenance”, IEEE International Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 411-416, 2017, Melbourne, Australia.   
• L. Lindemann, C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Prescribed performance control for signal temporal logic specifications”, Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 2997-3002, Melbourne, Australia, 2017.   
• A. Nikou, C. K. Verginis, S. Heshmati-alamdari and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Decentralized abstractions and timed constrained planning of a general class of coupled multi-agent systems”, Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 990–995, Melbourne, Australia, 2017.   
• J. Wei, C. K. Verginis, J. Wu, D. V. Dimarogonas, H. Sandberg, and K. H. Johansson, “Asymptotic and Finite-Time Almost Global Attitude Tracking: Representations Free Approach”, European Control Conference (ECC), pp. 3126-3131, Limassol, Cyprus, 2018.   
• T. Pan, C. K. Verginis, A. M. Wells, D. V. Dimarogonas, and L. E. Kavraki: “Augmenting Control Policies with Motion Planning for Robust and Safe Multi-robot Navigation”, submitted to the IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 2020.   
• N. Lissandrini, C. K. Verginis, P. Roque, A. Cenedese, and D. V. Dimarogonas: “Decentralized Nonlinear MPC for Robust Cooperative Manipulation by Heterogeneous Aerial-Ground Robots”, submitted to the IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 2020.
