In addition, most works in the related literature consider known dynamic parameters regarding the object and the robotic agents. However, the accurate knowledge of such parameters, such as masses or moments of inertia, can be a challenging issue, especially for complex robotic manipulators; adaptive control protocols are proposed in [46] with a gain tuning scheme, in [52], where the object regulation problem is considered, and in [47], [61]. An estimation of parameters is included in [67, 70], whereas [62] and [63] employ fuzzy mechanisms to compensate for model uncertainties. In [65, 71] the authors develop a task-oriented adaptive control protocol using observers. Kinematic uncertainties and joint limits are handled in [68], [55], and [72], respectively.

An internal force and load distribution analysis is performed in [73]; [59] employs a leader-follower scheme, and [74] develops a decentralized force consensus algorithm. Furthermore, [75] introduces hybrid modeling of cooperative manipulation schemes and [76] includes intermittent contact; [77] proposes a kinematic-based multi-robot manipulation scheme, and [78, 79] address the problem from a formation-control point of view. In [80] a navigation function-based approach is used, and object manipulation by aerial robots is considered in [81–83].

Another interesting direction regarding cooperative manipulation is the safe transportation of an object in an obstacle-cluttered environment. In standard manipulation tasks, collision with obstacles of the environment has been dealt with only by exploiting the extra degrees of freedom that appear in over-actuated robotic agents. Potential field-based algorithms may suffer from local minima and navigation functions [84] cannot be extended to multi-agent second order dynamical systems in a trivial way. Moreover, these methods usually result in high control input values near obstacles that need to be avoided, which might conflict the saturation of the actual motor inputs.
