# 3.1 Introduction

During the last decades, decentralized control of networked multi-agent systems has gained a significant amount of attention due to the great variety of its applications, including multi-robot systems, transportation, multi-point surveillance and biological systems. The main focus of multi-agent systems is the design of distributed control protocols in order to achieve global tasks, such as consensus [2–4, 122], and at the same time fulfill certain properties, e.g., network connectivity [6, 10].

A particular multi-agent problem that has been considered in the literature is the formation control problem, where the agents represent robots that aim to form a prescribed geometrical shape, specified by a certain set of desired relative configurations between the agents. The main categories of formation control that have been studied in the related literature are ([7]) position-based control, displacement-based control, distance-based control and orientation-based control.

In distance-based formation control, inter-agent distances are actively controlled to achieve a desired formation, dictated by desired inter-agent distances. Each agent is assumed to be able to sense the position of its neighboring agents. When orientation alignment is considered as a control design goal, the problem is known as orientation-based (or bearing-based) formation control. The orientation-based control steers the agents to configurations that achieve desired relative orientation angles. In this work, we aim to design a decentralized control protocol such that both distance- and orientation-based formation is achieved.

The literature in distance-based formation control is rich, and is traditionally categorized in single or double integrator agent dynamics and directed or undirected communication topologies (see e.g. [7, 123–138]). Orientationbased formation control has been addressed in [139–142], whereas the authors in [141, 143, 144] have considered the combination of distance- and orientation-based formation.
