Here, δ is a threshold which defines how much tracker error we are willing to tolerate and $\Delta$ is a minimum probability of satisfying this condition that we wish to guarantee. We refer to this version of MPC as filter-aware MPC. Just like regular MPC, filter-aware MPC minimises the total cost. Unlike regular MPC, it also considers how a sequence of actions will affect the state estimate, only allowing plans where a minimum degree of state estimation accuracy can be achieved with high enough probability.

Unfortunately, optimising eq. (4) will not bring us very far in practice. The problem is that checking the constraint for time $t + i$ requires us to predict the future carry $\mathbf { h } _ { t + i }$ . This is as computationally expensive as planning in belief space. In this version of filter-aware MPC, checking the constraints comes at a greater expense than evaluating the MPC objective.

We make an approximation to arrive at a feasible algorithm. We approximate $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( { \bf z } _ { t } , { \bf h } _ { t } ) \approx$ $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } _ { t } , \mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } _ { t } } ^ { * } )$ . In other terms, when we check the trackability of the state visited in time t, we only care about tracking errors that will happen in future time steps $t ^ { \prime } > t$ as if the process was started fresh from $\mathbf { z } _ { t }$ with a perfect state estimate. In the remainder, we drop the conditioning on $\mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } } ^ { \ast }$ and set $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } ) : = J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } , \mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } } ^ { * } )$ for brevity. We are able to do so because $\mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } } ^ { \ast }$ is a function of z.

We will use a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) to predict $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } )$ . An MLP is a natural choice for $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } )$ , since this can be seen as the negative value function (or cost-to-go) of an MDP where the cost is the tracking error and the MDP-state combines the system state z and the carry h, though the latter does not enter into our computations since we are only interested in the case where $\mathbf { h } = \mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } } ^ { * }$ Taking this angle, we use TD(λ) (Sutton, 1988) to learn an MLP φ that approximates trackability. Next, by evaluating $\phi ( \mathbf { z } _ { t } )$ ), we are able to check the constraints without ever reasoning about future state estimates directly.
