# I. INTRODUCTION

Set-point control is a central standard functionality in industry and academia, with a vast number of studied solutions ranging from standard PID control [1], [2], [3], and model predictive control (MPC) [4], [5] to tailored nonlinear adaptive methods [6]. To reduce the need for manual interaction and to improve performance further, reinforcement learning (RL) [7] is being introduced with the goal of learning optimal nonlinear control strategies, i.e. to perform optimal nonlinear adaptive control. The rationale behind this is the success of RL as function approximators in a wide range of simulated tasks [8], [9], [10]. However, there are still challenges when it comes to learning a feedback control policy for real-world systems [11]. For example, the model-free RL methods, such as policy gradient methods [7], [12], often need a large amount of training data and extensive exploration. The consequences can often be time-consuming training, and the exploration of the state space may lead to unsafe control actions. For this reason, a simulated environment is often used for training. However, there is no perfect model. The controller thus needs to be robustly trained with respect to varying system dynamics and unknown effects like occasional disturbances.

In this paper, a number of problems with standard RL algorithms are first isolated by the evaluation of a laboratory cascaded dynamic tank process [13]. To ensure that the policy can handle varying set-points, the multi-goal framework from [14] is utilized. It is stressed that conventional PID control could be used to solve this relatively simple problem, however, the main point here is that a reliable RL algorithm should also be able to handle seemingly simple

problems like this. If the RL method cannot handle simple dynamic systems it is likely that the problems will amplify for highly nonlinear dynamic systems that are hard to model and where RL becomes one of few design alternatives. The main purpose of the paper is hence not to compare RL and conventional feedback control, it is rather to isolate and provide enhancements that allow standard RL algorithms to operate more efficiently and robust on highly nonlinear feedback control systems.
