# References

Karl Johan Astr ˚ om.
Optimal control of Markov processes with incomplete state information.
¨ Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, 10(1):174–205, 1965.
Cedric Audras, A Comport, Maxime Meilland, and Patrick Rives.
Real-time dense appearance-based SLAM for RGB-D sensors.
In Australasian Conf.
on Robotics and Automation, volume 2, pages 2–2, 2011.
Philip Becker-Ehmck, Maximilian Karl, Jan Peters, and Patrick van der Smagt.
Learning to fly via deep model-based reinforcement learning.
CoRR, abs/2003.08876, 2020.
URL https: //arxiv.org/abs/2003.08876.
Dimitri P.
Bertsekas.
Dynamic programming and optimal control, 3rd Edition.
Athena Scientific, 2005.
ISBN 1886529264.
URL http://www.worldcat.org/oclc/314894080.
G.
Bradski.
The OpenCV Library.
Dr.
Dobb’s Journal of Software Tools, 2000.
Christoph Bohm.
Avoidance of poorly observable trajectories: A predictive control perspective, 07 ¨ 2008.
A.
Cassandra, M.
L.
Littman, and N.
L.
Zhang.
Incremental pruning: A simple, fast, exact algorithm for partially observable Markov decision processes.
In Proceedings of the 13th Annual Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI), pages 54–61, 1998.
Yang Chen and Gerard Medioni.
Object modelling by registration of multiple range images.
´ Image and vision computing, 10(3):145–155, 1992.
Stuart E Dreyfus.
Dynamic programming and the calculus of variations.
Technical report, RAND CORP SANTA MONICA CA, 1965.
Davide Falanga, Philipp Foehn, Peng Lu, and Davide Scaramuzza.
PAMPC: perception-aware model predictive control for quadrotors.
CoRR, abs/1804.04811, 2018.
URL http://arxiv.org/ abs/1804.04811.
Marcello Farina, Luca Giulioni, and Riccardo Scattolini.
Stochastic linear model predictive control with chance constraints–a review.
Journal of Process Control, 44:53–67, 2016.
C.
Daniel Freeman, Erik Frey, Anton Raichuk, Sertan Girgin, Igor Mordatch, and Olivier Bachem.
Brax – a differentiable physics engine for large scale rigid body simulation, 2021.
URL http: //github.com/google/brax.
Scott Fujimoto, Herke van Hoof, and David Meger.
Addressing function approximation error in actor-critic methods.
In Jennifer Dy and Andreas Krause, editors, Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 1587–1596.
PMLR, 10–15 Jul 2018.
