However, compared to a typical single-agent POMDP, a coordinator’s POMDP has an astronomically large action space, since its actions are mappings. (Even a seemingly small problem like DecTiger (2,1,β) (see Appendix A.1) has millions of actions.) The huge action space creates major challenges in the use of state-of-the-art point-based methods to coordinator’s POMDPs because: (1) The backup procedure requires solving discrete optimization problems over the action space. (2) The belief exploration processes of certain point-based methods [6], [7] also require solving discrete optimization problems over the action space. Therefore, even though the CI approach transforms a multi-agent problem into a single-agent one, there’s still a need for a specialized algorithm to solve these specialized single-agent problems.

In this work, we present a new algorithm for multiagent control that combines the CI approach with pointbased POMDP solution methods for large action spaces. We demonstrate the performance of the new algorithm on several benchmark problems with huge action spaces.

Related Work: The CI approach [1] has been applied in many settings. In [9], [10], the authors applied the approach to establish structural results for certain classes of multi-agent communication problems. In [11], the authors extended the approach to include the compression of private information. In [12], [13], [14], the authors proposed the idea of combining the CI approach with approximate planning and learning methods. While many theoretical results have been developed using the CI approach [1], [10], [11], [14], there is a lack of efficient planning algorithms based on this approach. As a result, empirical results have been established either in the case of very small private information spaces [13], or through machine learning techniques [15].
