# 1. Introduction

In partially observable Markov decision problems (POMDPs) we can only estimate the system state from a history of observations. This makes planning in POMDPs complicated, as the planner must find an optimal balance between reducing costs according to the current state estimate, and gathering new observations which will refine that state estimate, allowing for even better cost minimisation.

Optimally trading-off cost reduction and information gathering is only possible by planning in the space of beliefs, but that is often too expensive. Another approach, taken by model-predictive control (MPC),1 is to decouple state estimation and planning completely. The planner only focuses on costs, finding the best sequence of controls starting from the current belief. Planning in this way is as cheap as planning in a fully observable problem, but allows no way of actively acquiring new information or preserving the information we already have.

We try to find a middle ground between these two approaches. In our approach, we do not plan in belief space, but we also do not ignore future beliefs completely. Instead, we settle for reasoning about the future accuracy of the state estimate. This results in a controller that can actively maintain a desired amount of accuracy in its belief.

As a motivating example, we can look at visual navigation, where a visual tracker uses RGB-D images to track the location of a robot which is trying to reach some target coordinates. Following the shortest path might force the robot to pass through a long corridor that does not contain enough information for the visual tracker to work with. The state estimate might degrade so much that it is of no help to the planner. If we have a way of predicting the tracker’s accuracy around this corridor, we can inform the planner about it, which can then decide to follow a slightly longer path, but one where the state estimate will remain accurate.
