# B. Robustness of serial consensus

The proposed controller in (5) is a relative state-feedback controller which is designed to ensure that the closed loop system achieves $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus as guaranteed through Theorem 4. However, the $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order integrator system may be an idealization of the system and the relative state feedback may need observers to be fully realized, and there could be unmodeled dynamics. These potential sources of errors call for a robust controller. We will now present two theorems, which prove that the serial consensus is robust towards two different types of uncertainties.

1) Additive perturbation: The following theorem asserts that the $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order serial consensus controller can handle additive uncertainties.

Theorem 6: Consider the $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order serial consensus system as defined in Definition 3, under Assumption A1, with $L _ { k } = L$ for all $k ,$ and $L = L ^ { T }$ . Then the perturbed system

$$(s I + L) ^ {n} X = U _ {\text { ref }} + \left(\sum_ {k = 0} ^ {n} \Delta_ {k} s ^ {k} L ^ {n - k}\right) X,$$

where $U _ { \mathrm { r e f } } , \Delta _ { k } \in \mathcal { R } \mathcal { H } _ { \infty } .$ , achieves $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus if

$$\| \Delta_ {0} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} + \| \Delta_ {n} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} + \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {n - 1} \| \Delta_ {k} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} \sqrt {\frac {k ^ {k}}{n ^ {n}} (n - k) ^ {n - k}} < 1$$

Proof: First, note that the closed-loop system can be represented by the block diagram in Fig. 1, which in turn can be simplified to Fig. 2. Since $U _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ is stable we can apply the small-gain theorem which asserts that $U ( s )$ (as defined in the figures) will be stable if

$$\| \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {n} \Delta_ {k} s ^ {k} L ^ {n - k} (s I + L) ^ {- n} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} < 1.$$

Applying the triangle inequality and submultiplicativity on the left-hand side (LH) yields

$$L H \leq \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {n} \| \Delta_ {k} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} \| s ^ {k} L ^ {n - k} (s I + L) ^ {- n} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} \tag {8}$$

Since L is symmetric, it is possible to unitarily diagonalize it. Let $U = { \bar { U } } ^ { H }$ denote one such unitary matrix. Then $L =$ $U \Lambda U ^ { H }$ where Λ is a non-negative real diagonal matrix.

$$\left\| s ^ {k} L ^ {n - k} (s I + L) ^ {- n} \right\| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} = \left\| s ^ {k} \Lambda^ {n - k} (s I + \Lambda) ^ {- n} \right\| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}}.$$
