One observed drawback of standard RL methods is that they take a very long time to learn a policy, and may even fail on simple set-point control problems. As discussed in the paper, one problem is that because of the training on multiple set-points the importance of efficient exploration is increased. If common stochastic Gaussian policies are used for this purpose, the exploration of different amplitude domains is far too unlikely, and therefore the training process takes much longer time than necessary. The first contribution of the paper therefore applies an untuned proportional-controller (Pcontroller) as a prior controller to aid the exploration. After the modification, the policy learns how to track different setpoints much more efficiently. But it is still time-wasting to collect samples on a real-world system. Thus, to facilitate deployment, the idea of training in simulation first and then using the policy in the real-world system is proposed. To handle the discrepancy between the real-world system and the trained simulated model, the standard approach of integrating control is applied by feeding the integrated error into the policy. However, even with the integrated error, simply training the policy on one fixed model is not enough since the optimal policy can instead find the optimal gains for this specific model. Thus, to force the RL policy to learn how to use the integrator a model ensemble [15], [16] is used for simulated training. In summary, the paper argues that a combination of these three, relatively simple, adaptations of standard RL-methods are important for the training of a set-point controller and that removing one of these parts degrades either the efficiency of the training process or the robustness of the learned controller.

The proposed method is evaluated on the real-world cascaded double tank system and on a highly nonlinear pH-control problem in simulation. The pH cannot be well controlled by PID methods but the proposed RL method performs well. These examples show that the method can succeed in learning a robust policy that achieves time-varying set-point tracking, is insensitive to model errors and is also robust against unmodelled dynamics, even if the controlled dynamic system is so nonlinear that conventional feedback control becomes hard.
