# 3.1 Exploration

In system identification and adaptive control, it is well known that the system dynamics must be excited. Two common ways to achieve such exploration are to either use a deterministic control policy and add random probing noise or to directly train a stochastic policy where the variance gives excitation of different frequencies.

In this paper a stochastic policy will be utilized during training. That is, the policy can be seen as a distribution $\pi _ { \theta } \big ( u _ { t } | x _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } \big )$ , where θ is the parameter vector to be trained. For example, the input $u _ { t }$ can be drawn from a Gaussian distribution with mean $g _ { \theta } ( x _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } )$ and standard deviation $\sigma _ { \theta }$ . Alternatively, it can be seen as a deterministic control policy with added probing noise,

$$u _ {t} = g _ {\theta} (x _ {t}, y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}}) + \varepsilon_ {\theta} \qquad \qquad (5)$$

where $\varepsilon _ { \theta }$ is zero mean probing noise with standard deviation $\sigma _ { \theta } .$ . Note that since the standard deviation depends on θ, it can be adjusted adaptively during training. This is somewhat related to the dual control problem in optimal control (˚Astr¨om, 1970; Florentin, 1962).

While well-chosen zero mean probing noise $\varepsilon _ { \theta }$ can ensure good excitation of different frequencies, the excitation of different amplitudes is also important in training set point controllers for nonlinear systems. In closed-loop system identification, this can be achieved by regularly changing the set point $y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ to random levels. However, in RL the problem is that initially the mean $g _ { \theta } ( x _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } )$ is typically a random control policy, so it will not necessarily react to changes in the set point, and therefore the collected data does initially not excite different amplitudes sufficiently. In Section 4 a method to overcome this problem is presented.
