When a fault occurs in the system, the control allocation mechanism redistributes (reallocates) the control signals produced by the controller among available actuators so that the controller has the same effects on the system output or at least produces the same steady-state responses [31].

In this research, a fault-tolerant super-twisting sliding mode controller with control allocation is proposed for a quadrotor UAV. 60% loss of control effectiveness at one rotor is simulated. The control allocation algorithm is used to stabilize the controller in case of an actuator fault. MATLAB simulations are performed for the cases with and without rotor failure, and the difference is observed. The major contributions of this research are outlined as follows:

1) Fault-tolerant super-twisting sliding mode controller with a control allocation algorithm is developed to control the quadrotor in case of actuator fault. The sliding-mode controllers are more robust than the other controller methods described above, but they suffer from a chattering problem. Unlike classical sliding mode controllers, our proposed controller does not have a chattering problem.   
2) Many researchers have studied actuator failure at rates ranging from 20% to 50%. Our study focused on an actuator failure rate of 60%, higher than many other studies. Thanks to the control allocation algorithm, the quadrotor is controlled in a stable manner despite the high rate of actuator failure.

The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. In Section II, the dynamics of the quadrotor unmanned aerial vehicle are explained. In Section III, the fault-tolerant super-twisting sliding mode control structure is explained. The MATLAB simulations of the proposed fault-tolerant sliding mode controller with control allocation are presented in Section IV. Lastly, the conclusions of this research are stressed in Section V.
