$$\ddot {x} (t) = - L _ {2} \dot {x} (t) - L _ {1} x + u _ {\mathrm{ref}} (t). \tag {1}$$

While for first-order consensus $\begin{array} { r } { \begin{array} { r } { ( \dot { x } \ = \ L x + u _ { \mathrm { r e f } } ( t ) ) } \end{array} } \end{array}$ , a sufficient condition for convergence to consensus is that the graph underlying the graph Laplacian L contains a connected spanning tree. However, this no longer suffices when $n \geq$ 2 as in (1). Therefore, we instead propose the following controller $u ( t ) = - ( L _ { 1 } + L _ { 2 } ) \dot { x } ( t ) - L _ { 1 } L _ { 2 } x ( t ) + u _ { \mathrm { r e f } } ( t )$ . The reason for this choice of controller is best illustrated by considering the resulting closed loop in the Laplace domain:

$$(s I + L _ {1}) (s I + L _ {2}) X (s) = U _ {\text { ref }}. \tag {2}$$

For this system, like for the first-order case, it is sufficient that the graphs underlying $L _ { 1 }$ and $L _ { 2 }$ contain a connected spanning tree for the system to eventually coordinate in both x and its derivative x˙ (regardless of network size!). This closed loop system, which we will call serial consensus, thus mimics one core property of the standard consensus protocol, and can also be generalized to any order n.

The main results of this paper are proofs of some key properties of the proposed $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ -order serial consensus. The controller is proven to remain localized (within an n-hop neighborhood) and implementable through relative measurements. We also prove that the closed loop will achieve consensus in all n states. Furthermore, we study the robustness of the proposed closed loop and show that the system will still coordinate when subject to unstructured uncertainty. The beneficial properties of the form (2) (generalized to any order n) are thus not contingent on an idealized implementation.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. We first introduce the $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus model and define our choice of control structure. Then the serial consensus system is defined and motivated. In Sec. III we provide proofs for the stability and robustness of the serial consensus system. Our main results are then illustrated through examples in Sec. IV. Lastly, we provide our Conclusions in Sec. V.
