In the last few years, researchers have focused on fault-tolerant controller design for unmanned aerial vehicles.
Fault-tolerant controllers maintain a stable performance regardless of disturbances [20], [21].
Ermeydan et al.
designed a fault-tolerant PID controller for a quadrotor UAV.
In the first and third rotors, a 20% loss of control effectiveness is simulated.
It is observed that the PID controller can control the quadrotor stably up to 20% failure level in two rotors [22].
Sadeghzadeh et al.
developed an active fault-tolerant PID controller for a quadrotor UAV, simulated a faulty scenario with up to 22% of power loss in power of all rotors and developed a gain scheduling strategy for faulty conditions [23].
Jun et al.
proposed a fault-tolerant PID controller design for a quadrotor.
It is observed that quadrotor flight is stable with a 2.2% height reduction when a 50% loss of effectiveness at one rotor [24].
Zhang et al.
proposed linear quadratic regulator (LQR) and model predictive controllers (MPC) for a quadrotor UAV against rotor failures, considered 30% and 50% of loss effectiveness in one rotor, respectively and compared the results [25].
Nguyen et al.
designed a fault-tolerant backstepping controller and performed simulations at 40% loss of control effectiveness at one rotor [26].
Some researchers have focused on developing a fault-tolerant sliding mode controller for the quadrotor UAV.
Wang et al.
developed an incremental sliding mode controller for a quadrotor UAV and simulated a 25% fault case for one rotor [27].
Yang et al.
designed a sliding mode fault-tolerant controller for a quadrotor UAV with varying load and actuator faults.
They proposed a method, a 40% power loss in one rotor at the 12th second [28].
Nguyen et al.
developed a fault-tolerant sliding mode controller for a quadrotor UAV.
They implemented a 40% loss of control effectiveness into the actuator [29].
In practical applications of sliding mode controllers, researchers may face the undesirable phenomenon of oscillations having finite frequency and amplitude, which is called chattering.
Chattering leads to low control accuracy, high heat losses in power circuits and high wear of moving mechanical parts.
It can arise from the fast dynamics which were neglected in the ideal model [30].
