# Appendix G. Relationship to Belief Planning

Belief planning optimally trades-off cost reduction and information gathering. This comes at the cost of reasoning about beliefs. Exact solutions are often only possible in heavily restricted setups (Littman, 1996; Kaelbling et al., 1998; Cassandra et al., 1998). Thus, much of the research on belief planning focuses on efficient approximations, e.g. by representing the value function as a maximum over a set of vectors (Parr and Russell, 1995) or by reducing the continuous space of beliefs to a discrete set of representative points (Pineau et al., 2003).

Continuous state spaces present a further challenge to belief planning, as there is no trivial solution to representing beliefs over a continuous state space. Here, particle filters are a popular approximation (Thrun, 1999). Indeed particle filters have enabled a range of tree search algorithms capable of handling continuous state, observation and action spaces (Sunberg and Kochenderfer, 2017; Sunberg et al., 2017).

Gaussian beliefs are another common choice, used with extended or unscented Kalman filters. Several works present belief planning approaches for the Gaussian case (Todorov, 2005). Platt et al. (2010) do belief planning with EKFs by reducing the space of possible observations to the mode of the emission distribution. van den Berg et al. (2021) seek to approximate the composition of transition, emission and state estimation in an EKF. Rafieisakhaei et al. (2017) improve LQG planning by planning around a previously computed trajectory and optimising for state estimation accuracy. A notable work by Rahman and Waslander (2020) allows application to vision-based observations by approximating the posterior belief given an observation using the number of features in the observation.
