It took the algorithm more than 18 hours to reduce the gap for DecTiger(3,1,0.9). However, in hindsight, one can observe that the lower bound arrives at a near optimal value relatively quickly (At the 3 hour mark, the lower bound is already at 5.9919, not too far from the final value of 6.7236). In DecTiger(3,1,0.99), the gap is still large at the 24 hours mark. However, we conjecture that the solution reported at 24 hours is already close to optimal, and the gap will continue to decrease with run time.

We would like to note that directly applying offthe-shelf POMDP solvers to any of the instances we used is out of the question on our computer: We have tried to apply the state-of-the-art HSVI2 solver [8] on MultiCast(5,5,0.1,0.2,0.9), which has 36 states, 4 observations, and $2 ^ { 1 2 }$ actions/prescriptions. The program took more than 1 hour just to initialize the solver (in this stage, the algorithm does not output any solution if one terminates the algorithm). In comparison, the instances we solved are much bigger: The number of states, observations, and actions/prescriptions for the coordinator’s POMDP of our instances is listed in Table II. Given that the complexity of the initialization stage of HSVI2 algorithm (which computes an upper bound with the Fast Informed Bound method [8]) is linear in the number of actions/prescriptions, we project that it would take at least 2.7 days for MultiCast (8,8,0.1,0.2,0.9) and 194 days for any other instances just to initialize the HSVI2 solver.

<table><tr><td></td><td> $|\mathcal{S}|$ </td><td> $|\mathcal{O}|$ </td><td> $|\bar{\mathcal{A}}|$ </td></tr><tr><td>DecTiger (2,1, $\beta$ )</td><td>74</td><td>37</td><td> $3^{14}$ </td></tr><tr><td>DecTiger (3,1, $\beta$ )</td><td>435</td><td>145</td><td> $4^{26}$ </td></tr><tr><td>MultiCast (8,8,0.1,0.2,0.9)</td><td>64</td><td>4</td><td> $2^{18}$ </td></tr><tr><td>MultiCast (16,16,0.2,0.4,0.9)</td><td>256</td><td>4</td><td> $2^{34}$ </td></tr></table>

TABLE IIDIMENSIONS OF THE COORDINATOR’S POMDP.
