# III. INTEGRATOR AND ROBUST POLICY OPTIMIZATION

With a simulation environment, training data can be collected cheaply and safely. However, since the simulation never describes the real-world system perfectly, there is a risk that RL will learn a controller that accounts also for errors in the simulation model [15].

In set-point control, it is well-known that a pure statefeedback controller will result in a static error if the true gains of the system are not perfectly known. It is also well-known that this problem can be overcome by making use of integrating control [24]. Using integrated errors is however not standard in the RL field. Here it will therefore be explored how this idea can be incorporated into the RLframework.

Define the control error

$$\varepsilon_ {t} = y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}} - y _ {t}.$$

Then the (discrete-time) integrated control error can be evaluated as

$$z _ {t} = z _ {t - 1} + \varepsilon_ {t}. \tag {5}$$

In the literature on adaptive control, there are several results on tuning PID-controllers in a model-free manner [2], [3], [23]. However, these fix the structure of the policy to be linear in $\varepsilon _ { t }$ and $z _ { t } .$ In this paper, the goal is rather to combine the power of integrating control with the generality of RL in the regulation of nonlinear dynamic systems. To achieve this, the extended state vector

$$
\tilde {x} _ {t} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} x _ {t} ^ {T} & z _ {t} \end{array} \right] ^ {T}. \tag {6}
$$

can be used to train a policy on the form $\pi _ { \theta } ( \tilde { x } _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } )$ using standard RL-methods.

However, this is not enough. Suppose the controller is trained on a fixed model $f _ { p } .$ . In that case, the RL-methods can and typically will find a controller that adjusts the gains depending on the set-points, instead of directly making use of the integrated error. That is, the resulting control signal will not depend on the integrated error. This situation is illustrated in Figure 1.

To force the policy to learn how to use the integrator and to handle the uncertainties about the system, it is proposed to use an ensemble of simulation models:

$$\mathcal {F} _ {\mathcal {P}} = \{f _ {p} \mid p \in \mathrm{supp} (\mathcal {P}) \}, \tag {7}$$
