The HSVI algorithm distinguishes itself from previous algorithms through its use of an upper-bound based heuristic search procedure, as it is defined in the function ChooseNext. To determine the next belief to explore, the algorithm first optimistically chooses an action that maximizes the action-value function (or Q-function) associated with the upper bound. Then, the algorithm picks an observation that maximizes the excess gap. This procedure allows the algorithm to focus on the beliefs where the current gap between the upper bound and lower bound is unsatisfactory.

The lower bound function L in HSVI is represented as a set of α-vectors. Its update function L.Update(b) adds a new α-vector to the set by performing the backup operation at b. The algorithm also periodically prunes certain dominated α- vectors in the set.

Unlike the lower bound, the upper bound function in HSVI is represented through the lower convex hull of a set of isolated points $( b , \bar { v } _ { b } ) \in \Delta ( \mathcal { S } ) \times \mathbb { R } , \mathrm { i . e . }$ ., let B be a matrix whose n column vectors represent n beliefs and $\bar { v } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be a vector representing the upper bound values of those beliefs, then for any $b \in \Delta ( \mathcal { S } )$ ,

$$U (b) = \min \{\bar {v} ^ {T} \eta : \eta \in \mathbb {R} _ {+} ^ {n}, \mathbf {B} \eta = b. \} \tag {5}$$

This representation is based on the fact that $V ^ { * }$ is convex. Let T be the Bellman operator as defined in Section II-B.1. The U.Update(b) procedure in Algorithm 2 computes

$$\bar {v} _ {b} := T U (b) = \max _ {a \in \mathcal {A}} r (b, a) + \beta \sum_ {o \in \mathcal {O}} \mathbb {P} (o | b, a) U (\tau (b, a, o)) \tag {6}$$

and then adds $( b , \bar { v } _ { b } )$ to the point set used for convex hull. The algorithm also removes redundant points in the set periodically. The procedure returns $a ^ { \ast } \in { \mathcal { A } }$ , an optimizer of (6), for potential future use in the search heuristics.
