# 1. INTRODUCTION

During the last decade, reinforcement learning (RL) has made significant improvements, resulting in for example computers playing GO (Silver et al., 2016), Atari games (Mnih et al., 2015) and even realistic driving games (Wurman et al., 2022), performing beyond human-level. This has also led to an increased interest in applying RL to nonlinear control problems. In this paper the focus will be on set point control. In this case (model-free) RLmethods can be seen as (direct) nonlinear adaptive control methods (Krstic et al., 1995; ˚Astr¨om and Wittenmark, 2013), and the same effects that limit adaptive control are likely to affect RL. In this paper it will indeed be seen that even for the relatively simple problem of level control in a cascaded double tank process, state of the art RLmethods may require long times to learn, sometimes they even fail completely. While there are several reasons why RL-methods struggle, this paper argues that one major reason is that they initially provide limited excitation of different amplitudes, and it is shown by experiments that this problem can be mitigated by the introduction of a simple guiding feedback controller.

In system identification and adaptive control it is wellknown that in order to learn how to control a system, the data collected must excite the system dynamics. In RL this is called exploration. There is a vast literature on exploration in RL, cf. (Jin et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2017; Nair et al., 2018), but the practical state of the art algorithms for deep RL often just add white probing noise to the input, either explicitly (Fujimoto et al., 2018; Silver et al., 2014) or implicitly via a stochastic control policy (Schulman et al., 2017; Haarnoja et al., 2018). While this is an efficient way to excite different frequencies, it does not by itself ensure that the system gets excited in amplitude, even though this is important for nonlinear systems, cf. (Wigren, 1993).
