Our method differs from these works in a number of ways. First, we look at the expected error of a state estimator. The expected error will be essentially the same as the entropy if the state estimate is the true posterior (or an accurate approximation), but is also applicable to state estimators that are not accurate approximations of the true posterior in all cases and ones that produce a point estimate. Second, we limit expected tracking errors into the future (beyond the planning horizon) and rely on approximate dynamic programming techniques for that, which is an aspect we have not found in the literature. Finally, since our approach only operates in state space, we are able to work on high-dimensional problems where (approximate) belief planning is typically infeasible, e.g. problems with image observations.

Several recent papers showed great results on partially observable problems using model-based methods (Karl et al., 2017; Hafner et al., 2019; Becker-Ehmck et al., 2020; Hafner et al., 2020). These works learn a policy that works with full state information by simulating the problem with a generative model. At test time, an inference network maps the observation stream to a latent state, which is passed to the policy. This strategy is similar to MPC with a state estimator: the policy takes the current state estimate and tries to find an optimal strategy. The work of Igl et al. (2018) and Han et al. (2020) are notable exceptions, as they train policies in belief space. Similarly, Lee et al. (2019) have presented a latent space algorithm which approximates belief planning. Our work mainly differs from these in that we focus on MPC, which has desirable properties such as state-constraints, stability and performance guarantees.

Finally, we would like to point the reader to the field of dual control (Mesbah, 2018), which contains methods building on MPC that deal with the trade-off between cost reduction and state estimation (Kohler et al. ¨ , 2021).
