# I. INTRODUCTION

Properties of dynamical systems over networks have been a subject of significant research over the last two decades. A problem of interest the coordination of agents in a network through localized feedback, leading to the prototypical distributed consensus dynamics, studied early on by [1]– [3]. Over the years, it has become clear that the structural constrains imposed by the network topology in consensus problems often lead to fundamentally poor dynamic behaviors in large networks. This concerns controllability [4], performance [5], [6] and disturbance propagation [7], [8], but, as recently highlighted in [9], also stability. The poor stability properties characterized in earlier work [9] (which motivate the present work) apply to higher-order consensus, where the local dynamics of each agent is modeled as an nth order integrator, with $n \ \geq \ 2$ , and the control is a weighted average of neighbors’ relative states. This is a theoretical generalization of first-order consensus [10], but is also relevant in practice. For example, a model where $n = 3$ and thus has consensus in position, velocity and acceleration, can capture flocking behaviors [11].

More specifically, [9] shows that conventional high-order consensus $( n \geq 3 )$ is not scalably stable for many growing graph structures. When the network grows beyond a certain size, stability is lost. The same holds for second-order consensus $( n \ : = \ : 2 )$ in, for example, directed ring graphs, as also described in [12]. To address this lack of scalable stability we propose an alternative generalization of the firstorder consensus dynamics, which we prove achieves scalable The authors are with the Department of Automatic Control and the ELLIIT Strategic Research Area at Lund University, Lund, Sweden. Email: {jonas.hansson, emma.tegling}@control.lth.se

This work was partially funded by Wallenberg AI, Autonomous Systems and Software Program (WASP) funded by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and the Swedish Research Council through Grant 2019-00691. stability for any model order n.

To illustrate our proposed controller, consider the conventional second-order consensus system where the controller $u ( t ) = - L _ { 1 } \dot { x } ( t ) - L _ { 2 } x ( t ) + u _ { \mathrm { r e f } } ( t )$ , with $L _ { 1 , 2 }$ being weighted graph Laplacians, is used to achieve the closed loop
