In the early studies, researchers mainly focused on PID controller design and linearized quadrotor dynamics, neglected some aerodynamic coefficients and ignored faults. Salih et al. designed a PID controller for a quadrotor UAV and neglected the inertia matrix of the aircraft and the gyroscopic effect caused by the propellers’ rotation [14]. Ma et al. proposed a fuzzy PID controller for a quadrotor UAV, linearized the nonlinear system and neglected drag coefficients, aerodynamic, Coriolis and gyroscopic effects [15]. Shang et al. designed a fractional-order PID controller for a quadrotor UAV and ignored some small coefficients in the transfer function of the system [16]. Khatoon et al. compared PID and LQR controllers for a quadrotor UAV and linearized system about a certain operating point for using an LQR controller. It is concluded that the LQR controller is more robust and generates low steady-state error [17]. Huang et al. developed a backstepping controller, ignored some small coefficients related to inertia moments during the controller design process and compared results with a classical PID controller. It is observed that the backstepping controller has a lower settling time and faster time response than the PID controller [18]. Yu et al. developed an integral sliding mode controller for a quadrotor UAV and replaced the signum function with the saturation function to minimize the chattering effect in the controller’s equations. Yu et al. also compared simulation results with the traditional PID controller and observed that the sliding mode controller converged rapidly to the attitude reference and showed better performance [19].
