the presence of a fictitious player, called the coordinator. At each time, the information available for each agent is partitioned into two parts, the common information and the private information. At each time, instead of letting each individual agent decide on their actions, the coordinator selects a prescription for each agent, which is a mapping from that agent’s private information to its actions. The choice of prescription is based solely on the common information. In principle, the coordinator’s problem can be solved using single-agent POMDP algorithms.

Single-agent POMDPs are nevertheless not easy to solve. Exact value iteration methods of solving POMDPs through updating a set of support vectors of the value function, namely α-vectors, were introduced in [2], [3]. However, these methods were practical only for problems with very few states [4]. A class of approximate solution methods, called point-based methods [5], [6], [7] have been quite successful in approximately solving POMDP problems with hundreds or thousands of states (e.g. PBVI [5] is the first algorithm to demonstrate great performance on the 870-state Tag problem. HSVI2 [8] is capable of tackling the 12, 545- state RockSample[7,8] problem). These methods are built on the following premise: Instead of computing all α-vectors, one can efficiently approximate the Bellman update through point-based backup procedures, i.e., computing a relatively small subset of α-vectors representing the gradients of the updated value function at certain belief points (see [4] for a comprehensive survey and a tutorial on such methods).
