# Appendix C. Computational Cost of Filter-Aware MPC

Filter-aware MPC adds minimal computational cost on top of vanilla MPC.

We give a loose overview in table 1. Filter-aware planning has an additional cost of evaluating the trackability network in every stage of the planning horizon. Full belief planning additionally requires evaluating the emission model and the state estimator.

A runtime comparison between state planning, filter-aware planning and belief planning would depend on the runtimes of the individual components. For instance, if the dynamics D are much more expensive than the rest, we would expect all three to behave similarly. On the other hand, if the trackability network is much more expensive to evaluate than the cost and the dynamics, filter-aware planning would be noticeably slower than state planning. In environments involving high-dimensional observations such as images, the emission and state estimation steps would be much more expensive than the rest, making belief planning intractable.

We have computed runtimes for our implementation in each experiment and compare these in table 2. First, we would note that our method works in real time in all environments except ViZDoom, where vanilla MPC also does not run in real-time. We surmise that planning in ViZDoom is slowed down by several factors. The first is the terminal cost evaluation. Our terminal cost in ViZDoom is the length of the shortest path to the target, which is pre-computed for every location in state-space using dynamic programming and then stored in a 2D array. During planning, we read from this array via bilinear interpolation using the agent’s continuous 2D location. This operation might slow down the execution. Another potential source of issue is the collision modelling. Here we have an inefficient implementation which simply checks for collisions against every obstacle, even ones that are infeasibly far away.

Similar to ViZDoom, we see that vanilla and filter-aware MPC share the same runtime for the reacher setup. We assume that the planning is bottlenecked by the dynamics modelling through Brax in this environment. In the toy setup and in AI2-THOR we find that filter-aware MPC runs slower by factors of 1.6 and 1.75 respectively.

<table><tr><td>method</td><td>toy</td><td>vizdoom</td><td>ai2thor</td><td>reacher</td></tr><tr><td>vanilla</td><td>192 Hz</td><td>3 Hz</td><td>28 Hz</td><td>46 Hz</td></tr><tr><td>filter-aware</td><td>119 Hz</td><td>3 Hz</td><td>16 Hz</td><td>45 Hz</td></tr></table>

Table 2: Runtimes in each environment.
