At the same time, the fact that we learn trackability as a function of the state means that we can only reason about state estimation errors which can be modelled as a function of the state. Our experiments feature environments where this is the case and state estimation errors result from local features of a region of space (e.g. due to the presence of a reflective surface). As a counter-example, consider the Heaven and Hell problem by Thrun (1999). Here, an agent has to reach either the north-western or south-eastern corner of a room, which is decided randomly without the agent’s knowledge. To find out its destination, the agent has to travel to the north-eastern corner and ask an oracle. In Heaven and Hell, it is equally hard to estimate the location of the goal until the agent queries the oracle. Once the agent has asked the oracle, state estimation is possible all across the room. We cannot reason about the state estimation accuracy by looking at the state alone in Heaven and Hell, because it depends on whether the agent has interacted with the oracle already. In other words, we need to know the interaction history.

<table><tr><td>method</td><td>operations</td></tr><tr><td>state planning</td><td> $J + h * (D + C)$ </td></tr><tr><td>filter-aware planning</td><td> $J + h * (D + C + T)$ </td></tr><tr><td>belief planning</td><td> $J + h * (D + C + E + F)$ </td></tr></table>

Table 1: Operations involved in planning. The letters denote evaluations of D - the dynamics model, J - the terminal cost, C - the stage cost, T - the trackability network, E - the emission model, F - the state estimator. The planning horizon is denoted by h.
