$$
R = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} c \theta c \psi & s \varphi s \theta c \psi - c \varphi s \psi & c \varphi s \theta c \psi + s \varphi s \psi \\ c \theta s \psi & s \varphi s \theta s \psi + c \varphi c \psi & c \varphi s \theta s \psi - s \varphi c \psi \\ - s \theta & s \varphi c \theta & c \varphi c \theta \end{array} \right] \tag {1}
$$

where

$$c = \cos , \quad s = \sin \tag {2}$$

?? matrix represents the Inertia matrix and includes diagonal elements with their product equal to 0, having $I _ { x } , I _ { y } , I _ { z }$ moments of inertia. The matrix of Inertia is given in (3).

$$
I = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} I _ {x} & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & I _ {y} & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & I _ {z} \end{array} \right] \tag {3}
$$

The forces produced by rotors and moments have been explained by (4) and (5) as:

$$F _ {i} = K _ {f} \Omega_ {i} ^ {2} \tag {4}M _ {i} = K _ {m} \Omega_ {i} ^ {2} \tag {5}$$

where $K _ { f }$ and $K _ { m }$ are constant coefficients, $\varOmega _ { i } ^ { 2 }$ defines the $\mathrm { i ^ { t h } }$ angular velocity. The actuator dynamics are represented in (6). $U _ { 1 } , U _ { 2 } , U _ { 3 } , U _ { 4 }$ are control inputs. ?? describes the total thrust produced by the propellers. $T _ { \varphi } , T _ { \theta } , T _ { \psi }$ , are torques along the respective axes. ?? presents the arm length of the quadrotor.

$$
u = \left[ \begin{array}{c} U _ {1} \\ U _ {2} \\ U _ {3} \\ U _ {4} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c} F \\ T _ {\varphi} \\ T _ {\theta} \\ T _ {\psi} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} K _ {f} & K _ {f} & K _ {f} & K _ {f} \\ 0 & - l K _ {f} & 0 & l K _ {f} \\ l K _ {f} & 0 & - l K _ {f} & 0 \\ - K _ {m} & K _ {m} & - K _ {m} & K _ {m} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} \Omega_ {1} ^ {2} \\ \Omega_ {2} ^ {2} \\ \Omega_ {3} ^ {2} \\ \Omega_ {4} ^ {2} \end{array} \right] (6)
$$

The quadrotor’s dynamical model is defined as

$$\ddot {\varphi} = \dot {\psi} \dot {\theta} (\frac {I _ {y} - I _ {z}}{I _ {x}}) + \dot {\theta} \Omega_ {R} \frac {J _ {R}}{I _ {x}} + \frac {l}{I _ {x}} U _ {2} \tag {7}\ddot {\theta} = \dot {\psi} \dot {\theta} (\frac {I _ {z} - I _ {x}}{I _ {y}}) + \dot {\varphi} \Omega_ {R} \frac {J _ {R}}{I _ {x}} + \frac {l}{I _ {y}} U _ {3} \tag {8}\ddot {\psi} = \dot {\varphi} \dot {\theta} (\frac {I _ {x} - I _ {y}}{I _ {z}}) + \frac {l}{I _ {z}} U _ {4} \tag {9}\ddot {X} = (\cos \varphi \sin \theta \cos \psi + \sin \psi \sin \varphi) \frac {U _ {1}}{m} \tag {10}\ddot {Y} = (\cos \varphi \sin \theta \sin \psi - \cos \psi \sin \varphi) \frac {U 1}{m} \tag {11}\ddot {Z} = (\cos \theta \cos \varphi) \frac {U _ {1}}{m} - g \tag {12}$$
