# V. SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED METHOD

The proposed method is thus a combination of three key ideas:

1) Make use of an ensemble of simulation models to improve robustness to uncertainties in the parameters; see Section III.   
2) Include the integrated control error in the state vector to find a policy that can track the set-point when the parameters change or that can handle unmodelled disturbances; see Section III.   
3) Start from a prior controller to guide the policy to approach the desired set-point $y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ and thus assist the exploration, see Section IV.

While each of these ideas is a simple extension of the standard multi-goal RL framework, the combination of them is important. Without the prior controller, algorithms like PPO may require a very long learning time to handle the multigoal case, since the initial training data is not very informative. Without the integrator, there is no fixed policy that can handle changing parameters and unmodelled disturbances, a fact that would prevent safe real-world deployment. Without robustness from the model ensemble, the trained policy can “overfit” the simulation environment, and the trained policy may not work well on the real-world target. For example, if the policy is trained in a fixed environment perfect tracking can be achieved without the integrated control error, and thus it may never learn to utilize this extra information. This is already shown by example in Section III.

The implementation of the method is straightforward. Given the user inputs, the prior controller $\kappa ,$ the desired set-points distribution G, and the model ensemble $\mathcal { F } _ { \mathcal { P } }$ , the experience is collected by resetting the set-point and model at the beginning of each iteration. The policy is then directly trained by a model-free deep-RL method such as PPO. The summary of the method is shown in Algorithm 1.

Algorithm 1 PIME for robust policy optimization   
Input: Policy $\pi_{\theta}$ with a prior controller $\kappa$ , the desired set-points distributions G, model ensembles $F_{P}$ 1: for iteration=1,2,...,do

2: Collect data with M different set-points over M different models

3: for $m=1,2,\ldots,M$ do

4: Sample $y_{t}^{ref,m}$ from G, sample p from P uniformly and get the model $f_{p}$ 5: Reset the dynamic system $f_{p}$ , randomly initialize the state $x_{0}$ and the integrator $z_{0}=0$ 6: for $t=0\ldots T-1$ , do
