It is clear from the simulations in Fig. 8-11 that the quadrotor can follow the given sinusoidal references with almost 0 error. The references for roll, pitch, and yaw angles are in radians, and the reference for altitude is in meters. The red line in the graphs represents the given sinusoidal reference, while the blue line shows the trajectory followed by the quadrotor. The part between 5 and 5.2 seconds in the graphs has been enlarged to provide a clearer observation of the reference (red line) and the trajectory followed by the quadrotor (blue line).

Table 2 gives the time response (rise time, overshoot and settling time) values of the controller without rotor failure. Rise time is defined as the time required for a signal to change from 10% to 90% of a specified value. Overshoot is the occurrence of a signal exceeding its target. Settling time is the time required by the response to reach and steady within a specified range of 2 % of its final value. When the data in Table 2 is carefully examined, it is seen that the references of roll, pitch and yaw angles are followed with a slight overshoot of around 0.5%. The altitude reference is followed by an overshoot of 2.2%. The controller followed the roll, pitch and yaw references very closely from the start of the simulation and never left the ± 2% range. Therefore, the settling time is 0 seconds for these references. The altitude reference shows a little more overshoot and settles in the ±2% range in 0.25 seconds. In the absence of rotor error, the controller can follow the given references almost without error.

Table 2. Time response of the controller without rotor failure

<table><tr><td>Reference</td><td>Rise time (s)</td><td>Overshoot (%)</td><td>Settling time (s)</td></tr><tr><td>Roll angle</td><td>1.828</td><td>0.503</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Pitch angle</td><td>1.828</td><td>0.503</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Yaw angle</td><td>1.829</td><td>0.505</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Altitude</td><td>1.818</td><td>2.2</td><td>0.25</td></tr></table>
