# IV. AIDED EXPLORATION IN THE AMPLITUDE DOMAIN

Exploration is generally a key to devising efficient RL algorithms. In the setting of model ensembles and multiple set-points, this is even more important. In control theory, this is known as excitation of the system dynamics [28].

In RL-methods, an often used way to achieve excitation is to add white probing noise to the controller. For example, in PPO the controller is defined via a Gaussian distribution $\pi _ { \theta } \big ( u _ { t } | \tilde { x } _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } \big )$ with mean $g _ { \theta } \big ( u _ { t } | \tilde { x } _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } \big )$ and some statedependent variance. While this is an efficient way of introducing excitation of different signal frequencies, it does by itself not give much exploration in the amplitude domain since the probing noise does not move the controlled variable in a systematic way [29]. In the set-point control setting, the exploration of amplitudes is however very important.

In the adaptive control literature, a common way to achieve exploration of amplitudes is to regularly change the set-point $y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ to force the controlled variable to move [28]. When the controller is restricted to be e.g. a PI-controller changing the set-point will directly influence the actions and move the controlled variable to a different average level in a systematic way, thus exciting different amplitudes. However, when a general neural network gθ is used, the training starts from a controller that chooses random actions independently of the current set-point. For this reason, it can take a long time before the RL-algorithm starts to explore relevant states.

In [19], it was noted that even with very limited knowledge about the environment, it is typically still easy to design a deterministic prior controller $\kappa ( \widetilde { x } _ { t } , y _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } } )$ that at least will move the controlled variable in the general direction of the set-point. By starting the training process from such a prior policy, the RL policy will explore the environment in a much more efficient way. One way to achieve this is to consider a stochastic Gaussian policy on the form

$$u _ {t} \sim \pi_ {\theta} (\kappa (\tilde {x} _ {t}, y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}}) + g _ {\theta} (\tilde {x} _ {t}, y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}}), \sigma_ {\theta} ^ {2}), \tag {8}$$

where θ is the parameter vector that should be trained and κ is the prior policy. So how should this prior policy be chosen? Here the ideas from PI-control are again useful. In many interesting environments, even an un-tuned PI-controller that results in stable operation will guide the controlled variable towards the set-points.
