Finally, we must ensure that stability of the closed loop in Fig. 2 implies $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus. Since the transfer matrix from u to y in Fig. 1 is stable it follows that $Y ( s )$ will be stable. This means that we have shown the following $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } L ^ { n - k } x ^ { ( k ) } ( t ) = 0 } \end{array}$ . By Assumption A1 the 0 eigenvalue of L is unique and therefore 0 is a unique eigenvalue of $L ^ { n - k }$ too. Subsequently, li $\mathrm { n } _ { t  \infty } x ^ { ( k ) } ( t ) \in \ker ( L ^ { n - k } )$ . Since $L ^ { n - k } \mathbf { 1 } _ { N } = \mathbf { 0 }$ it follows that ${ \mathrm { l i m } } _ { t \to \infty } x ^ { ( k ) } ( t ) \ \in$ span(1N ) and that the agents will reach consensus in all the $n - 1$ first time derivatives and thus achieve $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus.

It is worth noting that the norm bound on the uncertainty blocks $\Delta$ is independent of the number of agents in the system. Therefore, the serial consensus implementation is scalably robust in the sense that it allows equally sized perturbations regardless of network size. This is not the case for localized conventional consensus, following the results in [9].

2) Multiplicative perturbation: It is also possible to see the closed-loop serial consensus system as a series of interconnected first-order systems. Therefore it is also interesting to consider the robustness with respect to the individual factors. The following theorem gives a sufficient condition for the unforced closed loop system to achieve $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus.

Theorem 7: The following perturbed $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order serial consensus system

$$\left(s I + s \Delta_ {0} + (I + \Delta_ {n}) L _ {n}\right) \prod_ {k = 1} ^ {n - 1} \left(s I + (I + \Delta_ {k}) L _ {k}\right) X = U _ {\text { ref }}$$

where $U _ { \mathrm { r e f } } , \Delta _ { k } \in \mathcal { R } \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ and $L _ { k } = L _ { k } ^ { T }$ for $k = 1 , \dots , n .$ , achieves $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus if

$$\| \Delta_ {k} \| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} < 1, \text { for all } k$$

and

$$\left\| \Delta_ {0} \right\| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} + \left\| \Delta_ {n} \right\| _ {\mathcal {H} _ {\infty}} < 1.$$
