# IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS

We implemented the CHSVI algorithm in Python (https: //github.com/dwtang/chsvi). All BP and LP involved in the algorithm are solved with Gurobi Optimization Studio™. The hyperparameter ζ is set to 0.85. We terminate the

2The method only applies to BP where the constraints on two groups of variables are separate. The optimization problem of (17) does lie in this category.

Function U.Update(b):   
// U stores three sets of
    α-constraints: $C^{\ell}, \ell = 0, 1, 2$ Set $\ell \in \{0, 1, 2\}$ to be such that $b \in \Delta(S^{\ell})$ ;
if $\ell < 2$ then
    Compute $\bar{v}^{b}, \gamma^{i,*}$ , the optimal value and optimizer of the bilinear program (17);
else
    Compute $\bar{v}^{b}$ with (18);
    Set $\gamma^{i,*}$ to represent the null prescription;
Add $b^{T}y \leq \bar{v}^{b}$ to $C^{\ell}$ ;
Prune redundant α-constraints once in a while;
return $\gamma^{i,*}$ ;   
Algorithm 5: Upper Bound Update

algorithm when the gap between the upper and lower bounds is less than 0.01 or if the run time has exceeded 24 hours. The lower bounds are initialized through the fixed action bound in the same way as in [8]. The α-constraints used in upper bounds are initialized to be the marginal belief based constraints (see Appendix B.2) obtained from a relaxed POMDP problem where all private information are assumed to be common. We adapt the same pruning strategy as HSVI: For lower bounds, we only prune α-vectors that are pointwise dominated by another vector. For upper bounds, we remove redundant α-constraints through solving linear programs.

We run the algorithm on DecTiger and MultiCast instances defined in Appendix A.1 and A.2 respectively. The experiments are conducted on a computer with Intel Xeon® E3-1231 v3 CPU (4 cores, 3.4Ghz) and 16GB RAM. The results are shown in Table III and Figure 1, with additional plots in Appendix C. In the all instances except DecTiger(3,1,0.99), the algorithm is able to close the gap between the upper and lower bound and find a near optimal strategy. To the best of our knowledge, except when analytical solutions are available, these are the first provably optimal solutions for infinite-horizon multi-agent control problems.
