Compared to these approaches, our work will be suboptimal in the sense that it does not plan in the space of beliefs and is not capable finding the optimal balance between state estimation and cost reduction. On the other hand, our approach has several benefits. Filter-aware MPC plans in state space, which is generally simpler than planning in belief space for several reasons. First, the dynamics in state space are often simpler than those in belief space. Further, predicting forward in state space is computationally cheaper, since we are not forced to reason about the emission distribution or the state estimate update while planning. Belief planning in continuous state spaces also requires a tractable and rich enough representation of the belief for meaningful planning such as particle filters or Gaussian beliefs. We are not limited to such representations, and can work with any black-box state estimator. Indeed, our experiments feature both particle filters (in the toy setup and the reacher experiments) and a visual tracker that uses point-to-plane ICP (in ViZDoom and AI2-THOR), which only provides a maximum a-posteriori estimate of the state.

Another benefit of our approach is its applicability to high-dimensional observations such as images. By comparison, the tree-search algorithms presented in (Sunberg and Kochenderfer, 2017) and (Sunberg et al., 2017) are tested on much lower-dimensional environments. The work of Rahman and Waslander (2020) is applicable to image observations, but they rely on an approximation of the state posterior which only works with feature-based visual tracking. We side-step issues related to the observation dimensionality by only learning the error of the state estimator and carrying out the rest of our computations in state space.
