# D. A Novel Design: Serial Consensus

We propose the following controller of (3), expressed in the Laplace domain, to achieve $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus

$$U (s) = U _ {\text { ref }} (s) + \left(s ^ {n} I - \prod_ {k = 1} ^ {n} (s I + L _ {k})\right) X (s), \tag {5}$$

where $L _ { k }$ are graph Laplacians and $U _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ is the transformed reference signal. In this case, it is more instructive to consider the closed-loop dynamics, which take the following form:

Definition $\textit { 3 } ( n ^ { t h }$ order serial consensus system): For all $k \in \{ 1 , 2 \ldots , n \}$ , let $L _ { k }$ be a weighted and directed graph Laplacian. The $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } } .$ -order serial consensus system is then

$$\left(\prod_ {k = 1} ^ {n} (s I + L _ {k})\right) X (s) = U _ {\text { ref }} (s). \tag {6}$$

We call this form serial consensus because the same closed loop dynamics can also be achieved by interconnecting n first-order consensus systems in a series. The closed-loop dynamics in (6) can also be transformed to state-space form by introducing the alternative variables $\Xi _ { k }$ with the corresponding states $\xi _ { k }$ . These relate to X through $\Xi _ { 1 } =$ $X ( s ) , \Xi _ { k } = ( s I + L _ { k - 1 } ) \Xi _ { k - 1 }$ for $k \in \{ 2 , \ldots , n \mathrm { ~  ~ { ~ - ~ } ~ } 1 \}$ , and $s \Xi _ { n } ~ = ~ - L _ { n } \Xi _ { n } + U _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ . This leads to the following continuous-time state-space representation

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {\xi} _ {1} \\ \dot {\xi} _ {2} \\ \vdots \\ \dot {\xi} _ {n - 1} \\ \dot {\xi} _ {n} \end{array} \right] = \underbrace {\left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} - L _ {1} & I & & \\ & - L _ {2} & \ddots & \\ & & \ddots & I \\ & & & - L _ {n} \end{array} \right]} _ {A} \left[ \begin{array}{c} \xi_ {1} \\ \xi_ {2} \\ \vdots \\ \xi_ {n - 1} \\ \xi_ {n} \end{array} \right] + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 0 \\ \vdots \\ 0 \\ u _ {\text {ref}} \end{array} \right] \tag {7}
$$

The serial consensus form has several advantages, which will be the focus of the paper. First, however, we show that it satisfies the constraints we impose on the controller, as given by Definition 2. In other words, we will discuss how the closed-loop structure in (6) can be implemented on a network.

When analysing the serial consensus controller of (5) we will make use of the following assumption on the graph structure.

Assumption $A l { : }$ (Connected spanning tree) All graphs underlying the graph Laplacians $L _ { k }$ contain a connected spanning tree.
