# I. INTRODUCTION

Multi-agent control problems arise in a number of applications including in teams of autonomous agents or robots carrying out a mission, in communication networks with multiple users and in distributed systems like the smart grid. The problem typically involves multiple agents with potentially different information taking actions and interacting with a dynamic system. In cooperative multi-agent problems, the agents’ goal is to optimize a shared performance metric.

In this work, we assume that a control strategy can be determined offline collectively before interacting with the system (or centralized planning and decentralized execution as in Dec-POMDP literature). Even with centralized planning, multi-agent control problems can be significantly more difficult than their single-agent counterpart due to a variety of reasons: (1) due to the interdependent nature of all agents’ information, actions, and the system evolution dynamics, we need to determine the strategies of all agents at the same time; (2) the decision making process of an agent involves not only the estimation of the underlying state but also the estimation of other agent’s information, since it is crucial to predict other agents’ actions. By the same token, an agent also needs to understand what other agents may believe of the information and action of herself and so on, resulting in the need to form a complicated hierarchy of beliefs.

There are several structural approaches to transform or decompose a multi-agent control problem into single-agent control problems. One of these approaches is the common information (CI) approach [1]. In this approach, a multi-agent control problem is transformed into a single-agent partially observed Markov decision problem (POMDP) by assuming

Shorter version submitted to the 62nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC2023).

This work is supported by ONR award N00014-20-1-2258 and NSF awards ECCS-2025732 and ECCS-1750041.

D. Tang, A. Nayyar, and R. Jain are with Ming Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2560. Email: {dengwang, ashutosh.nayyar, rahul.jain}@usc.edu
