# 2. Related work

Astr ˚ om¨ (1965) was among the first to publish theoretical results on decision-making with missing information. Sondik (1971) developed a method for finite-horizon optimal control, showing that the value function is piecewise-linear in this setting. Later works dealt with the infinite horizon case (Sawaki and Ichikawa, 1978; Sondik, 1978). A large body of work focused on performance improvements for exact inference (Littman, 1996; Kaelbling et al., 1998; Cassandra et al., 1998). Others sought to find efficient approximations (Parr and Russell, 1995; Thrun, 1999; Zhang and Zhang, 2001; Pineau et al., 2003). Recent works presented tree search algorithms using particle filters (Sunberg and Kochenderfer, 2017; Sunberg et al., 2017), allowing to solve POMDPs with continuous states, controls and observations.

Many works focused on the case with Gaussian beliefs. These include (Platt et al., 2010), working with extended Kalman filter updates and (Todorov, 2005), which allows belief planning in an LQG setting with multiplicative noise. van den Berg et al. (2021) presented a value learning algorithm with the EKF. Rafieisakhaei et al. (2017) improved LQG planning by optimising for the lowest perception uncertainty. Rahman and Waslander (2020) introduced a vision-oriented approach with Gaussian beliefs where the uncertainty of the belief is constrained. Similar measures were taken in (Hovd and Bitmead, 2005) and (Bohm¨ , 2008).

Our approach in this paper is also related to coastal navigation (Roy and Thrun, 1999; Roy et al., 1999), which focuses on preserving the accuracy of the state estimate, rather than full planning in belief space. Similarly, belief roadmaps (Prentice and Roy, 2009) try to find a path from a start location to a target while minimising the uncertainty of an EKF. This was later extended to work with unscented Kalman filters (He et al., 2008). Belief roadmaps were built upon by Zheng et al. (2021) by constraining the covariance of the belief.
