# Appendix B. Approximating the Expected Future Tracking Error

Filter-aware MPC approximates ${ J } ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( { \bf z } _ { t } , { \bf h } _ { t } )$ , which is the expected future tracking error with $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } _ { t } , \mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } _ { t } } ^ { * } )$ , which is the expected future tracking error starting from a perfectly accurate initial state estimate. In our main text we have motivated this from a standpoint of practicality. Working with $\mathbf { h } _ { t }$ would force us to predict this quantity into the future while planning. Using $\mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } _ { t } } ^ { * }$ removes this need.

Here we would like to discuss another benefit of this approximation. Since we are interested in further approximating trackability with a neural network, the generalisation error of this network would be critical for downstream performance. If we were to try to learn ${ J } ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( { \bf z } _ { t } , { \bf h } _ { t } )$ , we would be approximating a function of both the system state $\mathbf { z } _ { t }$ and the state estimator carry $\mathbf { h } _ { t }$ . Since the carry subsumes the history of environment interactions, accurately approximating this function would force us to train the neural network with many different interaction histories. On the other hand, $J ^ { \mathrm { e r r } } ( \mathbf { z } _ { t } , \mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } _ { t } } ^ { * } )$ , the quantity we are actually interested in learning, is only a function of the system state $\mathbf { z } _ { t }$ (since $\mathbf { h } _ { \mathbf { z } _ { t } } ^ { * }$ is itself deterministically given by ${ \bf z } _ { t } )$ . Thus, accurately approximating this function does not require exhaustively exploring the space of environment interactions.
