In adaptive set-point control of nonlinear systems, the amplitude excitation is crucial, since the controller should learn how to handle different reference levels. This control objective is often called multi-goal in RL (Plappert et al., 2018). One problem for RL in such a setting is that it begins the learning without any prior knowledge. Hence, initially the RL-controller uses more or less white noise as input. The data collected in this way will typically not excite amplitudes sufficiently in the whole range of the control objective, therefore it can take a long time for the RL controller to learn even how to move towards the reference level. There is also a risk that the controller ends up in a saturated state, where the white probing noise has no effect on the output, which again leads to insufficient excitation. However, the problem of moving in the general direction of the reference signal is handled by feedback control, and it is often sufficient to use a roughly tuned proportional (P) controller to achieve the purpose.

This paper thus contributes by augmentation with a prior guiding feedback controller to any standard RL method. This controller ensures that the process react to commanded set point changes from the start, thereby providing the amplitude excitation needed for the RL-method to learn a good control policy. The paper argues that a simple P-controller is often sufficient, as illustrated by simulations and experiments on a real-world process. In other words, a simple feedback controller can ensure that the output will change when the set point changes, thus giving a more efficient exploration of different amplitudes. Note that the cascaded tank process used in the paper could be controlled with PID control. However, the scope of the paper is not to advocate RL for set-point control for mildly nonlinear processes, it is rather to demonstrate that set-point controlling RL methods need improvements also for such mildly nonlinear processes, to perform reasonably well. The proposed enhancements of the paper are therefore believed to become critical when RL is applied to set point control of severely nonlinear systems.
