# B. pH-Control

pH-control is a challenging control problem in the chemical industry since the process includes chemical equilibrium, kinetics, and mixing dynamics that together result in a highly nonlinear dynamic system that is notoriously hard to control well. One important issue is that the process buffer capacity varies over time [33]. Typically the buffer capacity is unknown and changes the gain of the system significantly, making it even harder to control. The pH-control of wastewater containing ammonia (NH3) and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) is considered here, stated as a continuous neutralization titration process by hydrochloric acid (HCl). The process is illustrated in Figure 2b. The chemical reaction equilibrium of the environment can be stated using a cubic equation for [H +] [29],

$$
\begin{array}{l} [ H ^ {+} ] ^ {3} + ([ N H _ {3} ] - [ H C l ] + [ N a O H ] + K) [ H ^ {+} ] ^ {2} (11) \\ + (K [ N a O H ] - K [ H C l ] - K K _ {w}) = 0, (12) \\ \end{array}
$$

where $[ N H _ { 3 } ] , [ H C l ] , [ N a O H ]$ are the concentration of the substances, and where K and $K _ { w }$ are the constants of the reaction. Using mass balances, it’s straightforward to obtain the following ODE that describes the mixing dynamics

$$[ \dot {H C l} ] (t) = - \frac {q _ {w w}}{V} [ H C l ] (t) + \frac {[ H C l , C ] q _ {[ H C l , C ]}}{V} u (t). \tag {13}$$

Here $q _ { w w }$ is the inlet flow, V is the reactor tank volume, [HCl, C] is a constant representing the concentration of the hydrochloric acid used for control, $q _ { [ H C l , C ] }$ represents a constant control flow, and u(t) is hence a relative quantity and not the flow itself. The mixing results in concentrations in the tank as before reactions take place, where the state is the hydrochloric acid concentration after mixing. The pH value at time step t can be calculated with $x ( t ) \ =$ $- l o g _ { 1 0 } [ H ^ { + } ] ( t )$ . In the simulation, the system is discretized using Euler’s method [32] with a sampling period of 20 seconds and the reward function at time step t is similar to (10) and defined as

$$R (x _ {t}, y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}}) = - (x _ {t} - y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}}) ^ {2}. \tag {14}$$

where $x _ { t }$ is the pH level of time step t. Also, in order to deal with the capacity uncertainty in terms of the inlet and outlet flows, the model ensemble is defined as

$$\mathcal {F} _ {\mathcal {P}} = \{p _ {1} = \frac {[ H C l , C ] q _ {[ H C l , C ]}}{V} \sim \mathcal {U} _ {3} (0. 0 0 5, 0. 0 1 5), \tag {15}p _ {2} = \frac {q _ {w w}}{V} \sim \mathcal {U} _ {4} (0. 0 0 1 5, 0. 0 0 2 5) \}. \tag {16}$$
