(d) Serial with $N = 1 3$   
Fig. 4: $3 ^ { \mathrm { r d } }$ order consensus in a chain of vehicles is considered. The plots show the intervehicle relative errors over time when the lead vehicle moves at constant acceleration. Panels (a) and (b) show that the addition of one agent destabilizes the closed loop for the conventional consensus. Panels (c) and (d) illustrate the fact that the serial consensus will remain stable under such agent additions.

$$U (s) = U _ {\text { ref }} + \left(s ^ {3} I - \prod_ {k = 1} ^ {3} (s I + L _ {N})\right) X (s)$$

will achieve consensus as long as the underlying graphs $\{ G _ { N } \}$ all contains a connected spanning tree. To illustrate this, consider the graph defined by $W \ { \bf \bar { \Phi } } \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$ , the adjacency matrix

$$
W _ {i, j} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text { if   } | i - j | = 1 \text {   and   } i \neq 1 \\ 0 & \text { else } \end{array} \right..
$$

This corresponds to a bidirectional string with a leader (Agent 1). Let L be the associated graph Laplacian. It is true that lim $_ { N  \infty } \lambda _ { 2 } ( L ) = 0$ and thus any conventional control design with L will eventually lead to an unstable closed loop. For this example, let the conventional control law be $u ( t ) = u _ { \mathrm { r e f } } ( t ) - 6 L \ddot { x } - 4 L \dot { x } - 2 L x$ and the serial consensus controller (5) be defined with the same graph Laplacians $L _ { k } = 2 k L$ . The response to a constant acceleration of the leader is shown in Fig. 4. Here we see that the addition of a 13th agent to the system destabilizes the closed loop for the conventional consensus while the serial consensus only loses some performance.
