# Appendix E. MPC and Terminal Costs

We use terminal costs for two of our experiments: the toy scenario and ViZDoom. These problems have sparse costs, which makes it necessary to use a terminal cost, which is then also the driving factor when planning. This is because the cost signal has the same value for every plan that is not close to the target. The standard MPC objective with a terminal cost is:

$$\mathbb {E} _ {\mathbf {z} _ {t} | \mathbf {x} _ {1: t}, \mathbf {u} _ {1: t - 1}} \left[ \sum_ {k = t} ^ {t + K} \beta^ {k - t} c (\mathbf {z} _ {t}, \mathbf {u} _ {t}) + \beta^ {K + 1} \hat {J} (\mathbf {z} _ {K}) \right]. \tag {7}$$

In practice we have found that we get better performance by using the λ-return as our objective. This is given by the following equations:

$$J ^ {\mathrm{MPC}} (\mathbf {z} _ {1} ^ {i}; \lambda) = (1 - \lambda) \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {T - 1} \lambda^ {k - 1} \hat {J} _ {k} ^ {\mathrm{MPC}} (\mathbf {z} _ {1} ^ {i}), \qquad \hat {J} _ {k} ^ {\mathrm{MPC}} (\mathbf {z} _ {1} ^ {i}) = \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {k} \beta^ {t - 1} \mathbf {c} _ {t} ^ {i} + \beta^ {k} \hat {J} (\mathbf {z} _ {k + 1} ^ {i}).$$

This is a weighted average over MPC objectives with different planning horizons. We believe it worked better than the regular MPC objective due to the sparseness of the cost and the stochastic dynamics. When the cost is sparse, the terminal cost is the only factor that guides planning, until the agent is close enough to the target to reach it within the planning horizon. This is an issue under stochastic dynamics because the transition error will build up towards the end of the planning horizon. The end of the planning horizon will have the highest prediction error, though it will also be the only place where we check the terminal cost.
