# III. COORDINATOR’S HSVI ALGORITHM

As noted earlier, compared to a regular single-agent POMDP, a coordinator’s POMDP will have an exponentially large number of actions. This makes both the lower bound and upper bound update of HSVI infeasible. More specifically, in the backup operations (2)-(4), we need to first solve $\left| { \bar { \mathcal { A } } } \right| \times \left| \mathcal { O } \right|$ discrete optimization problems in (2) and then solve an optimization problem over A¯ in (4). Also, to perform a Bellman update for the upper bound at belief point $b ,$ the HSVI algorithm needs to compute $U ( \tau ( b , \gamma , o ) )$ for all pairs of $( \gamma , o ) \in \bar { \mathcal { A } } \times \mathcal { O }$ . This is infeasible also due to the large number of actions in a coordinator’s POMDP.

In this section, we introduce the Coordinator’s Heuristic Search Value Iteration (CHSVI) algorithm, which combines the CI approach with the HSVI algorithm. Instead of applying HSVI directly on the coordinator’s POMDP, we apply HSVI on a multi-step extended form of coordinator’s POMDP. Through the use of the extended form and the structure of prescription space, we are able to simplify both the upper bound and lower bound update operations, creating a more practical algorithm.

Function HSVI:   
Input: A single-agent POMDP model
(S, A, O, b₀, P, r, β)
Output: A belief based policy π; an upper bound for V*(b₀) and lower bound for Vπ(b₀).
// ζ ∈ (0,1) is a hyperparameter.
Initialize U and L;
while Stopping criterion not satisfied do
    ε = ζ[U(b₀) - L(b₀)];
    Explore(U, L, b₀, ε);
    π = DirectControlPolicy(L);
    return π, U(b₀), L(b₀)

Function Explore(U, L, b, ε):
    // Modifies U, L
    a* = U.Update(b);
    L.Update(b);
    if U(b) - L(b) ≤ ε then return;
    (b', ε') = ChooseNext(U, L, b, a*, ε);
    Explore(U, L, b', ε');
    U.Update(b);
    L.Update(b);

Function ChooseNext(U, L, b, a*, ε):
    o* = arg max_{o∈O} P(o|b, a*)[U(τ(b, a*, o)) - L(τ(b, a*, o)) - ε/β];
    return τ(b, a*, o*), ε/β;   
Algorithm 2: Heuristic Search Value Iteration
