# 3.1. Control Allocation Algorithm

When one of the rotors loses its effectiveness by 60%, the controller should counter the loss of effectiveness and continue the reference track safely. The loss of actuator effectiveness is calculated by comparing the desired angular velocity of the rotor $( w _ { d } )$ with the actual angular velocity of the rotor (??). The loss of effectiveness (????) is calculated as in (30).

$$L E = (w _ {d} - w) / w _ {d} \tag {30}$$

The LE value is always between 0 and 1. When the ???? value is 0, there is no power loss in the rotor, and when it is 1, there is a 100% power loss in the rotor. When the ???? value rises above 0, the control allocation algorithm is activated, and the power loss in the rotor is compensated. When one of the propellers of the quadrotor fails, the quadrotor loses its balance. When the faults are determined, the angular velocity of the rotor opposite to the faulty rotor is calculated such that the torque balance is maintained. The control effectiveness of the quadrotor UAV is defined in (31).

$$k = 1 - L E \tag {31}$$

The control effectiveness vector is described in (32).

$$
K = \left[ \begin{array}{l} k _ {1} \\ k _ {2} \\ k _ {3} \\ k _ {4} \end{array} \right] \tag {32}
$$

where $k _ { i } \in [ 0 1 ]$ and $k _ { i } = 1$ means that the actuator is completely functional and $k _ { i } = 0$ describes the case where the actuator does not work at all. After the fault is detected, the control output is represented as

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} F \\ T _ {\varphi} \\ T _ {\theta} \\ T _ {\psi} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} K _ {f} & K _ {f} & K _ {f} & K _ {f} \\ 0 & - l K _ {f} & 0 & l K _ {f} \\ l K _ {f} & 0 & - l K _ {f} & 0 \\ - K _ {m} & K _ {m} & - K _ {m} & K _ {m} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} \Omega_ {1} ^ {2} \\ \Omega_ {2} ^ {2} \\ \Omega_ {3} ^ {2} \\ \Omega_ {4} ^ {2} \end{array} \right] \tag {33}
$$
