# B. A New Upper Bound Representation

In this section, we propose a new upper bound representation for POMDPs, called α-constraints based upper bound. Our motivation for finding a new upper bound representation comes from a weakness of the convex hull-based upper bound in extended coordinator’s POMDPs. We believe that our new upper bound can alleviate the weakness. In any case, the new upper bound is never worse (i.e. larger) than the original upper bound.

In HSVI, the upper bound function plays a very important role in the search heuristics. It is represented with a collection of isolated points $( b , v ^ { b } ) \in \Delta ( \mathcal { S } ) \times \mathbb { R }$ . The upper bounds at other belief points are obtained via convex hull based interpolation. While convex hull based upper bounds and their approximations have achieved empirical success [8], [7] on many single-agent POMDP problems, such bounds can be insufficient for the extended coordinator’s POMDP due to the following reason: For two probability distributions b and ˜b defined on the same space, we say that b is inexpressible with ˜b if in any convex combination that represents $b ,$ ˜b is not involved, i.e. its coefficient is 0. The inclusion of actions into the state space creates a exponentially large number of mutually inexpressible beliefs. As a result, the upper bound at those beliefs do not improve (i.e. become smaller) from their initial values unless it is explored by the algorithm. Due to the optimism-based exploration heuristics of these algorithms [8], [7], it is likely that the algorithm would end up exhaustively sampling those beliefs, resulting in a behavior similar to brute-force search.
