The values of the parameters of the model are the measured parameters from the real-world water tank with the ratio of the area of holes and the area of the cross sections of the tank being $a / A = 0 . 0 0 1 9$ , and the range of input voltage from the pump being [0, 10] V. The pump constant is 0.12 cm/Vs. The initial levels of the two tanks and the reference signal are generated uniformly between 0 and 10 cm at the beginning of each episode, which by itself gives some extra amplitude excitation. The reference signal was changed every 400 s. The prior policy for this task is a discrete-time proportional controller,

$$u _ {t} ^ {o} = g ^ {o} (x _ {t}, y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}}) = - K _ {p} (y _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{ref}} - y _ {t}) + u _ {0} \tag {17}$$

with $K _ { p } = 2$ and $u _ { 0 } = 5$ . Note that this is not a well-tuned P controller. The purpose of these experiments is not to compare the use of a P controller with RL methods, the purpose is instead to show the the inclusion of a roughly tuned prior P controller can improve standard RL methods substantially.

Real-world Water Tank Level Control The setup for the real water tank is the same as for the simulated one, with a sampling period of 2 seconds and a prior P-controller. However, the system is a bit different since the real tank can overflow. In addition, when the upper tank overflows, parts of the water enter the lower tank, and the rest flows to the container. This is not taken into account in simulations. Also, instead of using measured water levels as output, the sensors give noisy voltage measurements instead of the true water levels in each tank. The voltages of the sensors are proportional to the water levels.
