Function GenericPointBased:   
Input: A single-agent POMDP model $(\mathcal{S}, \mathcal{A}, \mathcal{O}, b_{0}, \mathbb{P}, r, \beta)$ Output: A belief based policy $\pi$ and a lower bound of $V^{\pi}(b_{0})$ Initialize V;
while Stopping criterion not satisfied do
    Choose belief point set B; $\alpha^{b} = \text{Backup}(\mathcal{V}, b)$ for all $b \in B$ ;
    Add $\{\alpha^{b}\}_{b \in B}$ to V;
    Prune dominated vectors in V once in a while; $\pi := \text{DirectControlPolicy}(\mathcal{V})$ ; $\underline{v} := \max_{\alpha \in V} \alpha^{T} b_{0}$ ;
return $\pi, \underline{v}$

Algorithm 1: A generic point-based algorithm for single-agent POMDP

Moreover, if the initial set  represents a uniformly improvable (as defined in [23]) lower bound of the optimal value function, then V will remain a uniformly improvable lower bound after inserting new α-vectors from point-based updates. It can also be shown that [8] in this case, the value of the direct control policy1 obtained from is lower bounded by V , the piece-wise linear convex function with α- vectors V. Therefore we have a theoretical guarantee of the resulting policy. A generic framework for many point-based algorithms (e.g. [25], [6], [7], [26]) is shown in Algorithm 1. These algorithms all share the same backup procedure. They differ mostly in how they determine the set of belief points to perform backups on.

2) Heuristic Search Value Iteration: The HSVI algorithm in [6] is summarized in Algorithm 2. In addition to a set of α-vectors that represent a lower bound for the optimal value function $V ^ { * }$ , the algorithm maintains an upper bound of $V ^ { * }$ as well. At each time, the algorithm performs a depth-first search to select a few belief points. The algorithm updates both the upper bound and lower bound at those beliefs. In those updates, the algorithm computes exact Bellman updates of the upper and lower bounds at those beliefs, and incorporate the new values back into the bounds. As a result, the lower bound increases and upper bound decreases over time. HSVI is an anytime algorithm that always tries to shrink the gap between the upper and the lower bound. Once the algorithm terminates once a certain stopping criteria is met, it returns the direct control policy associated with the α-vectors used for the lower bound function.
