# 5 Conclusions, Broader Impact, and Limitations

In this work, we considered the problem of learning the optimal (steady-state) Kalman gain for linear systems with unknown process and measurement noise covariances. Our approach builds on the duality between optimal control and estimation, resulting in a direct stochastic Policy Optimization (PO) algorithm for learning the optimal filter gain. We also provided convergence guarantees and finite sample complexity with bias and variance error bounds that scale well with problem parameters. In particular, the variance is independent of the length of data trajectories and scales logarithmically with problem dimension, and bias term decreases exponentially with the length.

This work contributes a generic optimization algorithm and introduces a filtering strategy for estimating dynamical system states. While theoretical, it raises privacy concerns similar to the model-based Kalman filter. Limitations include the need for prior knowledge of system parameters; nonetheless, parameter uncertainties can be treated practically as process and measurement noise. Finally, sample complexities depend on the stability margin $1 - \sqrt { \rho ( A _ { L } ) }$ , inherent to the system generating the data.

Finally, a direction for future research is to study how to adapt the proposed algorithm and error analysis for the setting when a single long trajectory is available as opposed to several independent trajectories of finite length. Another interesting direction is to carry out a robustness analysis, similar to its LQR dual counterpart, to study the effect of the error in system parameters on the policy learning accuracy. Of course, the ultimate research goal is to use the recently introduced duality in nonlinear filtering [23] as a bridge to bring tools from learning to nonlinear filtering.
