$$x _ {k + 1} = \underbrace {A x _ {k} + \overline {{{B}}} \mu^ {\star} (x _ {k})} _ {f (x _ {k})} + \overline {{{B}}} d (z _ {k}, x _ {k}), \tag {6}$$

where $d ( z , x ) : = z - \mu ^ { \star } ( x ) , z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N m } , x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , is thought of as a disturbance acting on the optimal dynamics $( 2 ) ,$ introduced due to suboptimality. We denote the combined system-optimizer state $\dot { s } _ { k } : = [ x _ { k } ^ { \top } ~ z _ { k } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ for all $k \geq 0 .$ .

In this work, we are interested in the transient performance of the closed-loop suboptimal dynamics (6). This is captured in terms of the algorithm’s incurred additional cost due to its approximations, i.e. the incurred suboptimality, defined as

$$\mathcal {R} (x _ {0}; \ell_ {[ 0, \dots , T - 1 ]}) := J _ {T} (x _ {0}, \boldsymbol {u} ^ {\ell}) - J _ {T} (x _ {0}, \boldsymbol {u} ^ {\star}), \tag {7}$$

where, $\begin{array} { r l r } { { \bf { \nabla } } u ^ { \ell } } & { { } : = } & { [ { z } _ { 0 } ^ { \top } \ldots { z } _ { T - 1 } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top } } \end{array}$ denotes the sequence of inputs generated by the suboptimal policy on the suboptimal trajectory generated by (6), and $u ^ { \star } \quad : = \quad$ $[ \mu ^ { \star \top } ( x _ { 0 } ) . . . \mu _ { T - 1 } ^ { \star \top } ( x _ { T - 1 } ^ { \star } ) ] ^ { \top }$ the equivalent for the optimal policy and the optimal trajectory generated by (2). Note that is a function of $\ell _ { k } { - } s$ which are the main parameters indicating the level of approximation in the policy. Quantifying the transient accumulated suboptimality as a comparative metric due to suboptimal choices with respect to a more powerful benchmark is inspired by online learning, where a similar notion of regret is used, and the suboptimality is due to some uncertainty in the problem rather than limited computational budget. Although the system to be controlled is linear time-invariant, the closed loop systems of interest, (2) and (5), under the optimal and suboptimal policies, respectively, are nonlinear. Hence, our results make use of the standard notion of local exponential stability.

Definition 1: Consider a nonlinear autonomous system $x _ { k + 1 } = f ( x _ { k } )$ for all $k \in \mathbb N ,$ , with $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ having an equilibrium point $\hat { x } = { \bf 0 }$ . The system is said to be locally exponentially stable with a decay rate of $\lambda \in ( 0 , 1 )$ if there exist $\gamma , c \in \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ , such that for all $k \geq 0$

$$\left\| x _ {k} \right\| \leq \gamma \left\| x _ {0} \right\| \lambda^ {k}, \quad \forall \left\| x _ {0} \right\| \leq c.$$

2The subscript of $\ell _ { k }$ is dropped when it is taken to be a constant.
