# 3 Decision Bounded Markov Decision Process

The standard reinforcement learning setting (Sutton & Barto, 2018) involves an agent that can take actions to cause state transitions in the environment, and in the process gain rewards. The environment is represented as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) (Puterman, 1990). The goal of the agent is to maximize the amount of reward it gets during a single episode. Reinforcement learning problems are defined as typically defined as a 6-tuple $( S , \mathcal { A } , p , R , d _ { 0 } , \gamma )$ . Where:

• $s$ : set of all possible states in the environment   
• $\mathcal { A } \mathrm { : }$ set of all possible actions the agent can take   
• $p \mathrm { : }$ Transition function that defines how the environment changes. This is hidden from the agent. $p : S \times A \times S  [ 0 , 1 ]$

• $R \colon$ Reward function. Typically hidden from the agent. $R : { \mathcal { S } } \times { \mathcal { A } } $ R   
• $d _ { 0 } \mathbf { : }$ Initial state distribution. $d _ { 0 } : S  [ 0 , 1 ]$   
• $\gamma \colon$ discount factor

The agent is characterized by a policy $\pi : \mathcal { S \times A } \to [ 0 , 1 ]$ The objective of the agent is to learn the optimal policy $\pi ^ { 8 }$ , that maximises the expected sum of discounted rewards:

$$J (\pi) := \mathbb {E} \left[ \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \gamma^ {t} R _ {t} | \pi \right] := \mathbb {E} \left[ G _ {t} | \pi \right] \tag {1}$$

where $R _ { t }$ is the reward at time t, and $G _ { t }$ is the return from time t.

Here, the agent and the environment are defined as two distinct entities that can interact solely through actions. However, this setting does not capture the internal state of the agent, that can also be modeled as an MDP. For example, when modeling a battery-powered robot, if two different robots start in the same state of a deterministic environment and take the same actions but their algorithms consume different amounts of energy at each step, the state of the environment will be the same, yet it will not reflect the differing remaining charge in their batteries. Hansen et al. (1996) proposed control setting where sensing incurs a cost, thus allowing the agent to perform a sequence of actions to reduce the sensing cost. However, similar to the MDP, it does not capture the computation cost, as algorithms that maintain an accurate model of the environment can easily reduce their sensing cost by increasing the computation cost.
