[24] Jin-Won Kim, Prashant G Mehta, and Sean P Meyn.
What is the lagrangian for nonlinear filtering?
In 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 1607–1614.
IEEE, 2019.
[25] Huibert Kwakernaak and Raphael Sivan.
Linear Optimal Control Systems, volume 1072.
Wiley-interscience, 1969.
[26] Sahin Lale, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Babak Hassibi, and Anima Anandkumar.
Logarithmic regret bound in partially observable linear dynamical systems.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:20876–20888, 2020.
[27] Frank Lewis.
Optimal Estimation with an Introduction to Stochastic Control Theory.
New York, Wiley-Interscience, 1986.
[28] Wenjie Liu, Jian Sun, Gang Wang, Francesco Bullo, and Jie Chen.
Learning robust data-based LQG controllers from noisy data.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.01417, 2023.
[29] D Magill.
Optimal adaptive estimation of sampled stochastic processes.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 10(4):434–439, 1965.
[30] Peter Matisko and Vladimír Havlena.
Noise covariances estimation for Kalman filter tuning.
IFAC Proceedings Volumes, 43(10):31–36, 2010.
[31] Raman Mehra.
On the identification of variances and adaptive Kalman filtering.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 15(2):175–184, 1970.
[32] Raman Mehra.
Approaches to adaptive filtering.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 17(5):693–698, 1972.
[33] Hesameddin Mohammadi, Mahdi Soltanolkotabi, and Mihailo R.
Jovanovic.
On the linear convergence of random search for discrete-time LQR.
IEEE Control Systems Letters, 5(3):989– 994, 2021.
[34] Hesameddin Mohammadi, Armin Zare, Mahdi Soltanolkotabi, and Mihailo R Jovanovic.
Con- ´ vergence and sample complexity of gradient methods for the model-free linear–quadratic regulator problem.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 67(5):2435–2450, 2021.
[35] RE Mortensen.
Maximum-likelihood recursive nonlinear filtering.
Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, 2(6):386–394, 1968.
[36] Kenneth Myers and BD Tapley.
Adaptive sequential estimation with unknown noise statistics.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 21(4):520–523, 1976.
[37] Brian J Odelson, Alexander Lutz, and James B Rawlings.
The autocovariance least-squares method for estimating covariances: Application to model-based control of chemical reactors.
