The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Sections 2 and 3 define the standard MPC and the fixed horizon multi-stage MPC, respectively. Section 4 presents the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC showing how terminal ingredients are computed, and the horizon update algorithm for multi-stage MPC. The main results are in Section 5 where the recursive feasibility and stability properties of adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC are presented for both cases when the scenario tree is fully branched or has a robust horizon. Section 6 presents three numerical examples to show the performance of the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC controller. The first example demonstrates its control performance with recursive feasibility and robust stability guarantees, and the remaining examples compare the controller performance against the fixed horizon multi-stage MPC for different robust horizons. Finally, Section 7 outlines the main findings and future work avenues.

The uncertain process is represented in discrete-time form by the following difference equation:

$$x _ {k + 1} = f \left(x _ {k}, u _ {k}, d _ {k}\right) \tag {1}$$

where $x _ { k } \in \mathbb { X } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \lambda } }$ are the states, $u _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ are the control inputs, and $d _ { k } \in \mathbb { D } _ { c } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { d } }$ are the uncertain parameters (disturbances) at time step $t _ { k }$ where $k \geq 0$ is the time index. The set of real numbers is denoted by R, and the set of integers by $\mathbb { Z } ,$ with the subscript + referring to their non-negative subspaces. The Euclidean vector norm is denoted as $| \cdot |$ and the corresponding induced matrix norm as ∥ · ∥. The function $f \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } + n _ { u } + n _ { d } } \ \mapsto \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ is assumed to be twice differentiable in all its arguments, has Lipschitz continuous second derivatives, and is assumed to be transformed to obtain the nominal steady state model as $f ( 0 , 0 , d ^ { 0 } ) = 0 \mathrm { w h e r e } d ^ { 0 }$ is the nominal disturbance.
