In the realm of optimal control, significant progress has been made in the development of data-driven synthesis methods. Notably, recent advances have focused on the adoption of first-order methods for state-feedback LQR problems [6, 8]. The direct optimization of policies from a gradient-dominant perspective has first proven in [14] to be remarkably effective with global convergence despite non-convex optimization landscape. It has been demonstrated that despite the non-convex nature of the cost function, when expressed directly in terms of the policy, first-order methods exhibit global convergence to the optimal policy. Building upon this line of work, the use of first-order methods for policy optimization has been explored in variants of the LQR problem. These include Output-feedback Linear Quadratic Regulators (OLQR) [13], model-free setup [33], risk-constrained setup [54], Linear Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) [45], and most recently, Riemannian constrained LQR [43]. These investigations have expanded the scope of data-driven optimal control, demonstrating the versatility and applicability of first-order methods for a wide range of synthesis problems.

The objective of this paper is to provide fresh insights into the classical estimation problem by leveraging the duality between control and estimation and incorporating recent advances in datadriven optimal control. Specifically, building on the fundamental connection between the optimal mean-squared error estimation problem and the LQR problem (Prop. 1), we reformulate determining the optimal Kalman gain as a problem of synthesizing an optimal policy for the adjoint system, under conditions that differ from those explored in the existing literature (see (10) and Remark 3). Upon utilizing this relationship, we propose a Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) algorithm for learning the optimal Kalman gain, accompanied by novel non-asymptotic error guarantees in presence of biased gradient and stability constraint. Our approach opens up promising avenues for addressing the estimation problem with robust and efficient data-driven techniques. The following is an informal statement of our main results (combination of Thm. 1 and Thm. 2), and missing proofs appear in the supplementary materials.
