# 2.2 Stochastic optimization formulation

Define ${ \hat { x } } _ { L } ( T )$ to be the estimate given by the Kalman filter at time T realized by the constant gain $L .$ . Rolling out the update law (3a) for $t = 0$ to $t = T - 1$ , and replacing $L ( t )$ with $L ,$ leads to the following expression for the estimate ${ \hat { x } } _ { L } ( T )$ as a function of $L ,$ ,

$$\hat {x} _ {L} (T) = A _ {L} ^ {T} m _ {0} + \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} A _ {L} ^ {T - t - 1} L y (t), \tag {4}$$

where $A _ { L } : = A - L H$ . Note that evaluating this estimate does not require knowledge of $Q$ or $R$ However, it is not possible to directly aim to learn the gain L by minimizing the MSE (2) because the ground-truth measurement of the state $x ( T )$ is not available. Instead, we propose to minimize the MSE in predicting the observation $y ( T )$ as a surrogate objective function:1

$$\min _ {L} J _ {T} ^ {\text {est}} (L) := \mathbb {E} \left[ \| y (T) - \hat {y} _ {L} (T) \| ^ {2} \right] \tag {5}$$

where $\hat { y } _ { L } ( T ) : = H \hat { x } _ { L } ( T )$ . Note that while the objective function involves finite time horizon $T ,$ , our goal is to learn the steady-state Kalman gain $L _ { \infty }$ .

The justification for using the surrogate objective function in (5) instead of MSE error (2) lies in the detectability assumption 1. Detectability implies that all unobservable states are stable; in other words, their impact on the output signal vanishes quickly—depending on their stability time constant.

Numerically, the optimization problem (5) falls into the category of stochastic optimization and can be solved by algorithms such as Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD). Such an algorithm would need access to independent realizations of the observation signal which are available. Theoretically however, it is not yet clear if this optimization problem is well-posed and admits a unique minimizer. This is the subject of following section where certain properties of the objective function, such as its gradient dominance and smoothness, are established. These theoretical results are then used to analyze first-order optimization algorithms and provide stability guarantees of the estimation policy iterates. The results are based on the duality relationship between estimation and control that is presented next.
