We can perceive TLA as a novel control framework where three agents control the same body. This is different from traditional multi-agent approaches where each agent generally controls a different body or a different set of actuators. Often in multi-agent reinforcement learning, all the agents act at the same frequency and are often synced with the environmental time step. TLA offers an alternative approach where the agents act at different frequencies and thus are suited for different optimization goals for the same task. TLA uses time as a distinguishing factor to assign different goals and create a natural hierarchy between the agents. We plan to explore this multi-agent paradigm, especially in war games where agents act in different hierarchies and timescales.

The main limitation of TLA is that it can only plan a sequence of actions consisting of a single action. Therefore, the benefits of TLA are limited to multidimensional actions. In future work, we plan to implement a slow layer that can plan a sequence of actions instead of repeating the same action. In TLA, the fast layer acts as a reflex that only activates when needed, while the slow layer acts as a planning network in the brain. However, even within the brain, temporal attention is adaptable (Morillon, Schroeder, Wyart, & Arnal, 2016). Thus, we will also explore making the step size of the slow layer adaptable to allow for changes in the planning horizon, while the fast network will remain for unexpected situations. This will be tested for improvements in the Walker2d environment.

Finally, beyond what was shown here, TLA may be most suitable for use in energyconstrained environments, environments that require a distributed approach, and environments with high communication costs or delays, such as drones and robotic systems. TLA sets a benchmark for decision and energy-constrained environments and paves the way for future research in time and energy-aware artificial intelligence.
