guaranteed by the consideration of a suitable Lyapunov function. In [3], the authors derive a lower bound on the number of optimization iterations of a fast gradient method to achieve a certain suboptimality level of the MPC cost, however, the closed-loop stability is not analyzed. Time-distributed optimization [8], [9] or real-time iterative algorithms [10], [11] are examples of another approach that considers the combined system-optimizer dynamics. These methods perform only a finite number of iterations of an optimization problem at each timestep. The asymptotic stability of timedistributed MPC (TD-MPC) is studied in [8] for discretetime non-linear models with state and input constraints, and an explicit form for a Lyapunov function is derived in [11] for the same setting. Discrete-time linear models with a quadratic cost objective (LQMPC) are studied in [9] and a region of attraction (ROA) estimate is derived in [12].

In this work, we consider the transient performance of the suboptimal time-distributed optimization for LQMPC. In particular, our contribution is threefold. Firstly, we propose scheduling the number of iterative optimization steps, $\ell _ { k } ,$ , in advance, and allowing them to be time-varying based on the available computational budget. Building on [11], [12] we derive an explicit form for the rate of decay of the exponentially stable suboptimal dynamics under certain conditions on $\ell _ { k } { \boldsymbol { \cdot } } { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { s } } } .$ . Secondly, we study the transient performance of this scheme by quantifying its incurred suboptimality, which we define as the additional incurred closed-loop cost due to the approximate solution of the optimization problem. Finally, using our new analysis, we propose a diminishing horizon suboptimal MPC algorithm, called Dim-SuMPC, and quantify its finite-time performance. The proposed algorithm maintains the recursive feasibility and stability properties of TD-MPC while decreasing the prediction horizon length at certain switching times. This decrease reduces the problem size and, hence, the time complexity. We provide numerical examples to illustrate the performance of the proposed scheme in terms of both cost and computational time.
