# 1 Introduction

Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has demonstrated a remarkable capacity for learning control policies (Fujimoto, Hoof, & Meger, 2018; Haarnoja, Zhou, Abbeel, & Levine, 2018; Mnih et al., 2015). However, existing efforts solely focus on maximizing predefined environmental rewards at a constant decision-making frequency. This approach contrasts with biological control, where organisms adjust their behavior and energy expenditure based on environmental demands. This adaptive method allows for more efficient resource usage and can enhance performance in complex, fluctuating environments where defining reward functions can be challenging and optimizing only the reward function can lead to unexpected behavior.

Biological control is significantly more efficient, flexible, and effective compared to current artificial control methods despite severe time delays (More & Donelan, 2018), slow rates of information transmission, and slow response times (Jain, Bansal, Kumar, & Singh, 2015). These limitations can be ameliorated by integrating the capabilities of diverse components (Nakahira, Liu, Sejnowski, & Doyle, 2021), distributing control over many layers (Li, Sarma, Sejnowski, & Doyle, 2023), and by incorporating multiple adaptive response times into these layers, as explored in this study.

State-of-the-art reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms currently lack the ability to adapt their time step size (Fujimoto et al., 2018; Haarnoja et al., 2018; Schulman, Wolski, Dhariwal, Radford, & Klimov, 2017). Typically, a constant time step is selected to avoid the problem of continuous optimization of the timestep in every state. As a result, RL agents prefer extremely fast frequencies. However, different environments have different temporal contexts, each requiring a different time step size for an optimal performance-energy trade-off. Moreover, even within the same environment, the optimal time step can change. For example, when moving from a relatively safe and predictable state to an unpredictable state, the timestep should decrease. Ideally, as the state transitions become more predictable with training and repetition, less sensing should be required, and larger time steps become feasible. A fixed time step cannot effectively handle dynamically changing environments and is the cause of many failures in current algorithms.
