# Appendix A Discussion of additional related works

After the initial submission of this manuscript, we encountered the following related works, and we will now briefly discuss their connections and differences in relation to our work: [55] establishes an end-to-end sample complexity bound on learning a robust LQG controller (which is different than our filtering problem). As the system parameters are also unknown, this work only considers the open-loop stable systems. Additionally, it establishes a nice trade-off between optimality and robustness characterized by a suboptimality performance bound as a result of the robust LQG design. While our filtering design is based on the knowledge of system parameters, we do not consider the open-loop stability assumption; and the robust synthesis is included as one of the main future directions of this work. Furthermore, the complexity bounds in [55] depends on the√ length of trajectory, whereas ours does not. Also, their suboptimality bound scale as $O ( 1 / \sqrt { N } )$ in the number of trajectories, whereas ours scales as $O ( 1 / N )$ . Next, [53] similarly considers the problem of learning the steady-state Kalman gain but in a different setup: The model is assumed to be completely unknown. However, the algorithm requires access to a simulator that provides noisy measurement of the MSE $\mathbb { E } [ \| X ( t ) - \hat { X } ( t ) \| ^ { 2 } ]$ which requires generation of ground-truth state trajectories $X ( t )$ (see Assumption 3.2 therein). The proposed approaches are different: zeroth-order global optimization (theirs) vs first-order stochastic gradient descent (ours). The analysis reports $\stackrel { \smile } { \mathrm { a } } O ( \varepsilon ^ { - 2 } )$ sample complexity on optimal policy error which aligns with our result. However, it is difficult to provide more detailed comparison as explicit dependence of the error terms on problem dimension is not provided. Finally, [28] considers the problem of simultaneously learning the optimal Kalman filter and linear feedback control policy in the LQG setup. Their approach involves solving Semidefinite Programmings (SDP) using input-state-output trajectories. Their result, for the the case when trajectories involve noise, relies on the assumption that the magnitude of the noise can be made arbitrary small. This is in contrast to our setup where we only assume a bound on the noise level and do not require access to state trajectories.
