# 2.1 Learning problem

Now, we describe our learning setup: 1) The system matrices A and H are known, but the process and the measurement noise covariances, Q and R, are not available. 2) We have access to an oracle that generates independent realizations of the observation signal for given length $T \colon \{ y ( t ) \} _ { t = 0 } ^ { T }$ . However, ground-truth measurements of the state $x ( t )$ is not available.

Remark 1. Our proposed learning setup arises in various important engineering applications where merely approximate or reduced-order linear models are available due to difficulty in analytically capturing the effect of complex dynamics or disturbances, hence represented by noise with unknown covariance matrices. Additionally, the system identification procedure often occurs through the application of physical principles and collection of data from experiments in a controlled environment (e.g., in a wind tunnel). However, identifying the noise covariance matrices strongly depends on the operating environment which might be significantly different than the experimental setup. Therefore, it is common engineering practice to use the learned system matrices and tune the Kalman gain to improve the estimation error. We refer to [18] for the application of this procedure for gust load alleviation in wings and [37] for estimation in chemical reactor models. We also emphasize that this learning setup has a rich history in adaptive filtering with numerous references with a recent survey on this topic [52]. As part of our future research, we will carry-out a robustness analysis, similar to its LQR dual counterpart [10, 40], to study the effect of the error in system matrices on the learning performance.

Inspired by the structure of the Kalman filter, our goal is to learn the steady-state Kalman gain $L _ { \infty }$ from the data described in the learning setup:

Given: independent random realizations of $\{ y ( 0 ) , \dots , y ( T ) \}$ with the parameters $A , H$

Learn: steady-state Kalman gain $L _ { \infty }$

For that, we formulate the learning problem as a stochastic optimization described next.
