# References

[1] Bernt M Åkesson, John Bagterp Jørgensen, Niels Kjølstad Poulsen, and Sten Bay Jørgensen.
A generalized autocovariance least-squares method for Kalman filter tuning.
Journal of Process Control, 18(7-8):769–779, 2008.
[2] Karl J Åström.
Introduction to Stochastic Control Theory.
Courier Corporation, 2012.
[3] Amir Beck.
First-Order Methods in Optimization.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Philadelphia, PA, 2017.
[4] Pierre R Belanger.
Estimation of noise covariance matrices for a linear time-varying stochastic process.
Automatica, 10(3):267–275, 1974.
[5] Alain Bensoussan.
Estimation and control of dynamical systems, volume 48.
Springer, 2018.
[6] Jingjing Bu, Afshin Mesbahi, Maryam Fazel, and Mehran Mesbahi.
LQR through the lens of first order methods: Discrete-time case.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.08921, 2019.
[7] Jingjing Bu, Afshin Mesbahi, and Mehran Mesbahi.
On topological and metrical properties of stabilizing feedback gains: The MIMO case.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.02737, 2019.
[8] Jingjing Bu, Afshin Mesbahi, and Mehran Mesbahi.
Policy gradient-based algorithms for continuous-time linear quadratic control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.09178, 2020.
[9] Burian Carew and P Belanger.
Identification of optimum filter steady-state gain for systems with unknown noise covariances.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 18(6):582–587, 1973.
[10] Ci Chen and Anthony Holohan.
Stability robustness of linear quadratic regulators.
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 26(9):1817–1824, 2016.
[11] Alon Cohen, Avinatan Hasidim, Tomer Koren, Nevena Lazic, Yishay Mansour, and Kunal Talwar.
Online linear quadratic control.
In Jennifer Dy and Andreas Krause, editors, Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 1029–1038.
PMLR, 10–15 Jul 2018.
[12] Jindrich Dunik, Miroslav Simandl, and Ondrej Straka.
Methods for estimating state and measurement noise covariance matrices: Aspects and comparison.
IFAC Proceedings Volumes, 42(10):372–377, 2009.
[13] Ilyas Fatkhullin and Boris Polyak.
Optimizing static linear feedback: Gradient method.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 59(5):3887–3911, 2021.
[14] Maryam Fazel, Rong Ge, Sham Kakade, and Mehran Mesbahi.
