A. There exists a common terminal region $\mathbb { X } _ { f } = \bigcap _ { r \in \mathbb { Q } } \mathbb { X } _ { f } ^ { r }$ r∈Q , that is robust control invariant.   
B. $\mathbb { X } _ { f } \subseteq \mathbb { X }$ is compact and contains the origin in its interior.   
C. The terminal cost is bounded as follows: $\alpha _ { p , \psi } ( | x | ) \le \psi ( x , d ^ { r } ) \le \alpha _ { q , \psi } ( | x | ) + \sigma _ { q , \psi } ( | d ^ { r } - d ^ { 0 } | )$ where $\alpha _ { p , \psi } , \alpha _ { q , \psi } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ , and $\sigma _ { q , \psi } \in \mathcal K$ .   
σ ,ψD. The terminal cost is a local control Lyapunov function $\psi ( f ( x , \kappa _ { f } ( x ) , d ^ { r } ) , d ^ { r } ) - \psi ( x , d ^ { r } ) \leq - \ell ( x , \kappa _ { f } ( x ) , d ^ { r } )$ for all $\boldsymbol { x } \in \mathbb { X } _ { f }$ .

Assumption 6A is needed because a common terminal region must exist for a possible reduction of the prediction horizon. The selection of a prediction horizon where all scenarios reach their respective terminal regions in Step 11 of Algorithm 1 implies that the common terminal region is reached. This region may be a null set when |∆d| is sufficiently large. Further, this can be determined beforehand when computing the terminal ingredients.

5.1. Recursive feasibility of the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC with a fully branched scenario tree

Before stability analysis, recursive feasibility must be guaranteed by ensuring robust constraint satisfaction. Given the assumptions above, we first present the following result for a fully branched scenario tree i.e. $N _ { R } = N _ { k } .$ :

Theorem 4. (Recursive feasibility of the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC). Suppose Assumption 4, 5 and 6 hold, then problem (11) from a fully branched scenario tree $N _ { R } = N _ { k }$ is recursively feasible.

Proof. Let Assumption 4 and 6 hold and consider the fully branched multi-stage MPC with $N _ { R } = N _ { k }$ . Proposition 4 in [25] and Theorem 6 in [26] show that if a robust control invariant terminal region exists then the fully branched multi-stage MPC with a fixed horizon $N _ { R } = N _ { k }$ is recursively feasible. Since the adaptive horizon, multi-stage MPC with $N _ { R } = N _ { k }$ ensures that the horizon is updated such that the common terminal region is always reached, it is also recursively feasible for any horizon update $N _ { k + 1 }$ given by Algorithm 1. □
