# 4.5. Horizon update algorithm

The algorithm begins by selecting a long horizon $N _ { \mathrm { m a x } } .$ , a safety factor $N _ { \mathrm { m i n } } > N _ { R }$ , and computing the terminal >ingredients offline. In each MPC iteration, the algorithm determines a horizon update such that all scenarios reach their terminal regions irrespective of the initial state in the subsequent MPC iteration. Fig. 2 is a simple illustration of how a new horizon length is determined for three scenarios. The one-step-ahead prediction of the solution to (11) from a sensitivity update is in solid lines and the terminal regions for each scenario are below the dashed lines. Each scenario reaches its respective terminal region at stage $N _ { T } ^ { c }$ . To ensure that each scenario reaches its terminal region at $t _ { k + 1 }$ , the new prediction horizon must be at least equal to the largest $N _ { T } ^ { c }$ . Therefore in Fig. $2 N _ { k + 1 }$ must be greater than $N _ { T } ^ { 3 } .$ .

Algorithm 1 Horizon update for multi-stage MPC   
1: Define $N_{max}$ , $N_{min} > N_{R}$ 2: Determine $X_{f}^{r}$ , $P_{r}$ for all $d^{r} \in D$ 3: Initialize: $k \leftarrow 0$ , $N_{0} \leftarrow N_{max}$ 4: $w^{\star}(x_{k}) \leftarrow \text{Solve (11)}$ with $N_{k}$ and initial state $x_{k}$ 5: $X_{k+1} \leftarrow \{x_{k+1}^{r} \mid x_{k+1}^{r} = f(x_{k}, u_{k}, d^{r}) \forall d^{r} \in D\}$ 6: $\nabla_{x_{k}} w^{\star} \leftarrow \text{Evaluate (14)}$ to obtain NLP sensitivities at $x_{k}$ 7: $W_{k+1}^{\star} \leftarrow \{\text{get } w^{\star}(x_{k+1}^{r}) \text{ using (15)} \forall x_{k+1}^{r} \in X_{k+1}\}$ 8: for all $w^{\star}(x_{k+1}^{r}) \in W_{k+1}^{\star}$ do
9: if $z_{N_{k|k+1}}^{c} \in X_{f}^{r} \forall c \in C$ then
10: $N_{T}^{c} \leftarrow \text{step at which } X_{f}^{r} \text{ is reached}$ 11: $N_{T}(x_{k+1}^{r}) \leftarrow \max_{c \in C} N_{T}^{c}$ 12: else
13: $N_{T}(x_{k+1}^{r}) \leftarrow N_{max}$ 14: end if
15: end for
16: $N_{T} \leftarrow \max_{x_{k+1}^{r} \in X_{k+1}} N_{T}(x_{k+1}^{r})$ 17: $N_{k+1} \leftarrow \min(N_{\max}, N_{T} + N_{\min})$ 18: $k \leftarrow k + 1$ 19: Go to Step 4

Algorithm 1 presents the horizon update algorithm for multi-stage MPC. The flowchart in Fig. 3 summarizes Algorithm 1 which is a mapping of the current state and prediction horizon to the subsequent prediction horizon. The mapping is defined as a function in Definition 6 as follows:

Definition 6. (Horizon update function) Let N be the universal set of admissible horizon lengths such that $N =$ $\{ N | N _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } \le N \le N _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } , N \in \mathbb { Z } _ { + } \}$ . Further, there exists a subset of horizon lengths $N _ { k } \subset N$ that define the feasible problems (11) at time $t _ { k }$ . We define a function $H \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } } \times N \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } } \mapsto N$ that determines the horizon lengths for the adaptive horizon multi-stage algorithm such that $N _ { k + 1 } = H ( x _ { k } , N _ { k } , z _ { k + 1 | k } ^ { c } ) \in N _ { k + 1 }$ .
