# 6.4.2. Simulation results

A sample time of 18 s is used, and the process is simulated for 0 6 h. At the beginning $c _ { B } ^ { \mathrm { s e t } } \ = \ 0 . 5 \mathrm { m o l } / \ell$ and it changes to $c _ { B } ^ { \mathrm { s e t } } \ = \ 0 . 7 \mathrm { m o l } / \ell$ at $t _ { k } ~ = ~ 0 . 3 \mathrm { h }$ .. The uncertain parameter $E _ { 3 }$ B . /ℓis a random sequence of the sampled . /ℓ .realizations. The control performance of the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC is compared with the fixed horizon multi-stage MPC in this system. The value of $N _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } = 5$ in the adaptive horizon multi-stage algorithm. Figs. 7 and 8 show closed-loop simulation results when $N _ { R } = 1$ 2, respectively. The optimal input sequences and state trajectories ,for both controllers are nearly identical. The two controllers show similar performance in tracking changes in setpoint $c _ { B } ^ { \mathrm { s e t } }$ . This implies that the adaptive horizon algorithm does not affect the tracking performance of the multi-stage MPC.

The prediction horizon and total computation times per iteration for the two controllers when $N _ { R } = 1$ 2 are plotted ,in Figs. 9 and 10, respectively. The adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC reduces the prediction horizon significantly, thus saving the computation time needed in each multi-stage MPC iteration. There is an 86% savings in CPU time on average from fixed horizon multi-stage MPC with $N _ { R } = 1$ by using the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC. When $N _ { R } = 2$ , there is also a 92% savings in CPU time on average. The regulatory performances of the two controllers are nearly identical but the prediction horizon and computation time are reduced significantly for the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC.
