Global convergence of policy gradient methods for the linear quadratic regulator.
In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80, pages 1467–1476.
PMLR, 2018.
[15] Wendell H Fleming and Sanjoy K Mitter.
Optimal control and nonlinear filtering for nondegenerate diffusion processes.
Stochastics: An International Journal of Probability and Stochastic Processes, 8(1):63–77, 1982.
[16] Nicholas J Higham.
Functions of Matrices: Theory and Computation.
SIAM, 2008.
[17] Charles G Hilborn and Demetrios G Lainiotis.
Optimal estimation in the presence of unknown parameters.
IEEE Transactions on Systems Science and Cybernetics, 5(1):38–43, 1969.
[18] Kimberly A Hinson, Kristi A Morgansen, and Eli Livne.
Autocovariance least squares noise covariance estimation for a gust load alleviation test-bed.
In AIAA SCITECH 2022 Forum, page 0617, 2022.
[19] Roger A Horn and Charles R Johnson.
Matrix Analysis.
Cambridge University Press, 2012.
[20] R.
E.
Kalman.
A new approach to linear filtering and prediction problems.
ASME.
Journal of Basic Engineering, 82(1):35–45, 03 1960.
[21] Rudolf E Kalman.
On the general theory of control systems.
In Proceedings First International Conference on Automatic Control, Moscow, USSR, pages 481–492, 1960.
[22] R Kashyap.
Maximum likelihood identification of stochastic linear systems.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 15(1):25–34, 1970.
[23] Jin Won Kim.
Duality for nonlinear filtering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.07709, 2022.
