This assumption implies that the approximation error from using the stabilizing linear control law inside the terminal region must be negligible. Assumption 8 can be satisfied by finding a suitably large $N _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ that is determined through simulations as explained in [9].

Theorem 6. (ISpS stability of adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC) Suppose Assumption 5 and 6 hold for (11), the optimal value function Vahm is an ISpS Lyapunov function and the resulting closed-loop system is ISpS stable.

Proof. To show the ISpS property of the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC, a Lyapunov function must exist that satisfies the three conditions in (17).

Lower bound: Suppose Assumption 5 holds then there exists a lower bound (17a) on the optimal value function.

$$V _ {N} ^ {\mathrm{ahm}} \left(x _ {k}, \mathbf {d} ^ {c}\right) \geq \ell \left(x _ {k}, \kappa_ {N} \left(x _ {k}\right), d _ {0} ^ {0}\right) \geq \alpha_ {p} \left(\left| x _ {k} \right|\right) \quad \forall x _ {k} \in \mathbb {X} \tag {22}$$

Upper bound: The existence of an upper bound (17b) is shown by using Assumption 4A, the boundedness property of the optimal cost of standard MPC recursively forward [1], and Assumption 6C as follows:

$$V _ {N} ^ {\mathrm{ahm}} \left(x _ {k}, \mathbf {d} ^ {c}\right) \leq V _ {N} ^ {\mathrm{ahm}} \left(x _ {k}, \mathbf {d} ^ {0}\right) + L _ {v} | \Delta \mathbf {d} | \tag {23a}\leq \psi (x _ {k}, d ^ {0}) + L _ {v} | \Delta \mathbf {d} | \tag {23b}\leq \alpha_ {q, \psi} (| x _ {k} |) + c _ {1} \tag {23c}$$

for all $\boldsymbol { x } _ { k } \in \mathbb { X } _ { f } ,$ where $c _ { 1 } = L _ { \nu } | \Delta \mathbf { d } |$ is a constant. It also applies to all $x _ { k } \in \mathbb { X }$ by induction because $\mathbb { X } _ { f } \subseteq \mathbb { X }$ , and $V _ { N } ^ { \mathrm { a h m } } ( x _ { k } , { \bf d } ^ { 0 } )$ is continuous at the origin.

,Note that the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC control law may be discontinuous because it optimizes with different prediction horizons provided by Algorithm 1 at each time step. However, our analysis considers the properties of the optimal cost function $V _ { N _ { k } } ^ { a h m }$ which may still be continuous even with a discontinuous control law, given that the input constraint set is continuous. [1]

Function descent: The descent property (17c), which is the main part of stability analysis, is shown for two possible cases of horizon update:
