Our new architecture, the TLA, achieves temporal awareness by allowing the agent to choose between two different policies that make up its two layers. The slow layer allows TLA to plan a sequence of actions without intermediate sampling from the environment. Thus, the slow layer operates at a higher latency using a partially open-loop control where the next action in the sequence of actions does not depend on the next state sampled of the environment. On the other hand, the fast action acts similarly to the traditional reinforcement agent and is reflexive (reactive) in nature. It is a closed-loop system where each action depends on the state resulting from the previous action. A third network helps in achieving the switch between these two, and together, the layered system mimics the biological control achieved by the spinal cord and the brain (Weiler, Gribble, & Pruszynski, 2019). Similar parallel pathways are also present inside the brain that allows it to change between planning and reflex depending on the situation (Nakahira et al., 2021). A look at the architecture of the brain demonstrates that it is designed in this layered manner. The brain has connections to the superior colliculus from almost every other area (Harting, Updyke, & van Lieshout, 1992). The superior colliculus is a site of sensorimotor integration responsible for motor control. This might allow the brain to spend variable amounts of compute resources and change its latency while picking actions. We note that this idea is also related to the idea of early exits in deep neural networks (Patel & Siegelmann, 2022; Scardapane, Scarpiniti, Baccarelli, & Uncini, 2020), however, our approach proves that it is better suited for control where the difference in compute and latency has a significant impact. Furthermore, recent work has also shown evidence for parallel multi-timescale learning, similar to TLA, in the brain that might explain the discrepancies in the dopamine activations of the brain and the TD-error after learning (Masset et al., 2023).
