To aid training, experiences are added to the replay memory of both the slow and the fast networks whenever either network is activated. This is straightforward for the fast network, as it has $\tau$ experiences with the same action created whenever a slow action is chosen. However, the slow network can only observe its own actions. When the fast network is activated, we augment the slow reward with a consistency penalty that captures the difference between the slow and the fast actions, facilitating the sharing of information between them. Additionally, the rewards of the slow and switch networks are augmented by the energy penalty to incentivize slow actions. Hence, the final rewards for each network are as follows:

$$R _ {t} ^ {f} = R _ {t} - g _ {t} \cdot \left(\left| a _ {t} ^ {s} - a _ {t} ^ {f} \right| / a _ {\max}\right) \cdot j \tag {6}R _ {t} ^ {s} = R _ {t} - p \cdot g _ {t} - g _ {t} \cdot \left(\left| a _ {t} ^ {s} - a _ {t} ^ {f} \right| / a _ {\max}\right) \cdot j \tag {7}$$

Where j is the consistency penalty parameter and $p$ is the energy penalty parameter that incentivizes slow actions. Thus, even though the action $a ^ { s }$ is not performed, it can affect the reward, aiding the training of the slow network. $R _ { t } ^ { q }$ is the reward provided to the fast network at each step while the slow and the switch network receive the sum of rewards for τ steps: $\scriptstyle \sum _ { k = t - \tau } ^ { t } R _ { k } ^ { l }$ . This formulation allows the use of a single hyperparameter $j = p$ for simpler environments with consistency and energy penalties. For multi-dimensional environments that already have an action magnitude penalty, j is set to zero, and only $p$ needs to be searched. Additionally, for multi-dimensional environments, since $j$ is set to 0 when the fast network is activated, the slow action has no influence on the reward received or the next state. This increases the relative nonstationarity of the slow-network. To avoid this, we set the slow action to zero every time the fast action is picked for the environments with multiple action dimensions. Thus, all non-stationary memories in the replay memory of the slow network have zero action while all non-zero action memories will be stationary.

The slow and fast networks are trained using the TD3 algorithm, while the switch policy is trained using Deep Q-learning (Mnih et al., 2015). For completeness, the pseudo-code and an alternate architecture diagram with reward penalties is presented in the appendix.
