# I. INTRODUCTION

Model Predictive Control (MPC) is one of the most ubiquitous optimal control methods thanks to its capability of handling state and input constraints and providing closedloop performance guarantees [1]. The MPC algorithm relies on solving a constrained optimization problem at each sample time and hence requires a fast enough computational unit to handle it. In many practical examples, a short sampling time, combined with a large-scale optimization problem, can make the method infeasible to operate. This limitation has motivated the development of suboptimal MPC schemes for applications with limited computational capacity, e.g. [2], [3]. With suboptimal methods, at each time step, the optimization problem is solved approximately but continues to conform to certain performance requirements. While many works study the closed-loop stability of such methods, the characterization of transient performance in terms of the incurred cost has not been completely addressed. Such an analysis can be beneficial not only for certifying suboptimality bounds given a limited computational budget but also, as we show here, for designing time-varying MPC schemes, that allocate computational budget adaptively.

The closed-loop stability of suboptimal MPC is well studied, e.g. in [2], [4]–[7]. Asymptotic stability is usually

This work has been supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation under NCCR Automation (grant agreement 51NF40 180545).

A. Karapetyan and J. Lygeros are with the Automatic Control Laboratory, ETH Z ¨urich, 8092 Z ¨urich, Switzerland (E-mails: {akarapetyan, lygeros}@control.ee.ethz.ch).

E. C. Balta is with Inspire AG, 8005 Z ¨urich, Switzerland (E-mail: efe.balta@inspire.ch).

A. Iannelli is with the Institute for Systems Theory and Automatic Control, University of Stuttgart, Stuttgart 70569, Germany (E-mail: andrea.iannelli@ist.uni-stuttgart.de).
