The RL framework models the environment as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). For continuous environments, an agent acting at a fixed frequency must operate at least as fast as the situation that requires the fastest response. Such fast response speed means that the agent divides an episode into more states, resulting in a longer task horizon. This can decrease action-value propagation and, in turn, slow convergence to optimal performance (McGovern, Sutton, & Fagg, 1997). Similarly, the temporal density of the reward (reward/state transitions per unit time) decreases as the agent becomes faster since the total state transitions increase, leading to an increase in the difficulty of the RL problem. This is especially true for environments with sparse rewards, where a faster agent would have to explore more zero-reward (uninteresting) state transitions before finally reaching the goal or failure state that provides a non-zero reward. The mountain-car problem is one such example of this scenario (Moore, 1990).

A faster response time also means that the agent processes more inputs per unit time and needs faster actuation, both of which require more energy. In energy-constrained agents like robots, the agent’s response speed can have a significant impact on total energy consumption. It is worth noting that DRL algorithms rely on experience replay memory during learning (Mnih et al., 2015), and that a faster response time would result in the creation of more memories per unit time. Consequently, a small memory size would also bottleneck the performance of fast-acting RL.

We primarily focus here on the effect of step size on energy conservation and performance. To investigate this formally, we introduce the Decision Bounded-MDP (DB-MDP), an extension of the MDP that constrains the number of decisions the agent can make in each episode. This constraint motivates the agent to conserve its decisionmaking energy expenditure. Fixed time-step RL will yield suboptimal solutions or even fail completely on DB-MDP.
