(c) Decision-Bounded MDP   
Figure 2: (a): A simple MDP with $S = 5$ states. Each state has two actions, one that leads to the next state and one that results in the same state change. (b): Time-limited MDP: In the time-limited MDP setting, there is an additional limit on the amount of time available (T ). The MDP thus is expanded to $S \times T$ states. Right: Decision-Bounded MDP: In Decision-Bounded MDP, the number of decisions are limited. However, a single decision can result in multiple planned actions. Similar to time-limited MDP, there $S \times D$ states where D is the number of available decisions. However, a larger part of the MDP is reachable if the agent is able to take multiple actions per decisions, resulting in cognitive cost reduction.

Thus, to capture this complexity, we introduce Decision-Bounded MDP (DB-MDP) that puts a bound on the number of decisions that can be taken by the agent in each episode. Decisions are defined as a sequence of n actions where $n \in \mathbb N$ . We note that in time-limited tasks, simple agents that make one decision at each step $( n \ =$ 1) can be modeled as time-dependent MDPs (Pardo, Tavakoli, Levdik, & Kormushev, 2018). Time-dependent MDPs can be thought of as a stack of $T$ time-independent MDPs followed by a terminal state. Therefore, at each time step, the actions result in transitioning to the next state in the MDP in the next stack. However, the reachable states in the next stack are the same as the states reachable from the current state in the original MDP.

However, when agents can plan a sequence of actions or repeat the same action $( n \geq 1 )$ , it is possible to transition to states that are not adjacent in the original MDP thus preserving the number of remaining decisions (Figure 2). Thus, we can see that DB-MDPs are an extension of time-limited MDPs that dissociate the decisions from time.
