Several methods have been proposed in MPC literature to enhance computational efficiency. One approach is the adaptive horizon MPC which aims at providing an online horizon update for subsequent MPC iterations. This framework shortens the prediction horizon as the controlled system approaches a stabilizing region. The problem size is reduced, leading to shorter solution times while preserving the MPC stability properties. Krener [7, 8] proposed using the properties of the Lyapunov function to detect stabilization before shortening the horizon. This method requires the determination of a good Lyapunov function, which can be difficult for nonlinear systems. Griffith et al. [9] employs linearization around the operating point to establish a stabilizing region where the horizon can be truncated. Despite their successful implementation in standard (nominal) MPC, the adaptive horizon techniques have not yet been employed in multi-stage MPC. Multi-stage MPC has significantly larger solution times than standard MPC because of the explicit consideration of multiple scenarios in its optimization problem. Hence, the adaptive horizon strategy is even more beneficial for multi-stage MPC, particularly for nonlinear systems.

In this paper, we extend the adaptive horizon scheme proposed in [9] for multi-stage MPC. This approach requires performing one-step-ahead predictions, terminal region calculations, and selection of the sufficient (stabilizing) prediction horizon length. Although this was studied for the standard MPC in [9], the extension of these ideas to multi-stage MPC where we have multiple scenarios is not trivial, because (i) the determination of terminal ingredients depends on the nature of the scenario tree, and (ii) the horizon update using parametric sensitivity needs to ensure that the one-step-ahead approximate solution for each scenario reaches their stabilizing terminal regions. A proof of concept was very briefly presented in our earlier work [10]. This paper extends our previous work by describing the approach in full detail, providing a robust stability analysis of the resulting controller based on Input-to-State practical Stability (ISpS), and demonstrating the performance on a more complex case study.
