[46] Joel A. Tropp. An introduction to matrix concentration inequalities. Foundations and Trends® in Machine Learning, 8(1-2):1–230, 2015.   
[47] Anastasios Tsiamis and George J Pappas. Finite sample analysis of stochastic system identification. In 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 3648–3654. IEEE, 2019.   
[48] Anastasios Tsiamis and George J. Pappas. Online learning of the Kalman filter with logarithmic regret. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 68(5):2774–2789, 2023.   
[49] Anastasios Tsiamis, Ingvar Ziemann, Nikolai Matni, and George J Pappas. Statistical learning theory for control: A finite sample perspective. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.05423, 2022.   
[50] Jack Umenberger, Max Simchowitz, Juan Perdomo, Kaiqing Zhang, and Russ Tedrake. Globally convergent policy search for output estimation. In S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal, D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 35, pages 22778–22790. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022.   
[51] Jie Xiong. An Introduction to Stochastic Filtering Theory, volume 18. OUP Oxford, 2008.   
[52] Lingyi Zhang, David Sidoti, Adam Bienkowski, Krishna R Pattipati, Yaakov Bar-Shalom, and David L Kleinman. On the identification of noise covariances and adaptive Kalman filtering: A new look at a 50 year-old problem. IEEE Access, 8:59362–59388, 2020.   
[53] Xiangyuan Zhang, Bin Hu, and Tamer Ba¸sar. Learning the Kalman filter with fine-grained sample complexity. In 2023 American Control Conference (ACC), pages 4549–4554, 2023.   
[54] Feiran Zhao, Keyou You, and Tamer Ba¸sar. Global convergence of policy gradient primal-dual methods for risk-constrained LQRs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.04901, 2021.   
[55] Yang Zheng, Luca Furieri, Maryam Kamgarpour, and Na Li. Sample complexity of linear quadratic gaussian (LQG) control for output feedback systems. In Ali Jadbabaie, John Lygeros, George J. Pappas, Pablo A.;Parrilo, Benjamin Recht, Claire J. Tomlin, and Melanie N. Zeilinger, editors, Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Learning for Dynamics and Control, volume 144 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 559–570. PMLR, 07 – 08 June 2021.
