# 2.2 Action repetition and frame skipping

Reinforcement learning with a sequence of actions is challenging since the number of possible action sequences of length l is exponential in l. As a result, research in this area focuses on pruning the possible number of actions and states (Hansen, Barto, & Zilberstein, 1996; McCallum & Ballard, 1996; Tan, 1991). To avoid the exponential number of action sequences, some works have restricted the action sequences to repeating a single action. The number of actions is therefore, linear in the number of time steps (Biedenkapp, Rajan, Hutter, & Lindauer, 2021; Buckland & Lawrence, 1993; Kalyanakrishnan et al., 2021; Sharma, Srinivas, & Ravindran, 2017; Srinivas, Sharma, & Ravindran, 2017). Frame-skipping and action repetition have been used as a form of partial open-loop control, where the agent selects an action to be repeatedly executed without considering the intermediate states. TempoRL, introduced by Biedenkapp et al. (2021), learns an additional action-repetition policy that decides on the number of time steps to repeat a chosen action. This approach can lead to faster learning and reduce the number of action decision points during an episode. We use their approach as one of our benchmarks.

In their analysis of macro-actions, McGovern et al. (1997) identified two advantages: improved exploration and faster learning due to a reduced task horizon. Empirical evidence from Randløv (1998) shows that macro-actions also significantly reduce training time. Additionally, Braylan, Hollenbeck, Meyerson, and Miikkulainen (2015) showed that increasing the number of frames skipped can significantly improve the performance of the DQN algorithm (Mnih et al., 2015) on some Atari games.

However, these approaches require a predictable environment so that an action can be repeated safely without supervision. Furthermore, these approaches often require additional hyperparameter search to find the best frame-skip parameter. In contrast, our approach can easily adapt its time step size to changing conditions and the current predictability of the environment. In addition, it is less sensitive to the frame-skip parameter as it can switch between networks of different time steps.
