# 1. Introduction

This paper investigates a way to reduce the computational cost of model predictive control (MPC). MPC has become increasingly popular in process systems engineering due to its inherent capacity to handle complex constrained multivariate systems [1]. There has been a broader interest in nonlinear MPC (NMPC) because of the significant nonlinear dynamics in process systems. However, this requires solving a nonlinear program (NLP) which due to its numerical complexity may result in a large computation cost [2]. The computation cost is further increased when uncertainty is explicitly considered, in robust MPC approaches, such as in multi-stage MPC formulations.

Multi-stage MPC samples from an uncertain parameter set to obtain a finite set of discrete realizations and then propagate the uncertainty into the future as a growing scenario tree [3, 4]. The size of the optimization problem increases exponentially as the prediction horizon expands, eventually becoming computationally intractable. As a result, a significant computational delay occurs, affecting control performance. This poses a major challenge in implementing multi-stage MPC. de la Pena et al. [5] and Lucia et al. [6] suggest using a robust horizon to decrease the number of variables, but an additional reduction may be required when there is a substantial number of parameter realizations. Reducing the problem size minimizes computational delay and therefore improves the multi-stage MPC controller performance.
