# 4.3 Temporally Layered Architecture (TLA)

We draw inspiration from the brain and biological reflexes, which use multiple layers of computation with different latencies to enable temporal adaptivity. TLA has two layers, slow and fast, that learn two policies, each with a different step-size, $\pi ^ { s }$ and $\pi ^ { f }$ , where s and f denote the slow and fast layers, respectively. The fast layer is similar to traditional RL agents and can observe and act at every time step, whereas the slow layer can only observe and act every $\tau$ time steps, where $\tau \geq 2$ and $\tau \in \mathbb { Z }$ . Therefore for any t mod $\tau$ that is equal to $0 ,$ , the next action is sampled from the slow policy (Equation (2)), and the previous action is repeated otherwise.

To switch between these two policies, we introduce a switch policy that decides whether to activate the fast network based on the state and the slow action. Therefore, at each time step:

$$
a _ {t} ^ {s} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} a _ {t - 1} ^ {s} & \text { if   } t \bmod \tau \neq 0 \\ \sim \pi^ {s} (\cdot | s _ {t}) & \text { otherwise } \end{array} \right. \tag {2}

g _ {t} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} g _ {t - 1} & \text { if   } t \bmod \tau \neq 0 \\ \sim \mu^ {g} (\cdot | s _ {t}, a _ {t} ^ {s}) & \text { otherwise } \end{array} \right. \tag {3}
a _ {t} ^ {f} \sim \pi^ {f} (\cdot | s _ {t}) \tag {4}a _ {t} = a _ {t} ^ {s} \cdot (1 - g _ {t}) + a _ {t} ^ {f} \cdot g _ {t} \tag {5}$$

Where $s _ { t }$ is the state at time $t , a ^ { s }$ is the slow action, $a ^ { f }$ is the fast action, and $g \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ is the switch action. $\pi ^ { s } , \pi ^ { f } , \mu ^ { g }$ are the slow, fast, and switch policies respectively. Thus, the fast network is only activated when $g = 1$ .

Thus, during an episode, the agent might utilize both layers depending on the context. The value of any given state is dependent on both the fast and slow policies, making it is difficult to simultaneously optimize both layers. Each layer is unaware of the other layer’s policy and thus needs to navigate in a non-stationary environment.
