We demonstrate that environments can have multiple solutions (optimal policies), and they are difficult to distinguish solely based on performance (average Reward). Table 5 summarizes the evaluation of all the algorithms on all the metrics tested. We note that TD3-EA is not incuded in this table since it is not a different algorithm, rather just TD3 with the timestep changed and it reaches acceptable performance on only 2 out of the 8 environments. For each RL algorithm, since the first task is to find the optimal policy, we first measure the average reward. To reduce the effect of randomness, we accept all values that are within one standard deviation of the best reward. Additionally, for the Inverted Double Pendulum environment, we accept all solutions since it is designed to have a very high reward while the optimized policies display a very low standard deviation (detailed results in the Appendix).

Finally, for every environment where the algorithm reaches a competitive solution as described above, we further test it on six different metrics: AUC, action repetition, jerk, decisions, MACs. We find that TLA reaches a competitive performance in 7 out of the 8 environments (all except Walker2d). Furthermore, it also demonstrates that the policies learned by TLA are well-rounded and demonstrate superior performance when measured on other metrics. Importantly, it demonstrates higher action repetition and fewer decisions on all 7 environments. Additionally, it demonstrates lower jerk in all but 1 environment and lower compute cost in all environment except the Ant and Half Cheetah, where it suffers from repetition syncing.

We provide more detailed results on each metric in the Appendix.
