We use Q-learning and tabular policies for evaluation and compare three different algorithms. Q-learning is a standard policy that takes one decision per time-step. Extended-action Q-learning repeats each action four times, thus reducing the number of decisions per unit of time by a factor of four. Finally, TLA can switch between taking one decision per time step and repeating an action four times. All values in the tabular policies are initialized to 0. Since in the tabular policy, the consistency penalty cannot be implemented, j is set to 0 while p is set to 1 (Eq. 6 and 7).

We tested each policy on each environment over 20 independent trials. Fig. 4 shows the average reward and average number of decisions vs. training episodes. When optimizing the dual goals of reward (performance) and decisions, priority is given to the reward to maintain competitive performance compared to decision-agnostic algorithms.

In the Straight environment, TLA quickly explores and reaches the goal and then optimizes the number of decisions. Curiously, it converges in performance faster than the extended action Q-learning even though the environment is ideal for action repetition. On the other hand, it is slow to converge towards the optimal decisions as it prioritizes performance over efficiency. Finally, Q-learning fails to solve the environment as there are fewer decisions allowed than the distance to the goal (Fig. 4).

In the Slalom environment, the optimal path length is equal to the decision bound, thus it is possible for Q-learning to solve the environment. However, the decision bound makes exploration for Q-learning difficult. Extended-action Q-learning cannot reach optimal reward as it cannot navigate the sharp turns effectively. TLA is the only algorithm that reaches optimal reward. We see that TLA needs to take more decisions than extended action Q-learning. This is because it prioritizes reward over decisions. However, this behavior can be modulated by changing the energy penalty p.

Similarly, in the Combined environment, optimal performance requires fast actions for the sharp turns and extended action elsewhere. In conclusion, TLA successfully switches between the two to achieve the perfect trade-off between performance and decisions so that it finds the optimal performance with the fewest possible decisions when acting at two timescales.
