$$\left| \Delta \mathbf {d} \right| := \max _ {d ^ {r}, d ^ {r ^ {\prime}} \in \mathbb {D}} \left| d ^ {r} - d ^ {r ^ {\prime}} \right| \tag {19}$$

that is the maximum difference in the disturbance vector between any two parameter realizations. Since the evolution of (1) in closed-loop depends on the true disturbance $d _ { k } .$ , then $x _ { k + 1 } = f ( x _ { k } , \kappa ( x _ { k } ) , d _ { k } )$ , and $x _ { k + 1 } \leq f ( x _ { k } , \kappa ( x _ { k } ) , d _ { k } ^ { 0 } ) +$ $O ( | \Delta \mathbf { d } | )$ , κ , , κ , . This result facilitates the recursive feasibility and ISpS stability analysis for the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC that follows. But first, let us define the following basic assumptions:

Assumption 4. (Basic assumptions for adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC) The adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC has the following properties:

A. Lipschitz continuity: The functions $f , \ell ,$ and  are Lipschitz continuous with respect to x, u and d in the compact set $\mathbb { X } \times \mathbb { U }$ × convhull(D).   
B. Constraint set: The constraint sets X and U are compact, and contain the origin in their interiors.   
C. The solution to (11) satisfies LICQ and SSOSC such that Theorem 3 applies.

With these properties in Assumption 4, the Lipschitz continuity holds w.r.t. $x _ { k }$ and dc for the optimal solution and the optimal cost $V _ { N _ { k } } ^ { \bar { a } h m \ 2 }$

Assumption 5. (Property of the stage cost) Given a common control law : X 7→ U then for any parameter realization $d ^ { r } \in \mathbb { D } .$ , the stage cost  is bounded as follows: $\alpha _ { p } ( | x | ) \leq \ell ( x , \kappa ( x ) , d ^ { r } ) \leq \alpha _ { q } ( | x | ) + \sigma _ { q } ( | d ^ { r } - d ^ { 0 } | )$ ) where $\alpha _ { p } ( \cdot ) , \alpha _ { q } ( \cdot ) \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ,$ and $\sigma _ { q } ( \cdot ) \in \mathcal { K }$ .

Assumption 5 requires that the stage cost is positive, with lower and upper bounds proportional to the state at the nominal disturbance. When the disturbance realization is not nominal, the upper bound increases by a term proportional to the distance of the disturbance realization from the nominal.

Assumption 6. (Assumptions on terminal conditions of the adaptive horizon multi-stage MPC). Let Assumption 4 hold for all parameter realizations $d ^ { r } \in \mathbb { D }$ then:
