To overcome the limitation imposed by contact-switching, one approach recasts the undulatory locomotion with leg retraction and protraction as a fluid-like problem with the nonlinearities of foot–ground interactions leading to acquired drag anisotropy and thus models multilegged locomotion as frictional swimming using existing tools [12]. In an alternate approach, Chong et al. [11] use biological observations to prescribe a leg-contact sequence a priori utilizing a single continuous phase variable. A similar approach prescribes a second continuous phase variable to model body undulations. By coupling them together, these phases represent continuous shapes that form a single toroidal shape-space amenable to the geometric framework and capture the discontinuous aspect of legged locomotion through the prescribed leg-contact trajectory [13, 14]. Extending this approach, recent works from Chong et al. [15, 16] combine multiple local connections in multi-link limbless and legged robots into a two-dimensional form by partitioning a single locomotion period into empirically observed contact regions using appropriate shape basis functions. This allows them to compute displacement strengths from the discrete difference between system constraints in adjacent curvature-free modes, and optimize gait sequences by determining transitioning points that maximize net motion accrued in each contact state. However, this method is limited as the authors point out [15], “Simply choosing the local optima as the transitional points can lead to problems such as self-intersection gait paths or gait paths with extremely large perimeters”.

To address these limitations, we propose an alternate wellconditioned formulation for optimizing gaits in hybrid systems utilizing the chain of forms approach [17] - a unified framework for integrating differential forms that mix continuous curvature with sharp corners, similar to how proper functions and Dirac delta functions can be meaningfully integrated together.
