Scheduling logics can be classified broadly into two categories: static and dynamic. In case of the former, a finite length allocation scheme of the network is determined offline and is applied eternally in a periodic manner, while in case of the latter, the allocation of the shared network is determined based on some information about the plant (e.g., states, outputs, access status of sensors and actuators, etc.).

Static scheduling logics are designed using common Lyapunov functions in [5], piecewise Lyapunov-like functions with average dwell time switching in [8], combinatorial optimization with periodic control theory in [12], Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMIs) optimization with average dwell time technique in [2], multiple Lyapunov-like functions and graph theory in [6], and stochastic Lyapunov functions in [7]. Dynamic scheduling logics are designed using eventtriggering in [1], optimal node minimization in [9], distributed control-aware random network access logics in [3] and linear programming techniques in [10].

Recently in [13] the authors consider a shift in paradigm and propose a probabilistic algorithm to design scheduling logics. At every instant of time, this algorithm allocates the shared network to subsets of the plants with certain probabilities. The authors present necessary and sufficient conditions on the plant dynamics and the capacity of the shared network under which a scheduling logic obtained from this algorithm ensures stochastic stability of each plant in the NCS. Given the plant dynamics and capacity of the shared network, they also present an algorithm to design static statefeedback controllers such that the plants, their controllers and the shared network together satisfy the proposed stability conditions. The stability results of [13], however, suffer from two classes of limitations:

◦ The communication network has a limited bandwidth but does not suffer from communication uncertainties such as delays, data losses, etc. In practice, ideal communication is rare.   
◦ The capacity of the communication network is such that the total number of plants is divisible by the communication capacity. This restricts the class of NCSs under consideration.

In this paper we report the applicability of the probabilistic scheduling algorithm presented in [13] to a broader premise in NCS literature. In particular, we cater to
