$$\mathcal {S} _ {s} [ \tau ] = \left\{\sigma : [ 0, \infty) \rightarrow \mathcal {P} \mid t _ {k} - t _ {k - 1} \geq \tau , \text { for all } k \in \mathbb {N} \right\},\mathcal {S} _ {u} [ \eta ] = \left\{\sigma : [ 0, \infty) \rightarrow \mathcal {P} \mid t _ {k} - t _ {k - 1} \leq \eta , \text { for all } k \in \mathbb {N} \right\},\mathcal {S} [ \tau , \eta ] = \left\{\sigma : [ 0, \infty) \rightarrow \mathcal {P} \mid t _ {k} - t _ {k - 1} \geq \tau , \text { for stable } A _ {\sigma (t _ {k - 1})}, \text { and } \right.t _ {k} - t _ {k - 1} \leq \eta , \text { for unstable } A _ {\sigma (t _ {k - 1})}, k \in \mathbb {N} \bigg \}.$$

The class $ { \boldsymbol { S } } _ { s } [ \tau ]$ is relevant only when all the subsystem matrices of the switched system are stable. As defined earlier, the quantity $\tau > 0$ is known as dwell time for any signal $\sigma \in \mathcal { S } _ { s } [ \tau ]$ . Moreover the class $\mathcal { S } _ { u } [ \eta ]$ is relevant only when all the subsystem matrices of the switched system are unstable. As defined earlier, the quantity $\eta > 0$ is known as flee time for any signal $\sigma \in S _ { u } [ \eta ]$ ]. Note that if all the subsystem matrices are stable, then the collection $S [ \tau , \eta ]$ is nothing but the collection $ { \boldsymbol { S } } _ { s } [ \tau ]$ ]. Further if all the subsystem matrices are unstable, then the collection $S [ \tau , \eta ]$ is nothing but the collection $S _ { u } [ \eta ]$ .

As mentioned earlier, if the set of available impulses is restricted, it is not always possible to stabilize the switched system (3) under arbitrary choice of impulses. Simple examples exhibiting this can be constructed when the only available reset is the identity matrix. This leads us to the question of stabilizing a given reset switched system (or impulsive switched system) using time constraints on the signals. Moreover, if the set of resets (or impulses) is known, the question of finding time constraints for stability of switched system for arbitrary assignment of resets (or impulses) is an important issue and can be used to stabilize real-life systems with bounded disturbances. It is mathematically formulated as issue I.4 below.

The above discussion gives rise to the following issues pertaining to reset switched system (2) and impulsive switched system (3).
