$${ x ( t ) } { = } { P _ { \sigma ( t _ { j } ) } \mathrm{e} ^ { J _ { \sigma ( t _ { j } ) } ( t - t _ { j } ) } \left( \prod _ { k = 1 } ^ { j } P _ { \sigma ( t _ { k } ) } ^ { - 1 } I _ { \omega ( t _ { k } ) } P _ { \sigma ( t _ { k - 1 } ) } \mathrm{e} ^ { J _ { \sigma ( t _ { k - 1 } ) } ( t _ { k } - t _ { k - 1 } ) } \right) P _ { \sigma ( t _ { 0 } ) } ^ { - 1 } x ( 0 ) . }$$

It is clear that if the reset (impulse) at a given switching instant is the zero matrix O, then the trajectory jumps to the origin and stays thereafter. Hence to obtain non-trivial results concerning stability, we assume that all the resets (impulses) are nonzero matrices. We will refer to these as nonzero resets (nonzero impulses).

In the following set of results, we prove that for any signal satisfying a given dwell time constraint in stable subsystems and a given flee time constraint in unstable subsystems, it is possible to obtain resets (impulses) so as to ensure stability of the associated reset (impulsive) switched system.

Theorem 3.2. Given a switched system (1) with $\sigma \in S [ \tau , \eta ]$ , there exists a collection R of nonzero resets such that the corresponding reset switched system (2) is stable.

Proof. Suppose $\mathcal { R } = \{ R _ { p , q } : p , q \in \mathcal { P } \}$ be a collection of nonzero resets. We will find conditions on this collection which ensure stability of the corresponding reset switched system. For each $p , q \in { \mathcal { P } }$ , let $A _ { p } = P _ { p } J _ { p } P _ { p } ^ { - 1 }$ be a complex Jordan decomposition of $A _ { p }$ and let $K _ { p , q } ( t ) = \| P _ { q } ^ { - 1 } R _ { ( p , q ) } P _ { p } \mathrm { e } ^ { J _ { p } t } \|$ . The term $K _ { p , q } ( t _ { k } - t _ { k - 1 } )$ is precisely the one that appears in the product in the parentheses in (4) with $\sigma ( t _ { k - 1 } ) = p$ and $\sigma ( t _ { k } ) = q$ . Consider a signal $\sigma \in S [ \tau , \eta ]$ . Using the expression (4) of the flow, we see that the reset switched system is stable if for each $p , q \in \mathcal { P }$ , we have $K _ { p , q } ( t ) \leq 1$ , for all $0 < t \leq \eta$ when $p \in { \mathfrak { u } }$ , and $t \geq \tau$ when $p \in { \mathfrak { s } }$ . Using Remark 3.1,

$$
K _ {p, q} (t) \leq \| P _ {q} ^ {- 1} R _ {(p, q)} P _ {p} \| \| \mathrm{e} ^ {J _ {p} t} \| \leq \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \| P _ {q} ^ {- 1} R _ {(p, q)} P _ {p} \| c _ {p} \mathrm{e} ^ {\mu_ {p} ^ {*} t}, & p \in \mathfrak {u}, \\ \| P _ {q} ^ {- 1} R _ {(p, q)} P _ {p} \| c _ {p} \mathrm{e} ^ {- \lambda_ {p} ^ {*} t}, & p \in \mathfrak {s}. \end{array} \right.
$$
