Graphs. A directed graph is an ordered pair $\mathcal { G } = ( \mathcal { V } ( \mathcal { G } ) , \mathcal { E } ( \mathcal { G } ) )$ , where $\mathcal { V } ( \mathcal { G } )$ is the set of vertices and ${ \mathcal { E } } ( { \mathcal { G } } )$ is a set of ordered pair of vertices, called directed edges. If $( u , v ) \in \mathcal { E } ( \mathcal { G } )$ for some $u , v \in \mathcal { V } ( \mathcal { G } )$ , we say that there is a directed edge from vertex u to vertex v. A loop is a directed edge that connects a vertex to itself. A graph is said to be simple if there are no loops or multiple directed edges from one vertex to another. A cycle is a sequence of directed edges $( u _ { 1 } , u _ { 2 } ) , ( u _ { 2 } , u _ { 3 } ) , \ldots , ( u _ { k } , u _ { k + 1 } )$ , with $u _ { k + 1 } = u _ { 1 }$ . A graph without any cycles is called an acyclic graph. A topological ordering of a directed graph is a total ordering of its vertices such that for every edge, the starting vertex of the edge occurs before the ending vertex of the edge. It is known that a directed graph has a topological ordering if and only if it is acyclic.

Switching governed by an underlying graph. Recall that $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathbb { N } }$ denotes the increasing sequence of switching times of a switching signal σ with $t _ { 0 } = 0$ . We now define switching governed by an underlying graph as follows.

Definition 3.6 (Switching governed by an underlying graph). Let $\{ A _ { p } \colon p \in { \mathcal { P } } \}$ b e a finite set of subsystem matrices, each of size n. Let G be a directed graph with vertices $\mathcal { V } ( \mathcal { G } ) = \{ A _ { p } \colon p \in \mathcal { P } \}$ and a set of directed edges, E(G). Assume that for each $p \in \mathcal P$ , there exists a $q \in \mathcal { P }$ such that $( p , q ) \in { \mathcal { E } } ( { \mathcal { G } } )$ . Any signal satisfying $( A _ { \sigma ( t _ { k - 1 } ) } , A _ { \sigma ( t _ { k } ) } ) \in \mathcal { E } ( \mathcal { G } )$ , for all $k \in \mathbb N$ is called a G-admissible signal. We will denote the set of all G-admissible signals by $S ^ { \mathcal { G } }$ . The switched system ${ \dot { x } } = A _ { \sigma } x$ is said to have switching governed by the graph G if the signal σ is G-admissible.
