(1) stable if for every $\epsilon > 0$ , there exists $\delta > 0$ such that $\| x ( 0 ) \| < \delta$ implies $\| x ( t ) \| < \epsilon$ for all $t > 0$ , and   
(2) asymptotically stable if it is stable and $\| x ( t ) \| \to 0 { \mathrm { ~ a s ~ } } t \to \infty$ for every initial vector $x ( 0 ) \in  { \mathbb { R } } ^ { n }$ ,

The above definitions are valid for more general switched systems and not just for systems of the forms (1), (2), and (3). Note that the asymptotic stability is a strictly stronger notion than just stability, by definition. We say that the impulsive switched system (3), for a given switching signal $\sigma ,$ is stable under arbitrary impulses if the switched system (3) is stable for any choice of ω. A matrix A is said to be Hurwitz stable if all its eigenvalues lie to the left of the imaginary axis. In this case, we will call A, just a stable matrix throughout this paper. A matrix A is known as an unstable matrix if at least one of its eigenvalues lies to the right of the imaginary axis. With reference to the switched systems defined above, a subsystem ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A _ { p } x ( t )$ is said to be a stable subsystem if the subsystem matrix $A _ { p }$ is stable. It is known as an unstable subsystem if the subsystem matrix is unstable.

2.4.1. Switching Signals. Let $\{ t _ { k } \colon k \in \mathbb { N } \}$ be the set of discontinuities of a switching signal σ, which are known as the switching times for the signal σ. We will consider only those switching signals σ which satisfy the following property: $\{ t _ { k } \}$ is an increasing sequence with $t _ { k } \uparrow \infty$ and $t _ { 0 } = 0$ .

Definition 2.1 (Time constraints on signals – Dwell time and Flee time). We say that a switching signal σ has dwell time $\tau > 0$ in a stable subsystem if $t _ { i + 1 } - t _ { i } \geq \tau$ whenever $A _ { \sigma ( t _ { i } ) }$ is a stable matrix. We say that a signal σ has flee time $\eta > 0$ in an unstable subsystem if $t _ { i + 1 } - t _ { i } \le \eta$ whenever $A _ { \sigma ( t _ { i } ) }$ is an unstable matrix. When all the subsystem matrices are stable, we only talk about dwell time. Similarly when all the subsystem matrices are unstable, we only talk about flee time.

We now define the following classes of switching signals that will be used and referred to throughout the paper. For $\tau , \eta > 0$ , define:
