Theorem 3.5. For a given switched system (1) with $\sigma \in S [ \tau , \eta ]$ , there exists a collection I of non-zero impulses such that the corresponding impulsive switched system (3) is stable for each $\omega$ .

Proof. Define $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { T } = \left( \bigcap _ { p \in \mathfrak { s } , q \in \mathcal { P } } S _ { p , q } ^ { \tau } \right) \cap \left( \bigcap _ { p \in \mathfrak { u } , q \in \mathcal { P } } U _ { p , q } ^ { \eta } \right) } \end{array}$ . Then $\| P _ { q } ^ { - 1 } M P _ { p } \| \le C ( \tau , \eta )$ , for all $M \in { \mathcal { I } } , p , q \in { \mathcal { P } }$ , where

$C ( \tau , \eta ) =$ min $\begin{array} { r } { \left\{ \operatorname* { m i n } _ { p \in \mathfrak { u } } \ c _ { p } ^ { - 1 } \mathrm { e } ^ { - \mu _ { p } ^ { * } \eta } \right. } \end{array}$ , m $\mathrm { i n } _ { p \in \mathfrak { s } } ~ c _ { p } ^ { - 1 } \mathrm { e } ^ { \lambda _ { p } ^ { \ast } \tau } \bigr \}$ . Note that, for fixed dwell time $\tau _ { \mathrm { { i } } }$ , as flee time η decreases, $C ( \bar { \tau } , \eta )$ is non-decreasing. Hence the collection I expands. Further, for fixed flee time η, as dwell time τ increases, $C ( \tau , \eta )$ ) non-decreasing. Hence the collection I expands. □

Now we focus on the converse problem of computing dwell time constraint τ and flee time constraint η for which the given reset switched system (2) is stable for all signals $\sigma \in S [ \tau , \eta ]$ . Note that if the dwell time τ is sufficiently large, then $\| P _ { q } ^ { - 1 } R _ { ( p , q ) } P _ { p } \mathrm { e } ^ { J _ { p } t } \| ^ { - } < 1$ , for all $p \in { \mathfrak { s } }$ . However, choosing a suitable flee time η is not so straightforward. To this end, we will work with switched systems where switching from an unstable susbsystem is restricted. We now describe the notion of graph dependent switched systems where the underlying graph has subsystems as vertices and the edges between vertices determine the allowed switchings between associated subsystems. Stability issues for such systems (without resets/impulses) are well-studied in the literature, see [1, 2, 16].
