Algorithm 1 and Theorem 1 together form our solution to Problem 1. Condition (3) involves properties of both the sets $s _ { j } , ~ j ~ = ~ 1 , 2 , \ldots , \nu$ and the scalars $p _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , \nu$ , and the data loss probability, 𝑞. It ensures that the dynamics corresponding to the indices picked in $s _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , \nu _ { \mathrm { { \scriptscriptstyle f } } }$ , the scalars $p _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , \ldots , 1$ 𝑣 and the scalar 𝑞, together satisfy an inequality involving the existence of certain positive definite matrices, $P _ { i _ { s } } , P _ { i _ { u } } , i \in s _ { j } , j = 1 , 2 , . . . , \nu$ . The choice of $s _ { j } ,$ $j = 1 , 2 , \dots , \nu$ depends on the capacity of the communication network. Thus, our sufficient condition for stability under 𝛾 obtained from Algorithm 1, involves the plant dynamics, the capacity of the communication network and the probability of data loss.

Remark 2: In [13, Theorem 1] necessary and sufficient conditions for stochastic stability of each plant $i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N$ under a scheduling logic, $\gamma ,$ obtained from a probabilistic algorithm was presented. The said result is specific to the setting where the shared communication network has a limited communication capacity but does not suffer from communication uncertainties like delays, data losses, etc. Theorem 1 in the current paper provides stability condition under probabilistic scheduling when the shared communication network has a limited capacity and is prone to data losses.

Remark 3: The mathematical apparatus that allows us to arrive at [13, Theorem 1] and Theorem 1 in the current paper is a Markovian jump linear system representation of the individual plants in an NCS. The stability conditions of [13] and the current paper differ in the definition of $\mathcal { P } ^ { i } - \mathrm { i t }$ does not include the data loss probability, $q ,$ in [13]. This is obtained from the difference between the Markovian jump linear systems model of the plant dynamics under limited bandwidth but no data loss and the model of the plant dynamics under limited bandwidth and data losses. In both the cases off-the-shelf stability conditions for Markovian jump linear systems suffice for the analysis.
