The parameters for FFTS-ESO in these simulations are $p ~ = ~ 1 . 2 , k _ { t 1 } ~ = ~ 3 , k _ { t 2 } ~ = ~ 2 , k _ { t 3 } ~ = ~ 2 , \kappa _ { t } ~ = ~ 0 . 1 , ~ k _ { a 1 } ~ = ~$ $5 , k _ { a 2 } \ = \ 4 , k _ { a 3 } \ = \ 2 , \kappa _ { a } \ = \ 0 . 3 .$ . The parameters for the tracking control scheme in the simulations are $p = 1 . 2 , k _ { T P } =$ $5 , k _ { T D } = 1 6 , L _ { P } = I , \kappa _ { T } = 2 , k _ { A P } = 1 2 , k _ { A D } = 6 , k _ { A I } =$ $2 , \kappa _ { A } \ = \ 2 , L _ { A } \ = \ I$ . The gains for FxTSDO and LESO are as given in Liu et al.[12] and Shao et al.[11]. In the simulated flight, the initial states of the UAV for all four scenarios are: $R ( 0 ) ~ = ~ I , ~ \Omega ( 0 ) ~ = ~ [ 0 , ~ 0 , ~ 0 ] ^ { \mathrm { T } } \mathrm { r a d / s } , b ( 0 ) ~ =$ $\left[ 0 . 0 1 , \ 0 , \ 0 \right] ^ { \mathrm { T } } \mathbf { m } , \ v ( 0 ) = \left[ 5 \pi , \ 0 , \ 0 \right] ^ { \mathrm { T } } \mathbf { m } / \mathrm { s }$ . The initial conditions of the FxTSDO, LESO, and FFTS-ESO, are identical to the pose, velocities and disturbance of the UAV at the initial time in the simulation.

We present the simulation results in four sets of figures. Fig. 2 and 3 present the disturbance force and torque estimation errors respectively, from FxTSDO, LESO and FFTS-ESO in the flight scenarios described in Table I with noise-free measurements. Fig. 4 and 5 present the disturbance estimation errors from these schemes for the flight trajectories in Table I, in the presence of measurement noise levels as described in Table II.

Fig. 2 shows the disturbance force estimation errors from the three schemes with noise-free measurements. Although the disturbance force estimation error from FxTSDO shows significant initial transient, the results from Fig. 2 indicates that with noise-free measurement, the disturbance force estimations from these three schemes converge to the origin in all four flight scenarios. The transients at t = 15 s are from the stepfunction disturbance force $\varphi _ { D }$ , whose step time is $t \ = \ 1 5$ s. Fig. 3 shows the disturbance torque estimation errors from the three schemes with noise-free measurement. In Fig. 3, we observe that when $t = 1 0 \mathrm { ~ s ~ } ,$ , high transients appears in the disturbance torque estimation error from FxTSDO.
