# I. INTRODUCTION

Small-scale rotorcraft unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have become increasingly popular in various applications, such as security and monitoring, infrastructure inspection, agriculture, wildland management, package delivery, and remote sensing. However, these UAVs are frequently exposed to dynamic uncertainties and disturbances caused by turbulence induced by airflow around structures or regions. Therefore, it is crucial to ensure robust flight control performance in such challenging environments, with guaranteed stability margins even in the presence of dynamic disturbances and uncertainties. To this end, this article describes robust tracking control schemes for a rotorcraft UAV under disturbances and uncertainties.

Recent research articles on rotorcraft the UAV tracking control schemes use different methods to tackle the adverse effects of disturbances and uncertainties during the flight. Torrente et al. [1] use Gaussian processes to complement the nominal dynamics of the multi-rotor in a model predictive control (MPC) pipeline. Hanover et al. [2] use an explicit scheme to discretize the dynamics for the nonlinear MPC solved by optimization. Bangura et al. [3] use the propeller The authors acknowledge support from the National Science Foundation award 2132799. 1 Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY 13244, USA {nwang16,rhamrah,aksanyal,mglauser}@syr.edu

aerodynamics as a direct feedforward term on the desired thrust to re-regulate the thrust command of the rotors. Craig et al. [4] implement a set of pitot tubes onto the multirotor aircraft to directly sense the aircraft’s airspeed. With the knowledge of propeller aerodynamic characteristics, the airspeed is then utilized to obtain the disturbance forces and torques as feedforward terms to enhance control performance. Bisheban et al. [5] use artificial neural networks to obtain disturbance forces and torques with the kinematics information of the aircraft and then use the baseline control scheme based on the work by Lee et al. [6] in their tracking control scheme design. The methods used in these research articles either need high computational efforts [1], [2], [5] or require precise modeling of the aerodynamic characteristics of the rotorcraft propellers [3], [4], to obtain satisfactory control performance against disturbances.
