# I. Introduction

Networked Control Systems (NCSs) are spatially distributed control systems in which the communication between plants and their controllers occurs through shared communication networks. NCSs find wide applications in sensor networks, remote surgery, haptics collaboration over the internet, automated highway systems, unmanned aerial vehicles, etc. [4].

In NCSs the number of plants sharing a communication network is often higher than the capacity of the network. Examples of communication networks with limited bandwidth include wireless networks, which is an important component of smart home, smart transportation, smart city, remote surgery, platoons of autonomous vehicles, etc. and underwater acoustic communication systems [13]. In addition, the network may undergo communication uncertainties, e.g., data losses. Data loss is a common feature for noisy communication networks. For instance, in cloud-aided vehicle control systems, the control values are computed remotely and transmitted to the vehicles over noisy wireless networks. The interference and fading effects in the noisy network often lead to data losses [11]. These scenarios motivate the need to allocate the communication network to each plant in a manner so that good qualitative and quantitative properties of the plants are preserved under communication uncertainties. The task of efficient allocation of a shared communication network is commonly referred to as a scheduling problem and the corresponding allocation scheme is called a scheduling logic. In this paper we are interested in algorithmic design of scheduling logics for NCSs.

Anubhab Dasgupta is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, West Bengal - 721302, India. Darsana Udayakumar and Atreyee Kundu are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, West Bengal - 721302, India. Emails: {anubhab.dasgupta,darsana udayakumar}@kgpian.iitkgp.ac.in, atreyee@ee.iitkgp.ac.in
