There are several methods to ensure the stability of the above-mentioned ESO/DO designs used for rotorcraft tracking control. The linear ESO by Shao et al. [11] is AS. Mechali et al. [13] use the concept of geometric homogeneity [21] to obtain an FTS ESO. A similar method is proposed in the ESO design by Guo et al. [22]. The Lyapunov functions/candidates used in the ESO stability analysis by Mechali et al. [13] and Guo et al. [22] are based on Rosier [21], and are presented implicitly. Jia et al. [15], Moeini et al. [17] and Liu et al. [12] use variants of the DO proposed by Chen [9]. Another method is to use the super-twisting algorithm (STA) [23] to obtain ESO design. Xia et al. [24] use this method in ESO design for spacecraft attitude control, and Cui et al. [18] design an adaptive super-twisting ESO using a similar method in a multirotor ADRC scheme.

In much of the prior literature for rotorcraft UAV attitude control with ESO/DOs for disturbance torque estimation and rejection in rotational dynamics, the attitude kinematics of the ESOs/DOs are either based on local linearization or represented using local coordinates (like Euler angles) or quaternions. Local coordinate representations can have singularity issues (e.g., gimbal lock with Euler angles), while quaternion representations may cause instability due to unwinding [25], [26]. In situations where the UAVs have to carry out aggressive maneuvers, as in rapid collision avoidance for example, disturbance estimation and rejection from such schemes may not be reliable or accurate enough for precise control of the UAV.
