# 2. Preliminaries and Problem Setup

In this section, we first define the three types of time-dependent continuous-time linear switched systems. Then we define various stability notions for these systems. We then discuss notions of dwell time and flee time for a switching signal. At the end of this section, we will discuss issues that will be the focus of this work.

2.1. A Linear Switched System. Let $\{ A _ { p } \colon p \in { \mathcal { P } } \}$ be a finite collection of real matrices of size $n _ { \mathrm { : } }$ , where $\mathcal { P }$ is a fixed finite index set. A time-dependent linear switched system, $\Sigma _ { \sigma }$ , is defined as

$$\Sigma_ {\sigma}: \dot {x} (t) = A _ {\sigma (t)} x (t), \tag {1}$$

where $\ b { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\sigma \colon [ 0 , \infty )  { \mathcal { P } }$ is a right-continuous piecewise constant function, known as a switching signal. Here ${ \dot { x } } ( t )$ denotes the derivative of the state $x ( t )$ with respect to the time variable t. The switched system (1) has $| \mathcal { P } |$ many subsystems given by ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A _ { p } x ( t )$ for each $p \in \mathcal P$ . If $\sigma ( t ) = p$ , the dynamics of the switched system is governed by the subsystem ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A _ { p } x ( t )$ . The switching signal $\sigma$ is, thus, a rule determining the active subsystem at any time instant t.

2.2. The Classic Reset Switched System. Let $\{ A _ { p } \colon p \in { \mathcal { P } } \}$ be a finite collection of real matrices of size $n ,$ where $\mathcal { P }$ is a fixed finite index set, as given above. Let $\sigma \colon [ 0 , \infty ) $ $\mathcal { P }$ be a switching signal (with properties defined above) having the set of discontinuities as $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \geq 1 }$ satisfying $t _ { i } < t _ { i + 1 }$ , for all $i \geq 1$ . Let $\mathcal { R } = \{ R _ { ( p , q ) } \colon p , q \in \mathcal { P } \}$ be a collection of real matrices of size $n .$ The matrices in this collection are known as reset matrices. A reset switched system, $\Sigma _ { \sigma } ^ { \mathcal { R } }$ , is defined as

$$\Sigma_ {\sigma} ^ {\mathcal {R}} \colon \dot {x} (t) = A _ {\sigma (t)} x (t), x (t _ {k}) = R _ {(\sigma (t _ {k - 1}), \sigma (t _ {k}))} x (t _ {k} ^ {-}), \tag {2}$$
