$$Q _ {p} A _ {p} + A _ {p} ^ {\top} Q _ {p} < 0, \quad \text { for all } p \in \mathcal {P}, \tag {9}\mathrm{e} ^ {A _ {q} ^ {\top} \tau} M ^ {\top} Q _ {p} M \mathrm{e} ^ {A _ {q} \tau} \leq Q _ {q}, \text { for all } p, q \in \mathcal {P} \text { and } M \in \mathcal {I}, \tag {10}$$

are satisfied. Then the impulsive switched system (3) is stable under arbitrary impulses for all signals $\sigma \in \mathcal { S } _ { s } [ \tau ]$ .

Proof. The proof follows from that of Theorem 4.3 by using conditions (9) and (10) instead. □

4.2. When some subsystems are unstable. The methods used in Section 4.1 can not be extended to switched systems containing unstable subsystems. For such systems, we use Lyapunov-like functions for the unstable subsystems. These functions are allowed to increase along the solution trajectories of the unstable subsystems but with a bounded increase rate. The increment caused by the unstable subsystems is compensated by the decrement produced by stable subsystems. As earlier, let $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \geq 1 }$ denote the increasing sequence of discontinuities of σ. Define

$$N _ {s} (0, t) = \# \{i \colon 0 \leq t _ {i} < t, \sigma (t _ {i}) \in \mathfrak {s} \}, N _ {u} (0, t) = \# \{i \colon 0 \leq t _ {i} < t, \sigma (t _ {i}) \in \mathfrak {u} \},N (0, t) = N _ {s} (0, t) + N _ {u} (0, t),$$

which is the number switches of σ to stable subsystems, number of switches of σ to unstable subsystems and total number of switches of σ in the time interval (0, t), respectively. With these notations, we address the issue I.3.

Theorem 4.5. Given the reset switched system (2), suppose there exist a collection of symmetric, positive definite matrices $\{ Q _ { p } \in \ M _ { n } ( \mathbb { R } ) \colon \ p \in \mathcal { P } \}$ , positive constants $\lambda _ { p }$ for $p \in { \mathfrak { s } } , \mu _ { p } f o r p \in { \mathfrak { u } }$ , and $\gamma _ { ( p , q ) } , f o r p , q \in \mathcal { P }$ satisfying

$$Q _ {p} A _ {p} + A _ {p} ^ {\top} Q _ {p} \leq - \lambda_ {p} Q _ {p}, f o r a l l p \in \mathfrak {s}, Q _ {p} A _ {p} + A _ {p} ^ {\top} Q _ {p} \leq \mu_ {p} Q _ {p}, f o r a l l p \in \mathfrak {u},R _ {(p, q)} ^ {\top} Q _ {q} R _ {(p, q)} \leq \gamma_ {(p, q)} Q _ {p}, \quad \text { for all } p, q \in \mathcal {P}.$$
