# 1. Introduction

A continuous-time switched linear system is a special kind of time-variant system, which comprises a family of linear time-invariant subsystems and a switching law which determines the active subsystem at any given instant. For switched systems, various stability issues, such as, stability under arbitrary switching [3, 21, 29] and stability under constrained switching [1, 11, 24, 25], are addressed in the literature. These issues stem from the fact that a switched system can be unstable even if all the subsystems involved are stable [20]. When working with switched systems, it is usually assumed that the state evolves continuously at the switching instances. However, impulses are commonly experienced in real life systems when there are abrupt changes in the system, for instance, in a router with multiple buffers [19] and certain drug administration procedures [18]. It is, thus, natural to consider switched systems with jumps or impulses at switching instances.

Impulses experienced by a system are usually viewed as either disturbances, for example, packet loss during data transmission through a router, or a consequence of impulsive control of continuous-time systems [8]. A well-known approach to achieve stability is resetting the state at switching instances, see [22] for switched systems and [27] for switched singular systems. Here, the state jump occurring at any given switching instant depends on the subsystems active before and after the switching instant. Such systems are called reset switched systems. It is known that when all subsystems are asymptotically stable, there exist resets such that the reset switched system is asymptotically stable [5]. However, if the set of available resets is restricted, it may not always be possible to stabilize the reset switched system no matter how the resets are assigned.
