A promising control technique to maintain the control performance against disturbances and uncertainties is active disturbance rejection control (ADRC), which can be traced back to the dissertation by Hartlieb [7]. In an ADRC scheme, we first obtain an estimation of the unknown disturbance from a disturbance observer (DO) or an extended state observer (ESO) and then utilize it in the control design to reject the disturbance. ADRC and ESO are formally introduced in combination in [8], where the ESO is used to obtain disturbance estimates for disturbance rejection. Other than ESO, disturbance observer (DO) [9], and unknown input observer (UIO) [10] can also give disturbance estimates for a disturbance rejection control scheme.

ADRC schemes are widely used for rotorcraft UAV control. In the research articles by Shao et al. [11], the disturbance estimation from asymptotically stable (AS) ESOs is employed to enhance surface trajectory tracking control scheme for a multi-rotor UAV in the presence of parametric uncertainties and external disturbances. Liu et al. [12] propose fixed-time stable disturbance observers (FxTSDO) and fault-tolerance mechanisms and utilize them in their translation and attitude control scheme. Mechali et al. [13] present FxTS ESOs for the same purpose. Wang et al. [14] implement incremental nonlinear dynamics inversion (INDI) control combined with a sliding-mode observer (SMO) for disturbance estimation and rejection. Jia et al. [15] employ the disturbance model obtained by Faessler et al. [16], and then estimate the drag coefficient as a parameter. This disturbance model is also employed by Moeini et al. [17]. Cui et al. [18] use an adaptive super-twisting ESO for the disturbance estimation. Bhale et al. [19] carry out disturbance estimation with the discrete-time finite-time stable (FTS) disturbance observer by Sanyal [20].
