where $C$ is defined by (44), which express the set of the critical points. With Theorem 8.4 from Khalil [43], we conclude that $( E _ { R } , e _ { \Omega } , e _ { \tau } )$ converge to the set:

$$S = \left\{\left(E _ {R}, e _ {\Omega}, e _ {\tau}\right) \in \mathrm{SO} (3) \times \mathbb {R} ^ {3} \times \mathbb {R} ^ {3}: \right. \tag {82}E _ {R} \in C, e _ {\Omega} = 0, \text { and } e _ {\tau} = 0 \},$$

in finite time. Based on (79), and Lemma 2, we conclude that when the ESO gains satisfy the constraints in Proposition 2, the set of equilibrium S for the error dynamics (72) is fast finite time stable.

In S, the only stable equilibrium is (I, 0, 0), while the other three are unstable. The resulting closed-loop system with the estimation errors gives rise to a Holder-continuous feedback¨ with exponent less than one $( 1 / 2 < 1 / p < 1 )$ , while in the limiting case of $p \ = \ 1$ , the feedback system is Lipschitzcontinuous. Proceeding with a topological equivalence-based analysis similar to the one by Bohn et al.[41], we conclude that the equilibrium and the corresponding regions of attraction of the rotational ESO with $p \in ] 1$ , 2[ are identical to those of the corresponding Lipschitz-continuous asymptotically stable ESO with $p = 1$ , and the region of attraction is almost global.

To summarize, we conclude that the error dynamics (58) is almost globally FFTS (AG-FFTS) at the origin $( ( E _ { R } , e _ { \Omega } , e _ { \tau } ) = ( I , 0 , 0 ) )$ when the resultant disturbance torque is constant $( \dot { \tau } _ { D } = 0 )$ , and the gains of the ESO are constrained according to Proposition 2. This concludes the proof of Theorem 3.

Remark 2 (Disturbance robustness of the ESO). Consider Corollary 1 and its constraints on differentiator gains. When the disturbance forces and torques are time-varying, then $\| \dot { \varphi } _ { D } \| , \| \dot { \tau } _ { D } \| ~ > ~ 0$ . Further, if the constraints on gains in Corollary 1 are fulfilled, the estimation error dynamics of the proposed ESO will be practically finite-time stable (PFTS).
