This article presents a scheme enhanced by ESO on SE(3)for rotorcraft UAVs under complex and challenging aerodynamic environments. The ESO on SE(3) estimates the disturbance forces and torques during the flight of a rotorcraft UAV in both translation and rotation. The ADRC scheme on SE(3) then incorporates the disturbance estimation from the ESO and the feedback from tracking control schemes to drive the UAV to the desired trajectory. The ESO and ADRC schemes are fast finite-time stable (FFTS), abbreviated as FFTS-ESO and FFTS-ADRC, respectively. The tracking control module with fast finite-time stability is developed based on the research article by Viswanathan et al. [27]. The FFTS-ESO design is based on a novel Holder-continuous fast ¨ finite-time stable differentiator (HC-FFTSD). We carry out several sets of numerical simulations to show the validity of the proposed FFTS-ESO and FFTS-ADRC schemes.

We highlight some unique contributions of this article.

• The proposed ESO is the major contribution of this article. In the proposed ESO, which is the core of the proposed ADRC scheme, the pose of the rotorcraft is represented directly on the Lie group of rigid body transformations, the special Euclidean group SE(3). Unlike the ESO and DO designs reported by Mechali et al. [13], Shao et al. [11], and Cui et al. [18], which use Euler angles or quaternions for attitude representation or do not include attitude kinematics, like the DO by Bhale et al. [19] in disturbance torque estimation, the pose of the aircraft in this article is represented in SE(3)to avoid kinematic singularities. We do not use local coordinates (like Euler angles) or (dual) quaternions for pose rep-

resentation so that we avoid singularities due to local coordinate representations or quaternion unwinding, as reported by Bhat et al. [25], and Chaturvedi et al. [26]. To the best of the author’s knowledge, there is no existing publication on aircraft ADRC using ESO with pose representation on SE(3).
