2.3. A Linear Impulsive Switched System. Let $\{ A _ { p } \colon p \in { \mathcal { P } } \}$ be a finite collection of real matrices of size $n ,$ where $\mathcal { P }$ is a fixed finite index set, as given above. Let $\sigma \colon [ 0 , \infty ) $ $\mathcal { P }$ be a switching signal (with properties defined above) having the set of discontinuities $\{ t _ { k } \} _ { k \geq 1 }$ satisfying $t _ { k } < t _ { k + 1 }$ , for all $k \geq 1$ . Consider the collection ${ \mathcal { T } } = \{ I _ { q } \colon q \in { \mathcal { Q } } \}$ of real matrices of size $n .$ , where $\mathcal { Q }$ is a fixed index set. Each matrix in this collection is known as a linear impulse. Let ω : $\{ t _ { 1 } , t _ { 2 } , \dots \} \to \mathcal { Q }$ be a function. A linear impulsive switched system, $\Sigma _ { \sigma , \omega } ^ { \mathcal { Z } } ,$ is defined as

$$\Sigma_ {\sigma , \omega} ^ {\mathcal {I}}: \dot {x} (t) = A _ {\sigma (t)} x (t), x \left(t _ {k}\right) = I _ {\omega \left(t _ {k}\right)} x \left(t _ {k} ^ {-}\right), \tag {3}$$

where $x ( t _ { k } ^ { - } ) = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  t _ { k } ^ { - } } x ( t )$ .

Observe that, by setting ${ \mathcal { Q } } = { \mathcal { P } } \times { \mathcal { P } }$ and $\omega ( t _ { k } ) = ( \sigma ( t _ { k } ^ { - } ) , \sigma ( t _ { k } ) )$ for each $k \geq 1$ , the reset switched system (2) is indeed an impulsive switched system. Moreover, the impulsive switched system is more robust to disturbances than the reset switched system since it allows for resets at each switching instant that do not depend on the subsystem active just before and just after the switching instant. It, hence, serves as a model for systems where disturbances or impulses are dependent only on the time at the switching instant. It should also be noted that the presence of impulses may destabilize an otherwise stable system, examples will be discussed later.

2.4. Stability notions. Each of the switched systems (1), (2), (3) induces a flow on the state space $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . The dynamics of points on the state space under this flow gives rise to various stability notions which we define below. Let $x ( t )$ denote the flow of a point $x ( 0 )$ , where the dependence on $\sigma$ has been suppressed for notational simplicity. The switched system is said to be
