# 3 Rational Neural Networks

There has been little prior work investigating NNs with rational expressions for control. [20] showed the expressive power of using rational activation functions and how they can be used to approximate commonly used activation functions such as ReLU. The effectiveness of rational NNs in machine learning tasks was shown in [39]. Polynomial activation functions have also been used in previous work [40, 41, 42, 43, 44], however they have not seen much investigation within the machine learning research community due to vanishing and exploding gradients that can be exhibited when used with the backpropagation algorithm [45]. Another class of NNs that has seen recent interest are quadratic NNs. These can take many different forms, which are summarised in [46]. Quadratic NNs have been shown to be beneficial in many aspects [47, 22, 48], such as being general universal function approximators. Recent work from [49] has explored the use of a two-layer NN controller that has quadratic activation functions and how a convex formulation can be achieved using this structure.

One of the benefits of using polynomial or rational activation functions in the NN is that they can contain trainable parameters, which can improve the performance of the NN and reduce the number of neurons in the network. For example, the rational activation function used in [39] is expressed as

$$\phi (x) = \frac {P (x)}{Q (x)} = \frac {\sum_ {i = 0} ^ {r _ {P}} a _ {i} x ^ {i}}{\sum_ {j = 0} ^ {r _ {Q}} b _ {j} x ^ {j}}, \tag {10}$$

where $r _ { P } = \deg ( P ( x ) ) , r _ { Q } = \deg ( Q ( x ) )$ and $a _ { i }$ and $b _ { j }$ are the trainable parameters within the activation function. Another proposed activation function based on rational functions is the Padé activation unit, which has shown to be useful when applied to image classification [50]. This activation function is expressed as

$$\phi (x) = \frac {P (x)}{Q (x)} = \frac {\sum_ {i = 0} ^ {r _ {P}} a _ {i} x ^ {i}}{1 + | \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {r _ {Q}} b _ {j} x ^ {j} |}$$

and can be used to learn and approximate commonly used activation functions, whilst training the NN. The resulting NNs can have compact representations and can perform similarly to state-of-the-art NNs.
