The key contribution of our paper is to provide a solution to a robust regret optimal control problem. We formulate the output feedback control problem in Section III-A with an uncertain plant and general interconnection used in the robust control literature [1], [2]. We define robust regret relative to the performance achieved by the optimal non-causal controller on the nominal plant (with no uncertainty). We use a definition of regret that includes as special cases $H _ { \infty }$ control [1], [2], [15], (additive) regret [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8] and (multiplicative) competitive ratio [9], [10]. Our definition of regret is a special case of regret-optimal control with weights [10] (although we include model uncertainty). It is important to note that model uncertainty is not equivalent to an exogenous disturbance. For example, model uncertainty can cause an instability and unbounded signals but this is not possible with bounded disturbances. This distinct feature of model uncertainty motivates the importance of considering robustness in addition to the disturbance rejection.

We solve the robust regret problem using a similar solution approach as in these prior works. First we derive the optimal non-causal controller from [16] in our more general setting (Section II-C). Second, the robust regret problem is converted, via a spectral factorization of the optimal non-causal cost, to an equivalent robust synthesis problem (Section III-B). The robust synthesis problem is non-convex but a sub-optimal controller can be computed via a coordinatewise search known as DK-iteration or µ-synthesis [17], [18], [19], [20], [21]. As an intermediate step, we solve the nominal regret problem in Section II for the case of known plant dynamics. As noted above, the nominal case generalizes the cost function and definition of regret compared to previous works. The nominal case also forms the foundation for our main results on robust regret with model uncertainty. Section IV provides examples to compare the proposed method against existing robust control methods, e.g. $H _ { \infty }$ control, and (nominal) regret-based methods, e.g. additive regret and competitive ratio.
