# 7.2. Software configuration

The flight control software is developed from the open-source autopilot software PX4 v1.13.2. According to Meier et al. (2015), the system architecture of PX4 is centered around a publishsubscribe object request broker on top of a POSIX application programming interface. This programming interface has different modules for data logging, communication, estimation, and control. The FFTS-ESO is implemented onto the module mc pos control and mc rate control for translational and rotational motions, respectively. The feedback of disturbance estimates from the FFTS-ESO is applied to the control law as an additional term, so that the original control architecture is modified with this feedforward disturbance rejection term. We introduce Boolean parameters to switch the disturbance rejection conveniently.

In the experiment, the rest of the autopilot (PX4 v1.13.2) is kept unchanged, to have a fair comparison of the flight control performance between the original PX4 autopilot, and the one with disturbance rejection from FFTS-ESO. The flight control parameters of the autopilot are as described in the multi-rotor frame S500 in https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/. A Robot Operating System (ROS) interface program is developed for the companion computer that transmits commands and pose to the vehicle. The flight data are saved in the memory card inside the FCU in the form of .ulg file for post-processing. We use the MAVLINK telecommunication protocol for communication between the FCU, companion computer, and ground control station.

The FFTS-ESO parameters are selected as: $p ~ = ~ 1 . 2 , k _ { t 1 } ~ = ~ 6 , k _ { t 2 } ~ = ~ 3 , k _ { t 3 } ~ = ~ 1 , \kappa _ { t } ~ = ~ 0 . 6 ,$ , $k _ { a 1 } = 8 , k _ { a 2 } = 4 , k _ { a 3 } = 2 , \kappa _ { a } = 0 . 6$ . The empirically known mass and inertia of the vehicle as given to the FFTS-ESO are: m = 1 kg and $J = \mathrm { d i a g } ( [ 0 . 0 3 , 0 . 0 3 , 0 . 0 6 ] ) ~ \mathrm { k g \cdot m ^ { 2 } }$ . We link the source code of the customized PX4 with FFTS-ESO on Github.1
