# 3.3 Input mapping inversion

Let i∗ be an appropriate value of the current i such that $v ( z , i ^ { * } ) = v ^ { * }$ , with $v ^ { * }$ given in (5). Note that since $v ^ { * }$ is a state feedback control law, the value for i is generally time-varying. Define the input error ˜v ≜ $v ^ { * } - v ( z , i _ { r e f } ) =$ $v ( z , i ^ { * } ) - v ( z , i _ { r e f } )$ and $\begin{array} { r } { d ( z , \dot { z } , \dot { r } , \ddot { r } ) \triangleq \dot { v } ^ { * } - \frac { \partial v ( z , i _ { r e f } ) } { \partial z } \dot { z } } \end{array}$ .

Assumption 1. The signal $d ( z , \dot { z } , r , \dot { r } , \ddot { r } )$ is bounded, i.e. $\exists \Delta _ { 1 } > 0$ , such that $| d ( \bar { z } , \dot { z } , r , \dot { r } , \ddot { r } ) | \le \Delta _ { 1 } , \forall t \ge 0$ .

Proposition 1. The adaptive law

$$\frac {d i _ {r e f}}{d t} = \gamma \left(\frac {\partial v (z , i _ {r e f})}{\partial i _ {r e f}}\right) ^ {- 1} \mathrm{sgn} (\tilde {v}) \tag {6}$$

with $\gamma > 0$ such that

$$\gamma > \Delta_ {1} \geq \left| \dot {v} ^ {*} - \frac {\partial v (z , i _ {r e f})}{\partial z} \dot {z} \right| \tag {7}$$

stabilises the input error ˜v dynamics at the origin in finite time.

Proof. The dynamics of the input error reads:

$$\dot {\tilde {v}} = \dot {v} ^ {*} - \dot {v} (z, i _ {r e f}) = \underbrace {\dot {v} ^ {*} - \frac {\partial v (z , i _ {r e f})}{\partial z} \dot {z}} _ {d (z, \dot {z}, \dot {r}, \ddot {r})} - \frac {\partial v (z , i _ {r e f})}{\partial i _ {r e f}} \frac {d i _ {r e f}}{d t}$$

Inserting the adaptive law (6) in the equation above gives

$$\dot {\tilde {v}} = - \gamma \mathrm{sgn} (\tilde {v}) + d (z, \dot {z}, r, \dot {r}, \ddot {r}) \tag {8}$$

Under assumption 1, selecting $\gamma > \Delta _ { 1 }$ ensures convergence of ˜v to the origin in finite time (Shtessel et al., 2014). ■

Remark 1. The adaptative law in (6) is implementable only if the gradient $\frac { \partial v ( z , i _ { r e f } ) } { \partial i _ { r e f } }$ ∂v(z,iref ) is not vanishing, i.e. only ∂iref if changes in $i _ { r e f }$ affect the input estimation error. This translates to the requirement that $\forall t \geq 0$ the points $( z ( t ) , i _ { r e f } ( t ) )$ do not belong to the zero set of $\frac { \partial v ( \bar { z } , i _ { r e f } ) } { \partial i _ { r e f } }$ ∂iref , which is the curve $\begin{array} { r } { z ^ { 2 } + \frac { 2 s _ { 0 } } { i _ { 0 } } i _ { r e f } z + s _ { 0 } ^ { 2 } = 0 } \end{array}$ , i.e. $\forall t \geq 0$

$$(z, i _ {r e f}) \notin \mathcal {C} = \left\{z, i _ {r e f} \in \mathbb {R} \mid z ^ {2} + \frac {2 s _ {0}}{i _ {0}} i _ {r e f} z + s _ {0} ^ {2} = 0 \right\}. \tag {9}$$

This can be seen as a controllability condition for the input error dynamics with diref being the “input” to the system. $\frac { d i _ { r e f } } { d t }$

Remark 2. The result of Proposition 1 does not depend on the selection of the control law $v ^ { * }$ for the z dynamics. In fact the signals ˙v∗, $\frac { \partial v ( z , i _ { r e f } ) } { \partial z } \dot { z }$ can be computed at each time instant so long v∗ is differentiable almost everywhere.
