# A. Notation

This subsection reviews basic notation regarding vectors, matrices, signals and systems. This material can be found in most standard texts on signals and systems, e.g. [1], [2].

Let $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ denote the sets of real $n \times 1$ vectors and $n \times m$ matrices, respectively. Similarly, $\mathbb { C } ^ { n }$ and $\mathbb { C } ^ { n \times m }$ denote the sets of complex vectors and matrices of given dimensions. The superscripts ⊤ and ∗ denote transpose and complex conjugate (Hermitian) transpose of a matrix. Moreover, if $M \in \mathbb { C } ^ { n \times n }$ then $M ^ { - \top }$ denotes $( M ^ { \top } ) ^ { - 1 } = ( M ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { \top }$ . The Euclidean norm (2-norm) for a vector $v \in \mathbb { C } ^ { n }$ is defined to be $\begin{array} { r } { \| v \| _ { 2 } : = \sqrt { v ^ { * } v } = \sqrt { \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } | v _ { i } | ^ { 2 } } } \end{array}$ . The induced 2-norm for a matrix $M \in \mathbb { C } ^ { n \times m }$ is defined to be:

$$\| M \| _ {2 \to 2} := \max _ {0 \neq d \in \mathbb {C} ^ {m}} \frac {\| M d \| _ {2}}{\| d \| _ {2}}.$$

The induced 2-norm for a matrix M is equal to the maximum singular value, i.e. $\| M \| _ { 2 \to 2 } =$ $\bar { \sigma } ( M )$ (Section 2.8 of [1]). Similarly, $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ denote the sets of $n \times 1$ real vectors and $n \times m$ real matrices, respectively. The same definitions for the vector 2-norm and matrix induced 2-norm hold for real vectors and matrices.

The sets of integers and nonnegative integers are denoted by $\mathbb { Z }$ and N. Let $v : \mathbb { Z } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $w : \mathbb { Z } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be real, vector-valued sequences. Note that we will mainly use two-sided sequences defined from $t = - \infty \ \mathrm { t o } \ t = + \infty$ . Define the inner product $\begin{array} { r } { \langle v , w \rangle : = \sum _ { t = - \infty } ^ { \infty } v _ { t } ^ { \top } w _ { t } } \end{array}$ . The set $\ell _ { 2 }$ is an inner product space with sequences v that satisfy $\langle v , v \rangle < \infty$ . The corresponding norm is $\| v \| _ { 2 } : = \sqrt { \langle v , v \rangle }$ . Finally, define the truncation operator $P _ { T }$ as a mapping from a sequence v to another sequence $w = P _ { T } v$ defined by:

$$
w _ {t} := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} v _ {t} & \text { if } t \leq T \\ 0 & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right.
$$

Next, consider a discrete-time, LTI system G with the following state-space model:

$$x _ {t + 1} = A x _ {t} + B d _ {t} \tag {1}e _ {t} = C x _ {t} + D d _ {t},$$
