# Safe Connectivity Maintenance of Underactuated Multi-Agent Networks in Dynamic Oceanic Environments

Nicolas Hoischen1,2,∗, Marius Wiggert2,∗, and Claire J. Tomlin2

Abstract— Autonomous multi-agent systems are increasingly being deployed in environments where winds and ocean currents have a significant influence. Recent work has developed control policies for single agents that leverage flows to achieve their objectives in dynamic environments. However, in multiagent systems, these flows can cause agents to collide or drift apart and lose direct inter-agent communications, especially when agents have low propulsion capabilities. To address these challenges, we propose a hierarchical multi-agent control approach that allows arbitrary single-agent performance policies that are unaware of other agents to be used in multi-agent systems while ensuring safe operation. We first develop a safety controller using potential functions, solely dedicated to avoiding collisions and maintaining inter-agent communication. Next, we design a low-interference safe interaction (LISIC) policy that trades off the performance policy and the safety control to ensure safe and performant operation. Specifically, when the agents are at an appropriate distance, LISIC prioritizes the performance policy while smoothly increasing the safety controller when necessary. We prove that under mild assumptions on the flows experienced by the agents, our approach can guarantee safety. Additionally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in realistic settings through an extensive empirical analysis with simulations of fleets of underactuated autonomous surface vehicles operating in dynamic ocean currents where these assumptions do not always hold.
