• Motivated by the success of rational neural networks in machine learning tasks, we propose novel rational activation functions to approximate the traditional sigmoid and tanh activation functions. We then show their effectiveness in analysing neural feedback loops that contain these rational activation functions.   
• We note that we could be falling short of the potential expressivity of the neural network by using fixed activation functions. Therefore we consider a general neural network structure which is built upon equations that are convex in the design parameters. We show that a neural network of this form can be expressed in a similar way to that of a feed forward neural network with rational activation functions.   
• We consider the Lyapunov stability criteria for constrained dynamics systems. We then propose a novel convex Sum of Squares procedure to recover a stabilising controller for a non-linear system through solving a Sum of Squares feasibility test.   
• This procedure is extended to the generalised rational neural network architecture, to recover a stabilising rational neural network in a convex way. We then adapt the rational neural network architecture to make it more compatible with Sum of Squares programming and allow the stabilising controller to be recovered.   
• We show for numerous examples that our proposed procedure and neural network architecture are able to effectively recover stabilising controllers for unstable systems with non-linear plants, noise and parametric uncertainty.
