In this article, we develop and use extended state observers to estimate disturbance force and disturbance torque vectors acting on a rotorcraft UAV. Extended state observers, along with disturbance observers and unknown input observers, are commonly used in association with the robust control technique known as active disturbance rejection control (ADRC), which can be traced back to the dissertation by Hartlieb (1956). In an ADRC scheme, estimates of unknown disturbance inputs from a disturbance observer (DO) or an extended state observer (ESO) are first obtained and then utilized in the control design to reject the disturbance. See, for example, Huang et al. (2001); Shao et al. (2018); Mechali et al. (2021); Cui et al. (2021) on application of ESO and Chen (2003); Liu et al. (2022); Bhale et al. (2022); Sanyal (2022) on application of DO in ADRC schemes. Jia et al. (2022) employ the disturbance model obtained by Faessler et al. (2017) and then estimate the drag coefficient as a parameter. This disturbance model is also employed by Moeini et al. (2021).

There are several methods to ensure the stability of ESO/DO designs used for rotorcraft tracking control. The linear ESO by Shao et al. (2018) is asymptotically stable (AS). Mechali et al. (2021) use the concept of geometric homogeneity Rosier (1992) to obtain an FTS ESO. A similar method is proposed in the ESO design by Guo and Zhao (2011). The Lyapunov functions/candidates used in the ESO stability analysis by Mechali et al. (2021) and Guo and Zhao (2011) are based on Rosier (1992), and are implicit. Jia et al. (2022), Moeini et al. (2021) and Liu et al. (2022) use variants of the DO proposed by Chen (2003). Another approach is to use the super-twisting algorithm (STA) Moreno and Osorio (2012) to design ESO. Xia et al. (2010) use this method in ESO design for spacecraft attitude control, and Cui et al. (2021) design an adaptive super-twisting ESO using a similar method for an ADRC scheme applied to rotorcraft UAV.
