Related Literature. In H-MAS, agents are organized into multiple levels of hierarchy, with higher-level agents having more authority and control over lower-level agents, designated as followers [9]. For instance, [10] solves path planning and ocean vehicle coordination separately with a leaderfollower structure. For distance-based control tasks, such as for the Safety Controller in Fig. 1, flocking techniques can maintain connectivity by influencing the agent’s behavior to follow the movement of their neighbors while avoiding collisions [11], [12]. Recent advancements in Model Predictive Control (MPC) have also achieved connectivity and collision-free operation within Multi-Agent-Systems (MAS) [13], [14] and successfully approached control of varyingtopology networks [15]. Nevertheless, a notable limitation of these approaches is their reliance on the assumptions of position invariance [13], fixed neighbor sets [14] and time invariance [13]–[15] of the flows, which do not apply in dynamic ocean environments. Thus far, the mentioned literature offers limited applicability to time-varying, uncertain flows predicted by forecasts. Since the agents are often underactuated, they cannot reliably compensate for disturbances. In this context, optimization-based approaches such as MPC frequently lead to increased computational complexity, convergence to local minima, and infeasibility with respect to the constraints. Hence, we opt for computationally efficient flocking approaches to achieve distancebased safety control, which are always feasible and, when coupled with effective single-agent planners [4], can be run at high update rates. While many flocking schemes only assume simple double integrator dynamics, adaptive flocking has also been applied to nonlinear dynamics [16]–[19]. However, due to the time-varying dynamics, adaptive approaches may not generalize well, especially given the diverse nature of currents.
