# 2.1. The ergodic mean-field game. Within the previous probabilistic setting, we now introduce the ergodic mean-field game (ergodic MFG for short) which will be the main object of our study.

We restrict to those $\xi \in { \mathcal { A } }$ belonging to

$$\mathcal {A} _ {e} := \left\{\xi \in \mathcal {A}: X _ {t} ^ {\xi} \in \mathcal {I} \forall t \geq 0 \text { a.s. }, \mathbb {E} [ | \xi | _ {T} ] < \infty \forall T < \infty , \operatorname * {l i m s u p} _ {T \uparrow \infty} \frac {1}{T} \mathbb {E} [ | X _ {T} ^ {\xi} | ] = 0 \right\}, \tag {2.7}$$

and, for $( x , i ) \in \mathcal { T } \times \mathbb { Y } = : \mathcal { O } , \xi \in \mathcal { A } _ { e }$ and $\theta \in \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ , we introduce the ergodic profit functional

$$J (x, i; \xi , \theta) := \operatorname * {l i m s u p} _ {T \uparrow \infty} \frac {1}{T} \mathbb {E} _ {(x, i)} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \pi (X _ {t} ^ {\xi}, \theta) d t - k _ {1} \xi_ {T} ^ {+} + k _ {2} \xi_ {T} ^ {-} \right], \tag {2.8}$$

where $0 < k _ { 2 } < k _ { 1 }$ . In (2.8), π is the instantaneous profit function satisfying Assumption 2.2 below, and $\theta$ is (for the moment) a fixed nonnegative number, which drives the mean-field interaction (cf. Definition 2.1 below). Notice that J is well defined for $\xi \in \mathcal { A } _ { e } ,$ , although potentially infinite.

We are now ready to provide the notion of stationary mean-field equilibrium. To that end, consider functions $F : \mathbb { R } _ { + } \to \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ and $f : \mathcal T \to \mathbb { R _ { + } }$ , and introduce the following notion of equilibrium.

Definition 2.1 (Ergodic MFG Equilibrium). For an initial condition $( x , i ) \in \mathcal { O }$ , a couple $( \xi ^ { * } ( \theta ^ { * } ) , \theta ^ { * } ) \in$ $\mathcal { A } _ { e } \times \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ is said to be an equilibrium of the ergodic MFG for the initial condition (x, i) if

(1) $J ( x , i ; \xi ^ { * } ( \theta ^ { * } ) , \theta ^ { * } ) \ge J ( x , i ; \xi , \theta ^ { * } )$ , for any $\xi \in \mathcal { A } _ { e }$ .   
(2) The optimally controlled state process $( X ^ { \xi ^ { * } ( \theta ^ { * } ) } , Y )$ admits a limiting stationary distribution $\mu ^ { \theta ^ { * } }$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \theta ^ { * } = F \big ( \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { d } \int _ { \mathbb { Z } } f ( x ) \mu ^ { \theta ^ { * } } ( d x , i ) \big ) } \end{array}$ .

In the sequel, our solution plan will be as following:
