When the agents are disconnected, which is sometimes unavoidable in underactuated settings where strong flows push them apart, we want them to be able to reconnect. Given the assumption of an emergency communication backup outlined in Section II-C, we incorporate a second term to restore connectivity among disconnected agents. To the best of our knowledge, this concept was introduced in [23]. While the augmented potential function in [23] uses a square function of distance to $R _ { c o m }$ for disconnected agents, we implement the second term in Eq. (6) as a square-root function. This is a design choice in the context of underactuated agents in a dynamic oceanic environment, where remote flock members can experience strong divergent flows and direct connectivity may be infeasible or undesirable to achieve. Thus, our approach yields a relatively low attraction force for agents beyond their communication range.

This results in our final potential function $\psi ( z ) : \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } $ $\mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ that is also visualized in Fig. 2:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \psi \left(\left\| \pmb {q} _ {i j} \right\| _ {2}\right) = \sigma_ {i j} \underbrace {\frac {\kappa R _ {c o m}}{\left\| \pmb {q} _ {i j} \right\| _ {2} \left(R _ {c o m} - \left\| \pmb {q} _ {i j} \right\| _ {2}\right)}} \\ + \left(1 - \sigma_ {i j}\right) \underbrace {\sqrt {\left(\left\| \boldsymbol {q} _ {i j} \right\| _ {2} - R _ {c o m} + \epsilon\right)}}. \\ \end{array}
$$

where $\sigma _ { i j }$ is an edge indicator similar to $a _ { i j }$ in Section II-B, but with a switching threshold $\epsilon > 0$ inducing a hysteresis when adding new edges, see Eq. (7). Hence, $\psi \left( \left| \left| \pmb { q } _ { i j } \right| \right| _ { 2 } \right)$ switches between two terms whether the pair of agents $( i , j )$ are within communication range $( \sigma _ { i j } = 1 )$ or disconnected $( \sigma _ { i j } = 0 )$ . Following the notation of [23], we define:
