It is important to emphasize that $K ^ { o }$ is non-causal. Hence the closed-loop (14) from d to eˆ has both casual and non-causal dynamics. The spectral factorization theorem does not state that eˆ can be computed causally. Rather, it states that the cost $\| \hat { e } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ can be equivalently computed as $\| F d \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ where F is stable and causal.

The result is a restatement of Lemma 5 which is stated and proved in Appendix B. The proof mostly follows from existing spectral factorization results that are reviewed in Appendix A. The one new aspect of Lemma 2 is to show that the spectral factor F can be constructed with state dimension $n _ { x }$ . This requires some additional technical arguments as $\hat { P }$ in (14) has state dimension $2 n _ { x }$ . An explicit state-space construction for the spectral factorization is given by Lemma 4 in Appendix A and Lemma 5 in Appendix B.

Lemma 2 assumes $\gamma _ { d } > 0$ . This assumption is not satisfied by competitive control which uses $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } ) = ( 0 , \gamma _ { C } )$ . In fact, a spectral factorization also exists in the case of competitive control (under a weaker set of assumptions). This requires additional technical details because $\gamma _ { d } = 0$ corresponds to a singular control problem $( \hat { R } = \hat { D } ^ { \top } \hat { D } = 0 )$ . These additional details are omitted.

We now show that the $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } )$ -regret feasibility problem can be reduced to an $H _ { \infty }$ feasibility problem. The regret in Definition 1 can be written as in (13): $J ( K , d ) < \| \hat { e } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ for all nonzero $d \in \ell _ { 2 }$ . The left side $J ( K , d )$ is equal to the closed-loop cost $\| e \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } = \| F _ { L } ( P , K ) d \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ achieved with controller K (Figure 1). The right side $\| \hat { e } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ is equal to $\| F d \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ by Lemma 2. The spectral factor F depends on the choice of $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } )$ and is stable with a stable inverse. Define $\hat { d } = F d$ so that $d = F ^ { - 1 } { \hat { d } } .$ The set of all $d \in \ell _ { 2 }$ maps 1-to-1 on the set of all $\hat { d } \in \ell _ { 2 }$ . Thus we can rewrite the regret bound as

$$\left\| F _ {L} (P, K) F ^ {- 1} \hat {d} \right\| _ {2} ^ {2} < \| \hat {d} \| _ {2} ^ {2} \forall \hat {d} \in \ell_ {2}, \hat {d} \neq 0. \tag {15}$$
