In much of the prior literature for rotorcraft UAV attitude control with ESO/DO for disturbance torque estimation and rejection in rotational dynamics, the attitude kinematics of the ESO/DO are either based on local linearization or represented using local coordinates (like Euler angles) or quaternions. Local coordinate representations can have singularity issues (e.g., gimbal lock with Euler angles), while quaternion representations may cause instability due to unwinding Bhat and Bernstein (2000b); Chaturvedi et al. (2011). In situations where the UAVs have to carry out aggressive maneuvers, as in rapid collision avoidance for example, disturbance estimation and rejection from such schemes may not be reliable or accurate enough for precise control of the UAV.

This article presents an ESO on SE(3) for rotorcraft UAVs to provide reliable disturbance estimation under complex and challenging aerodynamic environments. The ESO on SE(3) estimates the disturbance forces and torques during the flight of a UAV in both translational and rotational dimension. The proposed ESO is fast finite-time stable (FFTS), abbreviated as FFTS-ESO. This FFTS-ESO design is based on a novel H¨older-continuous fast finite-time stable differentiator (HC-FFTSD). We carry out several sets of numerical simulations to show the validity of the proposed FFTS-ESO. Moreover, the proposed FFTS-ESO is compared with other existing research to show its advantages in the conducted simulations. A set of experimental results implementing a disturbance rejection mechanism using feedback of disturbance estimates from the FFTS-ESO is also presented. In the experiment, we hover the UAV in front of the turbulent flows generated by a fan array wind tunnel (FAWT). We obtain statistical information from the hot-wire measurements on the turbulent incoming flows. We observe the pose of the UAV to evaluate its flight control performance.

We highlight some unique contributions of this article.
