# 1 Introduction

Neural networks (NNs) have shown to be highly effective in numerous machine learning tasks. Examples of these include but are not limited to: image recognition, weather prediction, natural language processing, autonomous vehicle technology, medical imaging and social media algorithms [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]. There have been numerous advancements that have contributed to their success such as the development of modern NN architectures [8, 9], the increase in computational power available [10, 11] and the availability of big data.

More recently, there has been an increased interest in using NNs in control systems. One reason for this is the emergence of the parallel field of reinforcement learning. By harnessing the power of NNs, deep reinforcement learning has been used to create a decision-making agent to greatly outperform humans in many complex tasks. Such examples include the board game Go [12] and the video game Dota 2 [13]. Despite their success, there are many significant issues with theses methods. These learnt policies can perform poorly when the learnt environment is different from the real environment [14, 15, 16, 17]. Additionally, bounds to quantify their safety do not sufficiently describe the performance of the algorithm and can be overly conservative [18]. However, with new advancements in robust control and the success of NNs in reinforcement learning, there is a strong motivation for work at their intersection.

We refer to control systems that contain NNs as controllers as neural feedback loops (NFLs). Most research completed in this area has addressed the robustness analysis of NFLs, where the NN’s parameters are given and the task is to quantify the system’s safety or robustness properties. However, the more challenging task is to obtain the NN controller’s parameters, whilst enforcing robustness guarantees. NNs are useful since they can be used as general function approximators [19, 20, 21, 22], but contain a large number of parameters. This means that optimising over all of the parameters is often computationally expensive.
