Our first contribution consists in studying the representative player’s optimal control problem and thus in providing, for the first time in the literature, the complete solution to a two-sided ergodic singular stochastic control problem with regime-switching (cf. Proposition 3.5 below). This is accomplished through the study of an auxiliary optimal stopping game, which is then tackled through probabilistic arguments similarly to Ferrari and Rodosthenous in [27] (where, however, the considered Dynkin game was related to a discounted singular stochastic control problem). To the best of our knowledge, connections between ergodic singular stochastic control problems and optimal stopping are still not well understood, contrary to the discounted or finite horizon case. Two exceptions are Karatzas [37] and Cao et al. [16] where one-dimensional ergodic singular stochastic control problems are addressed via optimal stopping (in [37] the underlying process is a Brownian motion). However, when the dimension of the state process is larger than one, as in our case, no result is available in the literature. Through a verification argument (see Propositions 3.4 and 3.5 below), we show that, for a given and fixed mean-field parameter θ, the optimal control is of barrier-type. That is, the optimal control uniquely solves a Skorokhod reflection problem (see e.g., Burdzy et al. [12]) at endogenously determined barriers (the free boundaries of the underlying optimal stopping game), which depend on the underlying Markov chain and on the given and fixed mean-field parameter θ. As a byproduct, we also show that the optimal upwards and downwards reflection policies satisfy a couple of functional equations resembling those in Theorem 2 of [37].
