[16] B.
Hassibi, A.
H.
Sayed, and T.
Kailath, Indefinite-Quadratic estimation and control: a unified approach to $H _ { 2 }$ and $H _ { \infty }$ theories.
SIAM, 1999.
[17] J.
Doyle, “Structured uncertainty in control system design,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 1985, pp.
260–265.
[18] J.
Doyle, K.
Lenz, and A.
Packard, “Design examples using µ-synthesis: Space shuttle lateral axis FCS during reentry,” in Modelling, Robustness and Sensitivity Reduction in Control Systems.
Springer, 1987.
[19] G.
Balas and J.
Doyle, “Control of lightly damped, flexible modes in the controller crossover region,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
17, no.
2, pp.
370–377, 1994.
[20] R.
Lind, G.
Balas, and A.
Packard, “Evaluating DK iteration for control design,” in Proceedings of American Control Conference, vol.
3.
IEEE, 1994, pp.
2792–2797.
[21] A.
Packard, J.
Doyle, and G.
Balas, “Linear, multivariable robust control with a µ perspective,” ASME Journal of Dynamic Systems, Measurement, and Control, vol.
115, no.
2B, pp.
426–438, 1993.
[22] A.
Packard, “Gain scheduling via linear fractional transformations,” Systems & control letters, vol.
22, no.
2, pp.
79–92, 1994.
[23] M.
A.
Dahleh and I.
J.
Diaz-Bobillo, Control of uncertain systems: a linear programming approach.
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1994.
[24] P.
A.
Iglesias and K.
Glover, “State-space approach to discrete-time, $H _ { \infty }$ control,” International Journal of Control, vol.
54, no.
5, pp.
1031–1073, 1991.
[25] D.
Limebeer, M.
Green, and D.
Walker, “Discrete-time $H _ { \infty }$ control,” in Proceedings of the 28th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control.
IEEE, 1989, pp.
392–396.
[26] A.
A.
Stoorvogel, The $H _ { \infty }$ control problem: a state space approach.
Citeseer, 1990.
[27] P.
Gahinet and P.
Apkarian, “A linear matrix inequality approach to $H _ { \infty }$ control,” International journal of robust and nonlinear control, vol.
4, no.
4, pp.
421–448, 1994.
[28] J.
Doyle, K.
Glover, P.
Khargonekar, and B.
Francis, “State-space solutions to standard $h _ { 2 }$ and $h _ { \infty }$ control problems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
34, no.
8, pp.
831–847, 1989.
[29] G.
Goel and B.
Hassibi, “Regret-optimal estimation and control,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.12097, 2021.
[30] M.
Green and D.
Limebeer, Linear Robust Control.
Courier Corporation, 2012.
[31] M.
