Our paper is placed within the recent bunch of literature dealing with MFGs with singular controls by following a probabilistic approach; see A¨ıd et al. [3], Cao and Guo [17], Cao et al. [16], Campi et al. [15], Cohen and Sun [22], Dianetti et al. [24], Fu [28], Fu and Horst [29], and Guo and Xu [32]. Amongst those, the works that most relate to ours are those by A¨ıd et al. [3] and by Cao et al. [16]. Cao et al. consider in [16] ergodic MFGs involving a one-dimensional singularly controlled It ˆo-diffusion. However, differently to us, the control in [16] can be exerted only upwards and no regime-switching process is considered therein. In our work, similarly to [3], we consider a stationary MFG involving a singularly controlled one-dimensional diffusion whose coefficients are modulated by a continuous-time Markov chain. However, differently to [3], here the control is two-sided, rather than only increasing, the performance criterion is of ergodic type, rather than of discounted type, the dynamics of the underlying state process are general, rather than geometric, and the Markov chain has $d \geq 2$ states, rather than only two regimes.

We also clearly relate to those works dealing with MFGs involving regime-switching regular control models. Wang and Zhang [52] consider social optima of mean-field linear-quadratic-Gaussian control models with Markov jump parameters, while distributed games for large-population multiagent systems with random time-varying parameters are investigated in [51]. Bensoussan et al. [9] focus on MFGs of risk-sensitive type with jump-diffusions and regime-switching. Furthermore, due to the application in networks with switching mechanism, mean-field control problems with regimeswitching became recently of particular interest: See, among others, Bayraktar et al. [8], Zhang et al. [54] and Nguyen et al. [45].

1.3. Organization of the paper. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the probabilistic setting and the MFG under study. Next, in Section 3, for a given and fixed mean-field parameter, we solve the ergodic stochastic control problem faced by the representative player. In Section 4 we then prove the existence and uniqueness of the mean-field equilibrium, while in Section 5 we provide the approximation result for a related N-player symmetric game. Finally, technical proofs are collected in Appendices A, B and C.
