Let $\theta ^ { * }$ be the unique MFG equilibrium as in Theorem 4.2 and $( \alpha ( \theta ^ { * } ) , \beta ( \theta ^ { * } ) ) = ( \alpha _ { i } ( \theta ^ { * } ) , \beta _ { i } ( \theta ^ { * } ) ) _ { i \in \mathbb { Y } }$ be the related boundary (see (3.7)). We now use the MFG equilibrium $\theta ^ { * }$ in order to construct profile strategies for the N -player games. For any $N \geq 1$ and $n = 1 , . . . , N$ , define the strategy $\bar { \xi } ^ { n }$ as the $( \alpha ( \theta ^ { * } ) , \beta ( \theta ^ { * } ) )$ )-barrier strategy for the noise $( W ^ { n } , Y ^ { n } )$ . In light of the definition of $\widehat { K }$ in (4.21), we have $\bar { \xi } ^ { n } \in \widehat { A } _ { b }$ . Let $\boldsymbol { \xi }$ be the related profile strategy; i.e., set $\bar { \pmb { \xi } } : = ( \bar { \xi } ^ { 1 } , . . . , \bar { \xi } ^ { N } )$ .

In the spirit of [16] and [17], we can now state the final and main result of this section.

Theorem 5.1. The profile strategy $\bar { \pmb { \xi } } : = ( \overline { { \xi } } ^ { 1 } , . . . , \overline { { \xi } } ^ { N } ) \in \widehat { \mathcal { A } } _ { b } ^ { N }$ is an $\epsilon _ { N }$ -Nash equilibrium for the ergodic N-player game, with $\epsilon _ { N }  0$ as $N \to \infty$ .

Proof. We first introduce some notation. Take barriers $( \alpha , \beta ) = ( \alpha _ { i } , \beta _ { i } ) _ { i \in \mathbb { Y } } \in \widehat { K } ^ { 2 d }$ , with $\widehat { K }$ as in (4.21). Denote by $( X ^ { n , \xi ^ { n } } , \xi ^ { n } )$ the solution to $\mathbf { S } \mathbf { P } ( \alpha , \beta , x , i )$ for the noise $( W ^ { n } , Y ^ { n } )$ of player $n ,$ and denote by $( { \tilde { X } } , { \tilde { \xi } } )$ the solution to $\mathbf { S P } ( \alpha , \beta , x , i )$ for the noise (W, Y ) of the MFG. Notice that the solution to $\mathbf { S P } ( \alpha , \beta , x , i )$ can be constructed by a Picard iteration (see Proposition B.1) and thus it is progressively measurable with respect to the noises. This implies that such a solution is unique in distribution, so that the processes $( X ^ { n , \xi ^ { n } } , \xi ^ { n } )$ and $( \tilde { X } ^ { n , \xi ^ { n } } , \tilde { \xi } ^ { n } )$ have the same law, and

$$J ^ {n} (\xi^ {n}, \theta^ {*}) := \limsup _ {T \uparrow \infty} \frac {1}{T} \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \pi (X _ {t} ^ {n, \xi^ {n}}, \theta^ {*}) d t - k _ {1} \xi_ {T} ^ {n, +} + k _ {2} \xi_ {T} ^ {n, -} \right] \tag {5.5}= \limsup _ {T \uparrow \infty} \frac {1}{T} \mathbb {E} \bigg [ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \pi (\tilde {X} _ {t} ^ {n, \xi^ {n}}, \theta^ {*}) d t - k _ {1} \tilde {\xi} _ {T} ^ {n, +} + k _ {2} \tilde {\xi} _ {T} ^ {n, -} \bigg ] =: J (\tilde {\xi}, \theta^ {*}).$$
