# 4.2 Refined Rational Neural Network Controller

The Lyapunov condition in Proposition 6 may result in numerical issues when solving the SOS program due to the structure of the constraints, making the rational NN controller difficult to recover. To overcome this issue, we enrich the

NN structure by considering a state feedback controller $u = \pi ( z ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ as a rational NN such that

$$y ^ {0} = z,x _ {i} ^ {k + 1} = \frac {\sum_ {j = 1} ^ {n _ {k}} p _ {i , j} ^ {k} (y ^ {k}) y _ {j} ^ {k}}{q _ {i} ^ {k} (z)}, \mathrm{for} i = 1, \ldots , n _ {k + 1}, k = 0, \ldots , \ell - 1,y _ {i} ^ {k + 1} = x _ {i} ^ {k + 1} + 1, \text { for } i = 1, \dots , n _ {k}, k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1, \tag {18}u _ {i} = \pi_ {i} (z) = \frac {\sum_ {j = 1} ^ {n _ {\ell}} p _ {i , j} ^ {\ell} (y ^ {\ell}) y _ {j} ^ {\ell}}{q _ {i} ^ {\ell} (z)} \Big (\sum_ {m = 1} ^ {n _ {z}} z _ {m} ^ {2} \Big), \text {for} i = 1, \ldots , n _ {z},$$

where $p _ { i , j } ^ { k } ( x ^ { k } ) , q _ { i } ^ { k } ( z )$ are the $j ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ polynomials that form the rational expression associated with the $i ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ node in the $( k + 1 ) ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ layer.

Each $x _ { j } ^ { k }$ node in the NN contains a rational activation function and each $y _ { j } ^ { k }$ node is equal to the $x _ { j } ^ { k }$ term with the addition of a bias term which we set to unity. The $y _ { j } ^ { k }$ term that appears in the numerator of the rational activation function is to ensure that all terms in the $x _ { i } ^ { k + 1 }$ node are a function of all of the nodes in the $k ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ layer and to impose more structure on the NN. The denominator $q _ { i } ^ { k } ( z )$ is a function of the system states to ensure that all nodes in the network are tied to the system states and not just the nodes in the previous layer. This will ensure that the SOS program does not set the coefficients in the $q _ { i } ^ { k } ( z )$ terms to very small values. The final layer contains a multiplier term which is a sum of all of the system states $\sum ^ { \bar { n } _ { z } } z _ { m } ^ { 2 }$ to ensure that the controller input goes to zero at the origin.

We can then adapt Proposition 6 for this modified rational NN structure, to obtain a controller that can be recoverable from the feasibility test.

Proposition 7. Consider the non-linear system

$$\dot {z} = f (z) + g (z) u,u = \pi (z),$$
