# 3.1 Rational Approximation of Tanh Activation Function

Despite their success in some machine learning applications, rational activation functions have yet to be applied to NN controllers. Most methods to train NNs in control systems use traditional activation functions such as ReLU, sigmoid and tanh. In addition, NNs that are used in control systems are often significantly smaller than those used for machine learning tasks such as image classification. The reason behind this is that methods to train NNs for control often require the use of an SDP, meaning that having a large number of parameters in the NN makes the problem become intractable. However, the requirement for the NN to only contain a small number of neurons to learn a function that can sufficiently control a system has not been well explored. One justification for this is the low number of input and output dimensions that are required for small NFLs. However, if the number of system states increases, then larger networks may be required, which may be intractable to obtain with current methods.

For NNs to be effectively used as controllers, it would be of interest to investigate the use of alternative NN structures and activation functions that may give a sufficient level of expressivity in the network, whilst being easier to compute or ensure robustness guarantees. Motivated by this we propose a novel activation function defined by a simple rational expression. We name this function ‘Rtanh’ as it is an approximation of the tanh activation function

$$\tanh (x) = \phi (x) = \frac {e ^ {x} - e ^ {- x}}{e ^ {x} + e ^ {- x}}$$

and is defined as

$$\operatorname{Rtanh} (x) = \phi (x) = \frac {4 x}{x ^ {2} + 4}.$$

This function is shown in Figure 2a against the tanh function and the error between these functions is shown in Figure 2b.

The tanh function can be over-approximated by sector constraints, as demonstrated in [29, 30, 31]. These constraints can then be used to analyse the NFL by creating an optimisation problem through an SDP or SOS programming. However, these bounds are very conservative as shown in Figure 1b. A big advantage of the ‘Rtanh’ function is that it can be represented by a single equality constraint such that

$$\phi (x) (x ^ {2} + 4) - 4 x = 0. \tag {11}$$
