# A. Experimental Set-Up

We study the effectiveness of different controllers in maneuvering a two-dimensional Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV), with a thrust angle θ as a control input. The actuation can be assumed holonomic of fixed thrust magnitude $\| u \| _ { 2 } =$ 0.1 m/s, as the vessel can turn to a desired θ within seconds while our sampling times are 10 minutes. We consider a group of identical $N = 3 0 \mathrm { \ A S V s }$ with omnidirectional communication capabilities, navigating in strong ocean currents $v ( q , t ) \in [ 0 . 3 , 2 ]$ m/s. Each single agent’s objective is to reach a target region common to all ASVs, which could be identified as an ideal seaweed growth region in the context of floating robotic farms [2]. Next, we detail the creation of an extensive set of missions to illustrate trade-offs between single-agent objectives and flock connectivity maintenance in a realistic ocean environment.

a) Realistic Simulation of Ocean Conditions: Inspired by [4], we focus on the Gulf of Mexico region (Fig. 3), as it presents challenging currents. Moreover, we employ two ocean current data sources, which we refer to as HYCOM hindcasts [28] and Copernicus hindcasts [29] that we use as forecasts for realistic scenarios. In our context, the ocean forecast data represents predicted currents $\hat { v } _ { F C }$ while the hindcast ocean data are true flows v. While the forecast error affects the optimality of the performance mt-HJR controllers, the advantage of our reactive safety controller design over predictive schemes [13], [14] is that it is not affected by the error on forecasted currents. We propose two settings to investigate our approach, namely (a) performance mt-HJR planning on hindcasts and simulation on hindcasts (HC-HC) and (b) performance mt-HJR planning on forecasts and simulation on hindcasts (FC-HC). The first allows us to assess performance in an idealized setting where true flows are known, while the second reflects a realistic application in dynamic ocean environments.
