The next step deals with the construction of the MFG equilibrium and with the proof of its uniqueness. To that end, we first show that the joint process constituted by the optimally controlled Markovmodulated diffusion process and the Markov chain admits a stationary distribution (cf. Proposition 4.2 below). As a matter of fact, we prove that its cumulative distribution function is the unique classical solution to a weakly-coupled system of ordinary differential equations (cf. Equation 4.10 below). This generalizes the result for a Markov-modulated Brownian motion obtained by D’Auria and Kella in Theorem 1 of [25]. Clearly, the stationary distribution and its cumulative distribution depend on the fixed mean-field parameter θ, since the optimally controlled state does. In order to proceed with the equilibrium analysis, we thus study the stability of the stationary distribution with respect to θ and actually prove its continuity with respect to such a parameter (cf. Theorem 4.1). Further exploiting the connection to the aforementioned Dynkin game of optimal stopping, we are then able to determine an invariant compact set where any equilibrium value of θ (if one exists) should lie. Combining those continuity and compactness results, an application of the Schauder-Tychonof fixed point theorem allows us to prove that there exists a unique stationary equilibrium (cf. Theorem 4.1).

The analysis of the considered stationary MFG is finally justified by the fact that its unique stationary mean-field equilibrium is able to realize an $\varepsilon _ { N }$ -Nash equilibrium for an N -player symmetric game with singular controls in which each player faces an ergodic net profit functional. It is worth noticing that in the N-player game the interaction comes through a suitable time-dependent average of the players’ states (see Eqs. 5.1 and 5.2 below), and it is therefore given in terms of the empirical distribution of players’ states at the current time.

1.2. Related literature. Ergodic singular stochastic control problems for one-dimensional diffusions have been treated in general settings, including state-dependent costs of actions, and with different applications, in [5], [42], [44] and [34], [39], among others. However, in all those papers, no regime switching is included.
