# ABSTRACT

Neural networks have shown great success in many machine learning related tasks, due to their ability to act as general function approximators. Recent work has demonstrated the effectiveness of neural networks in control systems (known as neural feedback loops), most notably by using a neural network as a controller. However, one of the big challenges of this approach is that neural networks have been shown to be sensitive to adversarial attacks. This means that, unless they are designed properly, they are not an ideal candidate for controllers due to issues with robustness and uncertainty, which are pivotal aspects of control systems. There has been initial work on robustness to both analyse and design dynamical systems with neural network controllers. However, one prominent issue with these methods is that they use existing neural network architectures tailored for traditional machine learning tasks. These structures may not be appropriate for neural network controllers and it is important to consider alternative architectures. This paper considers rational neural networks and presents novel rational activation functions, which can be used effectively in robustness problems for neural feedback loops. Rational activation functions are replaced by a general rational neural network structure, which is convex in the neural network’s parameters. A method is proposed to recover a stabilising controller from a Sum of Squares feasibility test. This approach is then applied to a refined rational neural network which is more compatible with Sum of Squares programming. Numerical examples show that this method can successfully recover stabilising rational neural network controllers for neural feedback loops with non-linear plants with noise and parametric uncertainty.
