for $\tilde { \theta } \in ( \theta , \theta + \epsilon )$ and a compact $\Theta ^ { * }$ such that $\theta + \epsilon \in \Theta ^ { * }$ for any $\theta \in \Theta$ . Thus, since $C _ { ( \mathcal { X } , \Theta ^ { * } ) } < \infty$ by Assumption 4.1-(2), we deduce that the map $\theta \mapsto v ( x , i ; \theta )$ is locally Lipschtiz continuous, proving Claim (1).

We next prove Claim (2). Using the representation of $v _ { x }$ in Lemma $\mathrm { A . 1 } .$ , Assumption $2 . 2 – ( 2 )$ and Assumption 4.1-(2), one can easily check (by observing that $\partial _ { x } \widehat { X } _ { t } ^ { x } > 0 , \widehat { \mathbb { P } } \otimes d t \mathbf { - a . s }$ ., since $\partial _ { x } \widehat { X } ^ { x }$ is a solution to a linear equation) that the function $v _ { x }$ is nonpositive for any $( x , i , \theta ) \in \mathcal { O } \times \mathbb { R } _ { + } .$ . For arbitrary fixed $\theta \in \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ and for any $( x , i ) \in { \mathcal { C } } ^ { \theta }$ we know that $\tau ^ { * } ( x , i ; \theta ) \wedge \sigma ^ { * } ( x , i ; \theta ) > 0 , \ \widehat { \mathbb { P } } \mathrm { - a . s . }$ , hence by representation of $v _ { x }$ (cf. Lemma A.1) we conclude that $v _ { x } ( x , i , ; \theta ) < 0$ . 

The next proposition establishes continuity of the free boundaries with respect to the parameter $\theta ,$ a result which will play an important role in the proof of Theorem 4.2 below, when applying the Schauder-Tychonoff fixed point theorem. The result is interesting per se since it proves continuity with respect to a parameter (not a state variable) of the free boundaries arising in a Dynkin game.

Proposition 4.1. The map $\theta \mapsto ( \alpha _ { i } ( \theta ) , \beta _ { i } ( \theta ) ) _ { i \in \mathbb { Y } }$ is continuous.

Proof. For fixed $i \in \mathbb { Y }$ we, first prove that the map $\theta \mapsto \alpha _ { i } ( \theta )$ is left-continuous. Fix $\theta \in \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ , a sequence $\{ \theta ^ { n } \} _ { n \in \mathbb { N } }$ , and a compact $\Theta \subset \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ such that $\theta ^ { n } \nearrow \theta .$ , and $\theta , \theta ^ { n } \in \Theta$ for any $n \in \mathbb N$ . Since the map $\theta \mapsto \alpha _ { i } ( \theta )$ is nonincreasing (cf. Lemma 4.1), arguing by contradiction, we assume that there exists $\delta > 0$ such that $\alpha _ { i } ( \theta ) + \delta \leq \alpha _ { i } ( \theta ^ { n } )$ for any $n \in \mathbb { N }$ . Observe that, since the function $\alpha _ { i }$ is finite and monotone (cf. Lemma 4.1), one has
