Let us interpret Eq. (12). The dynamics of the neighboring agents of i depend on their surrounding flows and respective individual control inputs, i.e. Ave $( \dot { \pmb q } _ { N i } ) = \mathrm { A v e } \left( v ( { \pmb q } _ { N i } ) \right) +$ $\mathrm { A v e } \left( { \pmb u } _ { N i } \right)$ . Despite strong flows, the agents do not necessarily need to be overactuated to meet a local energy decrease $\dot { H } _ { i } \leq 0$ . Eq. (12) can be fulfilled even if $\| v \left( \pmb { q } _ { i } \right) \| _ { 2 } > U _ { m a x , i } ,$ since $v \left( \pmb { q } _ { i } \right)$ can be compensated by $\operatorname { A v e } \left( v ( { \pmb q } _ { N i } ) \right)$ . In other words, agents in strong flows could still maintain connectivity and avoid collisions as long as the currents experienced by each agent and its neighbors are of similar direction and magnitude. The neighboring flocking control inputs average Ave $( { \pmb u } _ { N i } )$ also helps accounting for the current difference term $v \left( \pmb { q } _ { i } \right) - \mathrm { A v e } \left( v ( \pmb { q } _ { N i } ) \right)$ . Under these assumptions, we can show that $\dot { H } \leq 0$ , which allows to bound the maximum energy and apply LaSalle’s Invariance Principle [23], [27], thus ensuring that no collisions or disconnections happen, since $\psi ( \left. \mathbf { q } _ { i j } \right. _ { 2 } ) \to \infty$ when $\| \pmb { q } _ { i j } \| _ { 2 }  0 \mathrm { o r } \| \pmb { q } _ { i j } \| _ { 2 } ^ { - } $ $R _ { c o m }$ . However, for strong divergent flows between agents, it can happen that $\| v ( q _ { i } ) - \operatorname { A v e } v ( q _ { N i } ) \| _ { 2 } \gg U _ { m a x , i }$ due to the underactuated nature of the agents, which makes satisfaction of Eq. (12) challenging. Note that Eq. (12) is sufficient but not necessary to guarantee $\dot { H } < 0 ,$ as negative local energies can compensate for positive ones.
