# 1. Introduction

Rotorcraft unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are increasingly being used in various applications, such as security and monitoring, infrastructure inspection, agriculture, wildland management, package delivery, and remote sensing. However, these UAVs are frequently exposed to dynamic uncertainties and disturbances caused by turbulence induced by airflow around structures or regions. Therefore, it is crucial to ensure robust flight control performance in such challenging environments, with guaranteed stability margins even in the presence of dynamic disturbances and uncertainties.

Recent research articles on rotorcraft UAV tracking control have used various methods to tackle the adverse effects of disturbances and uncertainties during the flight. Torrente et al. (2021) use Gaussian processes to complement the nominal dynamics of the multi-rotor in a model predictive control (MPC) pipeline. Hanover et al. (2021) use an explicit scheme to discretize the dynamics for a nonlinear MPC solved by optimization. Bangura and Mahony (2017) use the propeller aerodynamics as a direct feedforward term on the desired thrust to re-regulate the thrust command of the rotors. Craig et al. (2020) implement a set of pitot tubes onto the multi-rotor aircraft to directly sense the aircraft’s airspeed. With the knowledge of propeller aerodynamic characteristics, the airspeed is then utilized to obtain the disturbance forces and torques as feedforward terms to enhance control performance. Bisheban and Lee (2020) use artificial neural networks to obtain disturbance forces and torques with the kinematics information of the aircraft and then use the baseline control scheme based on the article by Lee et al. (2010) in their tracking control scheme design. The methods used in these research articles either need high computational efforts Torrente et al. (2021); Hanover et al. (2021); Bisheban and Lee (2020) or require precise modeling of the aerodynamic characteristics of the rotorcraft propellers Bangura and Mahony (2017); Craig et al. (2020), to obtain satisfactory control performance against disturbances.
