# 3. Results

The evaluation results for the proposed methodology are presented in this section. Conventional therapy, which involves a once-daily injection of basal insulin at a dosage of 0.4 U/kg of body weight, and predefined insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios for the bolus dosage, as defined in the metabolic model [5], is compared to the performance of the multi-agent basal-bolus advisor.

The evaluation is conducted for all three scenarios described in Section 2.1, and the obtained results are presented in Table 1.

To assess the performance of the proposed methodology, a closed-loop system is implemented containing the BG simulator and the pre-trained multi-agent SAC-RL model acting as the basal-bolus advisor. The test simulation protocol spans a duration of 14 days, starting from Day 0 at 7:00 a.m. The performance of the RL agents is evaluated during the second week, specifically from day 8 to day 14. The initial conditions for the simulations include a glucose level of 125 mg/dL, no insulin present in the plasma or subcutaneous depot, and a reference basal glucose concentration of 125 mg/dL.

Table 1 presents the weekly minimum, maximum, and mean glucose levels in mg/dL. Additionally, the percentage of time during the simulation that the BG value fell within five different ranges was investigated. These ranges include severe hypoglycemia (BG  54 mg/dL), hypoglycemia $\mathrm { ( B G \ < \ 7 0 }$ <mg/dL), euglycemia (70-180 mg/dL), hyperglycemia $\mathrm { ( B G > }$ 180 mg/dL), and severe hyperglycemia (BG  250 mg/dL).

>Furthermore, the average daily bolus and basal insulin dosages in U were calculated for each patient. The population mean ± standard deviation was then computed and is presented in Table 1. To assess the statistical significance of the difference between the performance of the RL agents and conventional therapy, paired t-tests were conducted at a significance level of 5%.

With the basal RL agent, the main objective was to maintain a safe baseline for all the patients in all scenarios to avoid hyper- or hypoglycemia while for the bolus RL agent, the primary objective was to reduce glucose variability and enhance the proportion of time glucose levels maintained within the target range of 70-180 [mg/dL].
