where C is as defined by (44), which gives the set of the critical points of the Morse function used as part of the Morse-Lyapunov function in (68). Using Theorem 8.4 from Khalil (2002), we conclude that $( E _ { R } , e _ { \Omega } , e _ { \tau } )$ converge to the set:

$$S = \left\{\left(E _ {R}, e _ {\Omega}, e _ {\tau}\right) \in \mathrm{SO} (3) \times \mathbb {R} ^ {3} \times \mathbb {R} ^ {3}: E _ {R} \in C, e _ {\Omega} = 0, \text {and} e _ {\tau} = 0 \right\}, \tag {77}$$

in finite time. Based on (74), and Lemma 2, we conclude that when the observer gains satisfy the constraints in Proposition 2, the error dynamics (65) converges to the set S in finite time.

In S, the only stable equilibrium is (I, 0, 0), while the other three are unstable. The resulting closed-loop system with the estimation errors gives rise to a H¨older-continuous feedback with exponent less than one $( 1 / 2 < 1 / p < 1 )$ , while in the limiting case of $p = 1$ , the feedback system is Lipschitz-continuous. Proceeding with a topological equivalence-based analysis similar to the one by Bohn and Sanyal (2016), we conclude that the equilibrium and the corresponding regions of attraction of the rotational ESO with $p \in ] 1 , 2 |$ [ are identical to those of the corresponding Lipschitzcontinuous asymptotically stable ESO with $p = 1$ , and the region of attraction is almost global.

To summarize, we conclude that the error dynamics (51) is almost globally FFTS (AG-FFTS) at the origin $( ( E _ { R } , e _ { \Omega } , e _ { \tau } ) = ( I , 0 , 0 ) )$ when the resultant disturbance torque is constant $( \dot { \tau } _ { D } = 0 )$ and the observer gains are constrained according to Proposition 2. This concludes the proof of Theorem 3.

Remark 2 (Disturbance robustness of the ESO). Consider Corollary 1 and its constraints on differentiator gains. When the disturbance forces and torques are time-varying, then $\| \dot { \varphi } _ { D } \| , \| \dot { \tau } _ { D } \| >$ 0. Further, if the constraints on gains in Corollary 1 are fulfilled, the estimation error dynamics of the proposed ESO will be PFTS.
