# 3. H¨older-Continuous Fast Finite-Time Stable Differentiator (HC-FFTSD)

In this section, we design the error dynamics for the proposed ESO in Section 5 in the form of an HC-FFTSD. We analyze the stability and robustness of the proposed HC-FFTSD in this section, to support the development of the ESO design in Section 5. Theorem 1 gives the proposed HC-FFTSD with its stability properties. Corollary 1 describes the convergence performance of the differentiator under external disturbances. Corollary 2 describes the convergence performance of the differentiator under measurement noise. In the analysis that follows, $e _ { 1 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ stands for the measurement estimation error and $e _ { 2 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ stands for the disturbance estimation error in the ESO error dynamics, respectively. In this section and the remainder of this paper, we denote the minimum and maximum eigenvalues of a matrix by $\lambda _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ( \cdot )$ and $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( \cdot )$ , respectively.

Theorem 1. Let $p \in ] 1 , 2 [$ and $k _ { 3 } > 0$ . Define $\phi _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\phi _ { 2 } ( \cdot ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \phi_ {1} (e _ {1}) = k _ {3} e _ {1} + (e _ {1} ^ {\mathrm{T}} e _ {1}) ^ {\frac {1 - p}{3 p - 2}} e _ {1}, \\ \phi_ {2} (e _ {1}) = k _ {3} ^ {2} e _ {1} + \frac {2 k _ {3} (2 p - 1)}{3 p - 2} (e _ {1} ^ {\mathrm{T}} e _ {1}) ^ {\frac {1 - p}{3 p - 2}} e _ {1} + \frac {p}{3 p - 2} (e _ {1} ^ {\mathrm{T}} e _ {1}) ^ {\frac {2 (1 - p)}{3 p - 2}} e _ {1}. \tag {10} \\ \end{array}
$$

Define the differentiator gains $k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 } > 0$ and $\mathcal { A } ^ { \ast } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 \times 2 }$ , as:

$$
\mathcal {A} ^ {*} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} - k _ {1} & 1 \\ - k _ {2} & 0 \end{array} \right], \tag {11}
$$

which makes A∗ a Hurwitz matrix. Thereafter, the differentiator design:

$$
\begin{array}{l} {\dot {e} _ {1}} {= - k _ {1} \phi_ {1} (e _ {1}) + e _ {2},} \\ \dot {e} _ {2} = - k _ {2} \phi_ {2} (e _ {1}), \\ \end{array}
$$

ensures that $( e _ { 1 } ^ { \mathrm { T } } , e _ { 2 } ^ { \mathrm { T } } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ converges to the origin in a fast finite-time stable manner.

Proof. The proof of Theorem 1 is based on Theorem 1 by Vidal et al. (2016), and Theorem 1 by Moreno and Osorio (2012). Two properties of $\phi _ { 1 }$ and ϕ2 are provided as follows.

Property $\textit { 1 } ( P 1 )$ : The Jacobian $o f \phi _ { 1 } ( e _ { 1 } )$ , denoted $\phi _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } ( e _ { 1 } )$ , is given as follows:
