# 2.1 Sum of Squares Programming and The Positivstellensatz

In this section we outline how to formulate and solve SOS optimisation problems by solving an equivalent Semidefinite Program (SDP). For more details on SOS programming the reader is referred to [33, 34, 35, 36].

The fundamental idea behind SOS is to replace a polynomial positivity condition with a condition that enforces that the polynomial is a Sum of Squares.

Definition 1. A polynomial p(x) is said to be a Sum of Squares (SOS) polynomial if it can be expressed as

$$p (x) = \sum_ {i = 1} r _ {i} ^ {2} (x),$$

where $r _ { i } ( x ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R } [ x ]$ . We denote the set of polynomials that admit this decomposition by $\Sigma [ x ]$ and say $\cdot _ { p ( x ) }$ is SOS’. Note that $\mathbb { R } [ x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } ]$ ] is defined as the set of polynomials in $x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n }$ with real coefficients and we denote $x = \left( x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } \right) f o r$ simplicity.

Definition 2. A monomial in $x = ( x _ { 1 } , \ldots x _ { n } )$ is

$$x ^ {\beta} = x _ {1} ^ {\beta_ {1}} x _ {2} ^ {\beta_ {2}} \dots x _ {n} ^ {\beta_ {n}},$$

where the exponent and degree are denoted as $\beta = ( \beta _ { 1 } , \ldots , \beta _ { n } ) \in \mathbb { N } ^ { n }$ and $| \beta | = \beta _ { 1 } + \cdots + \beta _ { n }$ respectively.

The column vector of monomials with only certain exponents is expressed as $x ^ { \mathbb { B } } = ( x ^ { \beta } ) _ { \beta \in \mathbb { B } }$ , where $\mathbb { B } \subset \mathbb { N } ^ { n }$ is the set of exponents that are used in the monomials. The summation operation on B is defined as

$$\mathbb {B} + \mathbb {B} := \{\beta + \gamma : \beta , \gamma \in \mathbb {B} \}.$$

A polynomial $p ( x )$ can be written as a linear combination of a set of monomials $x ^ { \mathbb { B } }$ for a set of coefficients $p _ { \beta } \in$ R such that

$$p = \sum_ {\beta \in \mathbb {N} _ {d} ^ {n}} p _ {\beta} x ^ {\beta},$$

where $\mathbb { N } _ { d } ^ { n } = \{ \beta \in \mathbb { N } ^ { n } : | \beta | \leq d \}$ is the set of all n-variate exponents of degree d or less.

Theorem 1. A polynomial $p ( x )$ is SOS if and only if it can be written in what is referred to as a Gram matrix representation such that

$$p (x) = \left(x ^ {\mathbb {B}}\right) ^ {T} Q x ^ {\mathbb {B}},$$

where $Q \in \mathbb { S } _ { + } ^ { | \mathbb { B } | }$ | is a positive semidefinite matrix.

The Gram matrix representation can be rewritten as
