# 6. Numerical Simulations

In this section, we compare the proposed FFTS-ESO with existing disturbance estimation schemes, which are LESO by Shao et al. (2018) and FxTSDO by Liu et al. (2022), on their disturbance estimation performance in four different simulated flight scenarios, with and without the presence of measurement noises. The four flight scenarios correspond to four desired trajectories. The inertia and mass of the simulated rotorcraft UAV are $J = \mathrm { d i a g } ( [ 0 . 0 8 2 0 , 0 . 0 8 4 5 , 0 . 1 3 7 7 ] )$ kg · $\begin{array} { l l l } { \mathrm { m } ^ { 2 } , } & { m = 4 . 3 4 } \end{array}$ kg by Pounds et al. (2010). Since the goal of the simulation is to validate and compare the disturbance estimation performance, the actuator dynamics and saturation are not included in the results reported in this section. The tracking control scheme to drive the UAV to track the desired trajectories is developed based on the control scheme reported by Viswanathan et al. (2017, 2018). As this scheme is not a contribution of this article, we omit its description for brevity. We use MATLAB/Simulink with its ODE2 (Heun method) solver to conduct this set of simulations. The time step size is $h = 0 . 0 0 1$ 1s and the simulated duration is $T = 3 0 { \mathrm { s } }$ .

<table><tr><td>Hovering</td><td> $b_{d}(t) = [0, 0, -3]^{\mathrm{T}} (\mathrm{m})$ </td></tr><tr><td>Slow Swing</td><td> $b_{d}(t) = [10 \sin(0.1\pi t), 0, -3]^{\mathrm{T}} (\mathrm{m})$ </td></tr><tr><td>Fast Swing</td><td> $b_{d}(t) = [5 \sin(0.5\pi t), 0, -3]^{\mathrm{T}} (\mathrm{m})$ </td></tr><tr><td>High Pitch</td><td> $b_{d}(t) = [10 \sin(0.5\pi t), 10 \cos(0.5\pi t), -3]^{\mathrm{T}} (\mathrm{m})$ </td></tr></table>

Table 1: Flight trajectories to be tracked for the comparisons between LESO, FxTSDO and FFTS-ESO

<table><tr><td> $b_{\text{N}}$ </td><td> $b_{\text{N}} = b + \mu_b$ </td><td> $\mu_b \sim P_b = 3e^{-8}$ </td></tr><tr><td> $v_{\text{N}}$ </td><td> $v_{\text{N}} = v + \mu_v$ </td><td> $\mu_v \sim P_v = 3e^{-7}$ </td></tr><tr><td> $R_{\text{N}}$ </td><td> $R_{\text{N}} = R\exp(\mu_R)$ </td><td> $\mu_R \sim P_R = 3e^{-8}$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\Omega_{\text{N}}$ </td><td> $\Omega_{\text{N}} = \Omega + \mu_\Omega$ </td><td> $\mu_\Omega \sim P_\Omega = 3e^{-7}$ </td></tr></table>

Table 2: Measurement noise level in power spectral density for the comparisons between LESO, FxTSDO, and FFTS-ESO
