• The proposed ESO is the major contribution of this article.
The pose of the rotorcraft is represented directly on the Lie group of rigid body transformations, the special Euclidean group SE(3).
Unlike the ESO and DO designs reported by Mechali et al.
(2021), Shao et al.
(2018), and Cui et al.
(2021), which use Euler angles or quaternions for attitude representation or do not include attitude kinematics, like the DO by Bhale et al.
(2022) in disturbance torque estimation, the pose of the aircraft in this article is represented in SE(3)to avoid kinematic singularities.
We do not use local coordinates (like Euler angles) or (dual) quaternions for pose representation so that we avoid singularities due to local coordinate representations or quaternion unwinding, as reported by Bhat and Bernstein (2000b), and Chaturvedi et al.
(2011).
To the best of the author’s knowledge, there is no existing publication on aircraft disturbance observation using ESO with pose representation on SE(3).
• The proposed FFTS-ESO is based on the HC-FFTSD.
The commonly used geometric homogeneity method Rosier (1992);
Guo and Zhao (2011);
Liu et al.
(2019);
Wang and Sanyal (2021, 2022), cannot provide a straightforward (or explicit) Lyapunov function to prove the finite-time stability of the scheme.
The (implicit) form of their Lyapunov functions is by Rosier (1992).
This implicit Lyapunov function complicates the robustness analysis under measurement noise and time-varying disturbances when that analysis is essential for an ESO designed for disturbance estimation in ADRC schemes.
We propose HC-FFTSD as an approach inspired by the STA Moreno and Osorio (2012);
Vidal et al.
(2016) of sliding-mode control (SMC).
This approach gives a straightforward design of a strict Lyapunov function, which is explicit, and therefore avoids the weakness mentioned above.
• Based on the HC-FFTSD, the proposed FFTS-ESO schemes are both FFTS and H¨oldercontinuous, unlike the common STA and other FTS schemes that use discontinuous methods like terminal sliding-mode.
Therefore, the proposed FFTS-ESO avoids the potentially harmful chattering phenomenon Sanyal and Bohn (2015), while maintaining FTS convergence.
• With explicit Lyapunov function in the stability analysis, we present proof of the robustness of the proposed FFTS-ESO under time-varying disturbing forces, torques, and measurement noise.
