# D. Evaluation Metrics

Due to the underactuated nature of the agents, it is impossible to guarantee network connectivity or collision avoidance in some scenarios. Hence, we define evaluation metrics to assess the safety of our control schema with respect to Eq. (2c) and (2b). A collision happens between any of the agents in the swarm $\mathrm { i f ~ } \exists t \in [ 0 , T ]$ at which Eq. (2b) is violated. We denote this with the collision indicator $\mathbb { I } _ { c o l l } ~ \in ~ \{ 0 , 1 \}$ . To measure various aspects of losing connectivity, we use three metrics. First, for a binary measure, if disconnections occur, we define the disconnection indicator $\mathbb { I } _ { d i s c o n n } \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ which is 1 $\mathrm { i f } \exists t \in [ 0 , T ]$ at which Eq. (2c) is violated and zero otherwise. Additionally, we measure the minimum Fiedler value over time; the higher, the more robust the communication network (Section II-B):

$$\lambda_ {2} ^ {\text { min }} = \min _ {t \in [ 0, T ]} \lambda_ {2} (L (G (\boldsymbol {\xi} (t), R _ {c o m})) \tag {3}$$

Lastly, as single-agent backup communication is costly, it matters how long an agent is isolated from all other agents. Therefore, we are introducing a new measure called Isolated Platform Metric (IPM).

$$\mathrm{IPM} = \frac {1}{T} \int_ {t = 0} ^ {T} M (d e g (i, t) = 0) d t \tag {4}$$

where $M ( d e g ( i , t ) = 0 )$ counts the number of disconnected vertices, which corresponds to the number of zeros in the diagonal of the graph degree matrix ${ \cal D } ( G ( \pmb { \xi } ( t ) , R _ { c o m } )$ (Section II-B).

In Section ${ \mathrm { v } } ,$ we compare different controllers empirically over a large, representative set of missions M by evaluating the collision rate $\mathbb { E } _ { \pmb { q } ( t _ { 0 } ) , t _ { 0 } \sim \mathbb { M } } \left[ \mathbb { I } _ { c o l l } \right]$ , the disconnection rate $\mathbb { E } _ { \pmb { q } ( t _ { 0 } ) , t _ { 0 } \sim \mathbb { M } } \left[ \mathbb { I } _ { d i s c o n n } \right]$ , as well as the distributions of IPM and $\lambda _ { 2 } ^ { m i n }$ . In our setting where the performance objectives $\mathbb { P } _ { i }$ are minimum time-to-target for each agent i, the connectivity constraint often leads to a trade-off with the performance objective. Hence, we also quantify the degradation of the performance controller by quantifying the minimum distance the swarm center got to the target area $\tau$ over the mission time $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ as $d _ { m i n } ( \tau )$ .
