# 3.4 General Rational Neural Networks

The rational approximations of the tanh and sigmoid functions proposed in Section 3 can be used as activation functions in an NN. However, if we were to use these structures we could be missing the potential expressivity that can be obtained from a general class of rational functions. As in (10), rational activation functions can contain training parameters. Therefore, instead of considering a rigid structure for the activation function and fixing the parameters, we can consider a general rational expression that contains the NN parameters.

If we were to consider a feed-forward fully connected NN with predefined rational activation functions, then the NN can be written as

$$x ^ {0} = u,v ^ {k} = W ^ {k} x ^ {k} + b ^ {k}, \text { for } k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1,x ^ {k + 1} = \frac {p (v ^ {k})}{q (v ^ {k})}, \text { for } k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1, \tag {13}\pi (u) = W ^ {\ell} x ^ {\ell} + b ^ {\ell},$$

where $p ( v ^ { k } )$ and $q ( v ^ { k } )$ are polynomial functions with specified coefficients. However, if we substitute the preactivation value $v _ { j } ^ { k }$ into the polynomial expressions, we obtain a rational expression in $x _ { j } ^ { k }$ , where the coefficients are parameterised by the values of the weight matrices $W ^ { k }$ and biases vector $b ^ { k }$ . Any coefficients in the rational activation function will be multiplied by the weights and bias terms. Therefore, we can instead consider an NN with no affine transformation and parameters only in the rational activation function. We can then write the rational NN as

$$x ^ {0} = u,x _ {i} ^ {k + 1} = \frac {p _ {i} (x ^ {k})}{q _ {i} (x ^ {k})}, \text { for } i = 0, \dots , n _ {k}, \text { for } k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1, \tag {14}\pi_ {i} (u) = \frac {p _ {i} (x ^ {\ell})}{q _ {i} (x ^ {\ell})}, \text { for } i = 0, \ldots , n _ {\ell},$$

where $p _ { i } ( x ^ { k } )$ and $q _ { i } ( x ^ { k } )$ are general polynomial functions which can be written as

$$p _ {i} (x) = \sum_ {\alpha \in \mathbb {N} _ {d _ {p _ {i}}} ^ {n}} \lambda_ {\alpha} x ^ {\alpha},q _ {i} (x) = \sum_ {\beta \in \mathbb {N} _ {d _ {q _ {i}}} ^ {n}} \gamma_ {\beta} x ^ {\beta},$$

where $d _ { q _ { i } } = \deg ( q _ { i } ) , d _ { p _ { i } } = \deg ( p _ { i } )$ , α and $\beta$ are the exponents that are defined in Section 2.1 and $\lambda _ { \alpha }$ and $\gamma _ { \beta }$ are the coefficients of $p _ { i } ( x )$ and $q _ { i } ( x )$ respectively. To show the similarity between (13) and (14) we present the following simple example.
