Proof. By Theorem 3, a controller K achieves robust $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } )$ -regret relative to $K ^ { o }$ if and only if $F _ { U } ( M , \Delta )$ is well-posed, stable and $\| F _ { U } ( M , \Delta ) \| _ { \infty } < 1$ for all $\Delta \in \Delta$ . It follows from Lemma 7 in Appendix C that $F _ { U } ( M , \Delta )$ satisfies these conditions for all $\Delta \in \Delta$ if and only if (i) M is stable, and (ii) there exists D satisfying (23). □

The robust $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } ) \mathrm { - r e g r e t }$ feasibility problem requires the construction of a controller K and scaling D that satisfy (23) (where the dependence of M on K has been suppressed). Unfortunately (23) is, in general, a non-convex constraint on $( D , K )$ . A common, pragmatic approach is to perform a coordinate-wise search known as DK-iteration or $\mu { - } \mathbf { S } \mathbf { y }$ nthesis [17], [18], [19], [20], [21]. The D scaling is restricted to be a SISO, LTI, stable system with $D ^ { - 1 }$ stable. In this case, Equation 23 can be written explicitly in terms of $( P , K , F ^ { - 1 } , D )$ as follows:

$$
\left\| \left[ \begin{array}{c c} D \cdot I _ {n v} & 0 \\ 0 & I _ {n e} \end{array} \right] F _ {L} (P, K) \left[ \begin{array}{c c} D ^ {- 1} \cdot I _ {n w} & 0 \\ 0 & F ^ {- 1} \end{array} \right] \right\| _ {\infty} <   1. \tag {24}
$$

The DK-iteration corresponds to alternately minimizing the $H _ { \infty }$ norm in (24) over K with D held fixed and vice versa. The K-step can be solved as a standard $H _ { \infty }$ synthesis problem. The D-step requires additional details [17], [18], [19], [20], [21] but efficient algorithms exist to compute sub-optimal scalings. The algorithm is terminated if the $H _ { \infty }$ norm goes below 1. If the algorithm terminates for this reason then we have a controller that achieves the robust regret bound. Finally, note that Theorem 4 gives a necessary and sufficient condition to achieve robust $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } )$ -regret. However, the DK-iteration need not find the globally optimal pair $( D , K )$ . Hence, successful termination of this algorithm is only sufficient for achieving robust regret.
