2) MPC perching adjustment: At the end of the trajectory tracking step, the quadrotor is parallel to the perching surface but is not ready to perch yet. On one hand, there are tracking errors, especially in Case (a) and Case (b) which have aggressive trajectories. The quadrotor position may not be ideal for perching. On the other hand, since the thrust points toward the plane in both Case (a) and Case (b), there may be significant velocity in the plane’s +z direction, making a deceleration procedure necessary. Therefore, we set up the MPC perching adjustment to actively guide the quadrotor closing the surface for these two cases.

In this control section, the state vector comprises the quadrotor position with respect to the plane center, $d _ { z } , d _ { y } ,$ , and $d _ { x }$ as shown in Fig. 4, and the relative velocity $v _ { z } , v _ { y }$ and $v _ { x }$ :

$$
\mathbf {x} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l l l l} d _ {z} & v _ {z} & d _ {y} & v _ {y} & d _ {x} & v _ {x} \end{array} \right] ^ {T}. \tag {1}
$$

The control input consists of the thrust acceleration $a _ { T }$ , the relative roll angle $\phi ,$ and pitch angle θ (also indicated in Fig. 4):

$$
\mathbf {u} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l} \cos \theta \cos \phi & a _ {T} & \sin \phi \cos \theta a _ {T} \\ & & - \sin \theta & a _ {T} \end{array} \right] ^ {T}. \tag {2}
$$

With the gravitational acceleration g and the incline angle of the plane α, this model is written as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {v} _ {z} = \cos \theta \cos \phi a _ {T} - g \cos (\alpha) \\ \dot {v} _ {y} = \sin \phi \cos \theta a _ {T} + g \sin (\alpha) \\ \dot {v} _ {x} = - \sin \theta a _ {T} \end{array} . \right. \tag {3}
$$

We consider that there are total n computational cycles in this adjustment period and the cycle interval is ∆t seconds. The total time of the adjustment period is $n \Delta t$ seconds. After discretization, we have

$$\mathbf {x} (k + 1) = \boldsymbol {A} \mathbf {x} (k) + \boldsymbol {B} \mathbf {u} (k) + \boldsymbol {d}, \quad k \in \mathbb {N}, \tag {4}$$

where $\pmb { A } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 \times 6 } , \pmb { B } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 \times 3 } , \pmb { d } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 \times 1 }$ can be computed from (3).

The last state that is predicted from the k cycle can be represented as

$$\mathbf {x} (n | k) = \boldsymbol {A} ^ {n - k} \mathbf {x} (k) + \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {n - k - 1} \boldsymbol {A} ^ {n - k - 1 - j} (\boldsymbol {B u} (k + j | k) + \boldsymbol {d}). \tag {5}$$

We define that
