# 2.3. Reward Function

The main goal of this closed-loop model is to increase the time in range (TIR) by reducing the occurrence of hypoglycemia $\mathrm { ( B G < 7 0 ~ m g / d L ) }$ and hyperglycemia $\mathrm { ( B G > 1 8 0 }$ < >mg/dL). To achieve this, we have defined two distinct reward functions for each agent.

In the BG simulator, blood glucose (BG) readings are taken at fixed 1-minute intervals. However, to develop a model suitable for MDI therapy, the general idea regarding the timing of the actions taken by each patient, is that the bolus RL agent only takes action when a meal is consumed, while the basal agent takes action once a day at 7:00 AM. We have set the sampling rate to 15 minutes for the bolus agent and 1 day for the basal agent, and have designed separate reward functions for each agent to guide their learning process.

The reward function for the basal agent was designed to evaluate the BG level during the first 7 hours of the day (12:00 AM to 7:00 AM). Three distinct rewards, denoted as $\dot { \boldsymbol { r } } ^ { ( 1 0 5 , 1 1 5 ) }$ , $r ^ { ( 1 0 0 , 1 2 0 ) }$ , and $r ^ { ( 7 0 , 1 8 0 ) }$ , were computed based on the number of occurrences that the measured BG level fell within specific ranges: (105, 115) mg/dL, (100, 120) mg/dL, and (70, 180) mg/dL, respectively. To determine the final reward for each action taken per each episode, which corresponds to a one-week duration, the following equation was employed:

$$r _ {\text { Basal }} ^ {\text { episode }} = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \exp \left(\frac {r (i) ^ {(1 0 5 , 1 1 5)}}{2}\right) + \exp \left(\frac {r (i) ^ {(1 0 0 , 1 2 0)}}{2}\right) + \exp \left(\frac {r (i) ^ {(7 0 , 1 8 0)}}{2}\right) \tag {4}$$

where, repisodBasal $r _ { B a s a l } ^ { e p i s o d e }$ represents the total reward for the action taken by the basal agent on each episode which is obtained by summing all the daily rewards from day 1 to day N in each episode.

This reward function captures the maximum duration during the fasting period in which the BG level remains within the target range. This period is of particular significance as it serves as the baseline for individuals with T1D. The reward is determined based on the agent’s actions and reflects its ability to effectively maintain the BG level within the desired range during this fasting period. Algorithm 1 provides the pseudocode for the reward function outlined above.
