Active control of AMB systems has been extensively studied in the literature. Robust linear control approaches such as $H _ { \infty }$ loop shaping were investigated for disturbance rejection (Schroder et al., 1997) and in combination with closed-loop identification (Junfeng et al., 2011). $H _ { \infty }$ control of uncertain AMB systems was studied in (Lee et al., 2013) using a linear parameter-varying systems framework, while the authors in (Fittro and Knospe, 2002) proposed a µ-synthesis approach. Adaptive control methods were investigated in several studies such as (Gibson and Buckner, 2002) and (Long et al., 1996), where the authors proposed an adaptive backstepping control scheme for compensating for uncertain load change and unbalance disturbance. Adaptive backstepping control was employed in (Dong and You, 2013) for a linearised AMB system with small parametric uncertainties. Nonlinear backstepping control was proposed in (Motee and de Queiroz, 2002) for regulation of the radial motion of an AMB system. An adaptive extension of this scheme was studied in (Xu et al., 2022), where only the mechanical dynamics were considered. Sliding Mode Control (SMC) approaches for linearised AMB plants were proposed in (Huynh and Hoang, 2016), (Kang et al., 2010) and (Jang et al., 2005). SMC for radial motion regulation was developed in (Wang and Zhu, 2016). The nonlinear dynamics of AMB systems was considered in several control approaches, however with linear approximations of the magnetic forces such as in (Saha et al., 2020) and (Kandil et al., 2018).

The majority of the reported work on control of AMB employ linearisation of the magnetic forces expressions, which limits the operating range of the model. Static input inversion was used in (Mouille and Lottin, 1992) to compute the appropriate voltage that would generate the demanded control forces. A similar approach was adopted in (Song and Mukherjee, 1996), where nonlinear adaptive control was designed for an AMB system. The inversion of the nonlinear input mapping was achieved by solving a set of second-order algebraic equations at every time instant. Such approaches can be problematic when there is ambiguity regarding multiple solutions, eventually leading to non-smooth current or voltage reference signals.
