# C. Optimal Non-Causal Controller

The optimal non-causal controller is assumed to have full knowledge of the plant dynamics, plant state and the (past, current and future) values of the disturbance. $K ^ { o }$ is optimal in the sense that it minimizes $J ( K , d )$ for each $d \in \ell _ { 2 }$ . A solution for the optimal non-causal controller is given in Theorem 11.2.1 of [16]. The controller is expressed as an operator with similar results used in [7], [8], [10]. An explicit state-space model for the finite-horizon, non-causal controller is constructed in [3], [5] using dynamic programming. These prior results were given for the case where $S = 0$ in the cost function (4). The corresponding infinite-horizon result is given below as Theorem 1 allowing for $S \neq 0$ . An independent proof is given here for completeness using a completion of the squares argument.

The state-space model for $K ^ { o }$ will be constructed using the stabilizing solution X of a discretetime algebraic Riccati equation (DARE). The next lemma gives sufficient conditions for the existence of this stabilizing solution of the DARE.

Lemma 1. Let $\left( A , B _ { u } , C _ { e } , D _ { e u } \right)$ be given and define $Q : = C _ { e } ^ { \top } C _ { e } , \ S : = C _ { e } ^ { \top } D _ { e u }$ , and $R : = { }$ $D _ { e u } ^ { \top } D _ { e u }$ .

Assume: (i) $R \succ 0 , ( i i ) ( A , B _ { u } )$ is stabilizable, (iii) $A - B _ { u } R ^ { - 1 } S ^ { \top }$ is nonsingular, and (iv) $\left[ \begin{array} { c c } { A - e ^ { j \theta } I } & { B _ { u } } \\ { C _ { e } } & { D _ { e u } } \end{array} \right]$ has full column rank for all $\theta \in [ 0 , 2 \pi ]$ . Then there is a unique stabilizing solution $X \succeq 0$ such that:

1) X satisfies the following DARE:

$$0 = X - A ^ {\top} X A - Q \tag {7}+ \left(A ^ {\top} X B _ {u} + S\right) \left(R + B _ {u} ^ {\top} X B _ {u}\right) ^ {- 1} \left(A ^ {\top} X B _ {u} + S\right) ^ {\top}.$$

2) The gain $K _ { x } : = ( R + B _ { u } ^ { \top } X B _ { u } ) ^ { - 1 } ( A ^ { \top } X B _ { u } + S ) ^ { \top }$ is stabilizing, i.e. $A - B _ { u } K _ { x }$ is a Schur matrix.

3) $A - B _ { u } K _ { x }$ is nonsingular.
