# Abstract

This paper introduces a novel multi-agent reinforcement learning (RL) approach for personalized glucose control in individuals with type 1 diabetes (T1D). The proposed methodology utilizes a closed-loop system consisting of a blood glucose (BG) metabolic model and a multi-agent soft actor-critic RL model acting as the basal-bolus advisor. The performance of the RL agents is evaluated and compared to conventional therapy in three different scenarios. The evaluation metrics include minimum, maximum, and mean glucose levels, as well as the percentage of time spent in different BG ranges. Additionally, the average daily bolus and basal insulin dosages are analyzed. The results demonstrate that the RL-based basal-bolus advisor significantly improves glucose control by reducing glycemic variability and increasing the proportion of time spent within the target range of 70-180 mg/dL. Specifically, in scenarios A, B, and C, the time spent within the target range increased from 66 66 ± 34 97 % to 92 55 ± 4 05 %, 64 13 ± 33 84 . . . . . .% to 93 91 ± 6 03 %, and 58 85 ± 34 67 % to 78 34 ± 13 28 %, respectively. The RL-based approach also effectively prevents . . . . . .severe hyperglycemia events (p ≤ 0 05) and reduces the occurrence of hypoglycemia. For scenarios A and B, hypoglycemic events .decreased from 14 2% ± 32 27% to 3.77% ± 4.01% and 16 59% ± 32 42% to 2.63% ± 4.09%, respectively. Notably, in scenario . . . .C, no hypoglycemic events were experienced in either of the methodologies due to a reduction in insulin sensitivity. Furthermore, the study demonstrates a statistically significant reduction in the average daily basal insulin dosage with the RL agent compared to conventional therapy (p ≤ 0 05). Overall, these findings indicate the effectiveness of the multi-agent RL approach in achieving .better glucose control and mitigating the risk of severe hyperglycemia in individuals with T1D.

Keywords: Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning; Basal-Bolus Advisor; Glucose Variability; Closed-Loop Blood Glucose[ Control; Automated Insulin Delivery.
