Flight controller
Onboard computer
4-in-1 ESC
39 cm
Rubber
Duct
Propeller guard
Bi-directional propeller
40 cm
5 cm
12.7 cm
9 cm
2.4 cm
13 cm
16 cm
</details>

Fig. 2. The structure and size illustration of the perching quadrotor.

One of the challenges is controlling the quadrotor to reach and maintain abnormal attitudes. Although modern electronic speed controllers (ESCs) enable bi-directional thrust generation in flight by changing the motor’s rotation direction (known as 3D mode) [21]–[25], which allows the UAVs tilt to upright and upside-down postures as well as make firm contact on inclined surfaces, current research on perching trajectories mainly focuses on reaching the target position with the bottom side of the quadrotor and using single direction thrust [15], [26]. Plans for approaching the surfaces with the top side and using bi-directional thrust are rarely investigated in existing works. Thus, we present a coherent trajectory generation and control framework to adjust this challenge.

In spite of several pieces of research indicating that the ceiling effect has the potential to save energy, the actual power that can be preserved on a complete quadrotor has not been assessed yet. The evaluation should be conducted while the quadrotor is stably perching with as less as possible thrust. Since we demonstrate a throttle control logic for perching, the power consumption in different conditions can be found in experiments.

We summarize the main contributions of this paper as follows:

1) We design a quadrotor that can utilize the ceiling effect to perch on planar structures with its top side.

2) We develop novel perching procedures for the quadrotor to reach different incline angles and verify the feasibility through experiments.   
3) We evaluate the energy efficiency and stability of our perching method.
