# I. INTRODUCTION

This paper considers control design for a discrete-time, linear time-invariant (LTI) plant. The goal is to design an output-feedback controller to: (i) stabilize the plant, and (ii) ensure a generalized error remains small in the presence of disturbances. Two common problem formulations assume the plant is known and minimize the closed-loop gain from disturbance to error in either the $H _ { 2 }$ or $H _ { \infty }$ norm [1], [2]. The disturbance in the $H _ { 2 }$ or $H _ { \infty }$ optimal control problems has the interpretation of being random noise or the worst-case (antagonistic) input, respectively.

Recent work has focused on alternative formulations that avoid making these assumptions on the disturbance. Two threads of important results are most relevant for our paper. The first thread considers performance relative to the optimal non-causal (dynamic) controller with full knowledge of the disturbance [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8]. Regret is defined to be the (additive) difference in performance achieved by a given controller and the non-causal controller. The objective is to design a controller that minimizes the worst-case regret over all disturbances.

It is shown that this problem can be converted to an equivalent $H _ { \infty }$ synthesis problem with a scaled plant model. Subsequent work considered the multiplicative ratio in performance, called the competitive ratio, achieved by a given controller relative to the non-causal controller [9], [10]. Additional related work considers state-and input constraints using system level synthesis [11] and regret-bounds for $H _ { \infty }$ controllers [12]. A second thread measures regret of a given controller relative to the best static state-feedback with full, non-causal knowledge of the disturbance sequence [13]. Online convex optimization techniques [14] are used to optimize over a class of disturbance action policies that depend on a finite history of the disturbance.
