Contributions. To address the above shortcomings, we propose a Low Interference Safe Interaction Controller (Fig. 1). This framework is more general in three dimensions. First, it takes an arbitrary performance policy, in contrast to [12], [20], [21], where the flock can only track reference trajectories of single or multiple virtual leaders. In fact, a feedback control policy can optimize objectives besides navigation and, in complex flows, leads to significantly better results than tracking a reference trajectory [4]. This enables the use of Dynamic Programming (DP) approaches where the value function yields optimal individual agent controls for an arbitrarily high number of agents without additional cost beyond a cheap gradient computation. This is especially powerful for multi-agent problems where the objective can be decomposed into the sum of independent single-agent objectives. Second, we provide design choices to modulate the aggressiveness of pursuing safety versus performance. Third, our approach also enables recoveries in case of connectivity losses. Finally, we investigate our method in the context of a promising approach to Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR): utilizing robotic seaweed farms [2].

Organization. Section II introduces relevant background and metrics to evaluate our LISIC in complex flows. In Section III, we present our LISIC approach, whereas in Section IV, we prove that our method guarantees safe network interactions under certain conditions on the maximum magnitude of the control and flow field velocities across the agents. Finally, we assess the performance of our approach in realistic ocean currents where these conditions are not always met with the metrics defined in SectionII.
