# 2. Preliminaries

The statements and definitions in this section are used in the technical results obtained in later sections. The statements given here give the conditions under which a continuous time system is finite-time stable, fast finite-time stable, and practically finite-time stable using Lyapunov analysis, and the last statement is used in developing the main result.

Lemma 1 (Finite-time stable). Bhat and Bernstein (2000a) Consider the following system of differential equations,

$$\dot {x} (t) = f (x (t)), f (0) = 0, x (0) = x _ {0}, \tag {1}$$

where $f : \mathcal { D } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is continuous on an open neighborhood $\mathcal { D } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ of the origin, and let there be a continuous and differentiable function $V ( x ( t ) )$ that is positive definite. Let the time derivative of V (x) satisfy the following inequality:

$$\dot {V} \leq - \lambda V ^ {\alpha}, \tag {2}$$

where $x ( t ) \in \mathcal { D } \backslash \{ 0 \} , \ : \lambda > 0 , \ : \alpha \in ] 0 , 1 [$ [. Then the system (1) is FTS at the origin, which means $\forall x _ { 0 } \in { \mathcal { D } }$ , x can reach the origin in finite time. Moreover, the settling time T , the time needed to reach the origin, satisfies

$$T \leq \frac {V ^ {1 - \alpha} (x _ {0})}{\lambda (1 - \alpha)}. \tag {3}$$

Lemma 2 (Fast finite-time stable). Yu et al. (2005) Consider the system (1) and let there be a continuous and differentiable function $V ( x ( t ) )$ that is positive definite. Let the time derivative of V (x) satisfy the following inequality:

$$\dot {V} \leq - \lambda_ {1} V - \lambda_ {2} V ^ {\alpha}, \tag {4}$$

where $x ( t ) \in \mathcal { D } \backslash \{ 0 \} , \ \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } > 0 , \ \alpha \in ] 0 , 1 [$ [. Then the system (1) is FFTS at the origin and the settling time T satisfies:

$$T \leq \frac {1}{\lambda_ {1} (1 - \alpha)} \ln \frac {\lambda_ {1} V ^ {1 - \alpha} (x _ {0}) + \lambda_ {2}}{\lambda_ {2}}. \tag {5}$$

Lemma 3 (Practically finite-time stable). Yu et al. (2005); Zhu et al. (2011) Consider the system (1) and let there be a continuous and differentiable function V (x) that is positive definite. Let the time derivative of V (x) satisfy the following inequality:

$$\dot {V} \leq - \lambda_ {1} V - \lambda_ {2} V ^ {\alpha} + \eta , \tag {6}$$
