Despite these drawbacks, recent methods have focused on addressing these issues by designing NN controllers whilst ensuring robustness guarantees in the process. Methods that focus on developing reinforcement learning algorithms such as [27, 28] are able to create an NN policy which can be combined with robust control guarantees. However, these approaches still suffer from other reinforcement learning issues such as requiring significant computational time and hyperparameter tuning. These drawbacks can be mitigated by instead trying to obtain an NN controller by learning from an optimal model predictive control law. This allows the NN controller to be trained offline and when implemented it can be significantly less computationally expensive than the full model predictive control law. To achieve this an SDP framework that incorporates integral quadratic constraints is presented in [29]. An iterative algorithm is used to alternate between optimising the NN parameters to fit the control law and maximising the region of attraction. However, these approaches require a known model predictive control law to optimise over the controller’s input-output data, which may not be easy to obtain. This approach relies on a loop transformation and Schur complement to ensure the optimisation problem is convex. Similar approaches have been used for different NN architectures such as recurrent NNs [30] and recurrent equilibrium network controllers [31]. These methods also include a projected policy gradient algorithm and reinforcement learning to synthesise the controller, instead of requiring an expert control law.
