Safonov, Stability and Robustness of Multivariable Feedback Systems.
MIT Press, 1980.
[32] J.
Doyle, “Analysis of feedback systems with structured uncertainties,” IEE Proceedings D - Control Theory and Applications, vol.
129, no.
6, pp.
242 – 250, 1982.
[33] A.
Packard and J.
Doyle, “The complex structured singular value,” Automatica, vol.
29, no.
1, pp.
71–109, 1993.
[34] S.
Boyd and L.
Vandenberghe, Introduction to Applied Linear Algebra: Vectors, Matrices, and Least Squares.
Cambridge University Press, 2018.
[35] Matlab, “Demo: Robust control of active suspension,” 2022.
[36] B.
Douglas, “(Matlab Tech Talks) robust control design: $H _ { \infty }$ to µ synthesis,” https://www.mathworks.com/videos/robustcontrol-part-5-h-infinity-and-mu-synthesis-1586760454181.html, 2020.
[37] T.
Kailath, A.
H.
Sayed, and B.
Hassibi, Linear estimation.
Prentice Hall, 2000.
[38] T.
Katayama, “A simple state-space approach to spectral factorization for discrete-time system,” Control-Theory and Advanced Technology, vol.
8, no.
3, pp.
647–657, 1992.
[39] J.
W.
Demmel, Applied numerical linear algebra.
SIAM, 1997.
[40] R.
Redheffer, “Inequalities for a matrix riccati equation,” Journal of Mathematics and Mechanics, pp.
349–367, 1959.
[41] H.
K.
Khalil, Nonlinear control.
Pearson New York, 2015, vol.
406.

[42] G. Zames, “On the input-output stability of time-varying nonlinear feedback systems–part ii: Conditions involving circles in the frequency plane and sector nonlinearities,” IEEE transactions on automatic control, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 465–476, 1966.   
[43] S. Boyd and C. Desoer, “Subharmonic functions and performance bounds on linear time-invariant feedback systems,” IMA Journal of Mathematical control and Information, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 153–170, 1985.
