# 4.1 Extension to Rational Neural Network Controllers

The technique outlined in the previous section can be used to recover a stabilising controller that is a rational function of the system states. However, we can expand this approach to consider an NN architecture that contains rational functions similar to the one proposed in (14). We consider a state feedback controller $u ( t ) = \pi ( z ( t ) ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ as a rational NN such that

$$x ^ {0} (t) = z (t),x _ {i} ^ {k + 1} (t) = \frac {p _ {i} ^ {k} \left(x ^ {k} (t)\right)}{q _ {i} ^ {k} \left(x ^ {k} (t)\right)}, \text { for } i = 1, \dots , n _ {k}, k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1, \tag {17}u _ {i} (t) = \pi_ {i} (z (t)) = \frac {p _ {i} ^ {\ell} (x ^ {\ell} (t))}{q _ {i} ^ {\ell} (x ^ {\ell} (t))}, \mathrm{for} i = 1, \ldots , n _ {z},$$

where $p _ { i } ^ { k } ( x ^ { k } ( t ) ) , q _ { i } ^ { k } ( x ^ { k } ( t ) )$ are the polynomials that form the rational expression associated with the $i ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ node in the $( k + 1 ) ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ layer. The number of neurons in the $k ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ layer is denoted by $n _ { k }$ . We will drop the time dependence notation throughout the rest of this paper for simplicity.

We can apply Proposition 5 and the theory of constrained dynamical systems as in [33] due to the well-defined structure of this controller. The following proposition shows how Lyapunov stability over constrained dynamical systems can be used to recover a controller of this form.

Proposition 6. Consider the non-linear system

$$\dot {z} = f (z) + g (z) u,u = \pi (z),$$

where $z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } }$ are the system states, $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ is the controller input and $f ( z )$ and $g ( z )$ are polynomials. Consider the controller structure $\pi ( z )$ defined in (17) and the region given by (7). Suppose there exist polynomial functions $V ( z ) , p _ { i } ^ { k } ( x ^ { k } ) \forall i = 1 , \ldots , n _ { k + 1 } , k = 0 , \ldots , \ell ,$ and $q _ { i } ^ { k } ( x ^ { k } ) \forall i = 1 , \ldots , n _ { k + 1 } , k = 0 , \ldots , \ell$ satisfying the following conditions
