Accordingly, Figure 2 illustrates the Control-Variability Grid Analysis [31] that was used to show the comparison between the performances of the proposed strategy against the conventional therapy.

In both Scenario A and B, the multi-agent RL-based basalbolus advisor demonstrates the ability to concentrate the data points around the middle of the green zone, specifically in the bottom-left area of the grid. Additionally, while there is a slight shift in the mean of the data points compared to conventional therapy, the standard deviation (represented by the radii of the circles) is significantly smaller in the proposed model.

In Scenario C, the performance of the RL-based basal-bolus advisor is particularly notable. The advisor demonstrates superior capability in maintaining both the mean and standard deviation within the green zones, showcasing the robustness of the proposed model against variations in insulin sensitivity compared to conventional therapy.

Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that conventional therapy experiences a few instances of severe hyperglycemic events, indicated by data points located near the boundary between the Upper B and Upper C zones, as well as within the Upper C zone. This further highlights the advantage of the proposed model in effectively preventing severe hyperglycemic events.

It is noticeable that the use of the RL agent resulted in a reduction in glycemic variability across the population such that the population average BG levels reduced from 134.71 ± 54.1 [mg/dL] to 120.80 ± 10.9 [mg/dL], 133.84 ± 50.75 [mg/dL] to 122.33 ± 6.31 [mg/dL], and 181.54 ± 44.72 [mg/dL] to 157.68 ± 21.151 [mg/dL] for scenario A to C, respectively.

Table 1: Metrics for different scenarios
