This example was used in prior work on competitive ratio [9] and additive regret [7], [8] with nominal dynamics $( \Delta = 0 )$ . The nominal regret, as defined in Section II, includes three special optimal controllers (values within numerical tolerances): (a) $H _ { \infty } \colon ( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } ) = ( 2 8 . 4 7 , 0 )$ , (b) competitive ratio: $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } ) = ( 0 , 1 . 3 3 )$ , and (c) additive regret: $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } ) = ( 1 2 . 2 7 , 1 )$ . The competitive ratio reported in [9] is $\gamma _ { C } ^ { 2 } = 1 . 7 7 ( = 1 . 3 3 ^ { 2 } )$ and this agrees with the value computed here.

Figure 10 shows these three points along with the Pareto optimal curve for feasible values $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } )$ of nominal regret (blue dashed curve). The curve was generated by: (i) selecting 20 values of $\gamma _ { d }$ in the range of $[ 0 . 0 0 1 , 0 . 9 9 9 ] \gamma _ { \infty }$ where $\gamma _ { \infty } = 2 8 . 4 7 .$ , and (ii) bisecting to find the minimal value of $\gamma _ { J }$ for each value of $\gamma _ { d }$ in the grid. Step 2 was performed using the method described in Section II. The bisection was stopped when the interval of lower/upper bounds on $\gamma ,$ denoted $[ \underline { { \gamma } } _ { J } , \bar { \gamma } _ { J } ]$ ], satisfied $\bar { \gamma } _ { J } - \underline { { \gamma } } _ { J } \leq 1 0 ^ { - 2 } + 1 0 ^ { - 3 } \bar { \gamma } _ { J }$ . The twenty points were computed in $\approx 4 . 5 \mathrm { s e c }$ on a standard laptop, i.e. each point on the nominal regret curve took $\approx 0 . 4 5 \mathrm { s e c }$ to compute.

Figure 10 also shows the Pareto optimal curve for feasible values $( \gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { J } )$ of robust regret (red dotted curve). The curve was generated via bisection on $\gamma _ { J }$ using the same grid of 20 values for $\gamma _ { d }$ . The bisection was performed using the method described in Section III with the same stopping conditions. The twenty points were computed with $\approx 7 8 9 \mathrm { s e c }$ on a standard laptop, i.e. each point on the robust regret curve took $\approx 3 9$ .4sec to compute. The robust regret is more computationally intensive as DK-synthesis must be used at each bisection step to synthesize a controller that satisfies the robust performance condition in Theorem 4.
