Remark 3 (Noise robustness of the ESO). Consider Corollary 2 and its constraints on differentiator gains. When the ESO measurements have noise and the constraints on gains in Corollary 2 are fulfilled, the estimation error dynamics of the proposed ESO will be PFTS. Moreover, according to Lemma 3 and Corollary 2, the η in (6) of Lemma 3 is a function on the level of noise in information on R, Ω, b and v and is monotonically increasing with the level of noise.

Remark 4 (Comparative Analysis of Noise Robustness: FFTS-ESO vs. the FxTSDO by Liu et al. Liu et al. (2022) ). We investigate the disturbance (forces or torques) observers proposed by Liu et al. (2022) in their Theorems 1 and 2, known as FxTSDO. The input of FxTSDO relies on the motion signals, X2, Y2, which represent translational and angular velocities, and $\dot { X } _ { 2 } , \dot { Y } _ { 2 }$ , which represent translational and angular accelerations, respectively. However, the high-level noise associated with the translational acceleration obtained from an accelerometer restricts its direct use in a flight control scheme. Additionally, direct measurement of angular acceleration is usually not feasible. Furthermore, if $\dot { X } _ { 2 }$ and $\dot { Y } _ { 2 }$ are obtained from the finite difference of $X _ { 2 }$ and $Y _ { 2 }$ , they will have higher noise levels than $X _ { 2 }$ and $Y _ { 2 }$ , leading to inferior disturbance estimation performance. In contrast to FxTSDO, the proposed FFTS-ESO incorporates position and attitude signals, which are zero-order derivatives of motions with lower noise levels. Consequently, FFTS-ESO outperforms FxTSDO in terms of disturbance estimation performance, despite the theoretical fixed-time stability of FxTSDO. We show this through our numerical simulations in Section 6.
