# 2.2. Multi-Agent RL Model

The multi-agent RL model used in this study consisted of two agents: a basal agent and a bolus agent, each representing different types of insulin. Both agents were trained using the soft actor-critic (SAC) algorithm, which is well-suited for continuous control problems with stochastic dynamics.

The development of the multi-agent RL model followed a two-step process. In the first step, the basal agent was trained in a closed-loop fashion using real-time data from the BG simulator. Specifically, data from scenario A, representing the nominal scenario, was utilized during the 7-hour fasting period before the first meal of the day. During the training of the basal agent, the bolus dosages for each meal were determined using the optimized insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio (ICR) described in the [5]. This ICR provides a guideline for calculating the appropriate amount of insulin based on the meal’s carbohydrate content.

This training aimed to evaluate the ability of the prescribed basal dosage to stabilize the BG level after fasting. The training objective involved minimizing an objective function that combines expected cumulative rewards and policy entropy.

Training of the basal agent involves minimizing the following objective function:

$$J (\theta) = \mathbb {E} _ {\tau \sim p _ {\theta}} \left[ \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T} \gamma^ {t} (r _ {t} + \alpha H (\pi_ {\theta} (a _ {t} | s _ {t}))) \right], \tag {2}$$

where J( ) is the objective function to be optimized, is a traθ τjectory of states, actions, and rewards sampled from the environment under policy , p is the distribution of trajectories induced by the policy $\pi _ { \theta } , \ r _ { t }$ is the reward received at time t πθobtained from the basal agent’s reward function explained in Algorithm 1 in the section 2.3. is the discount factor, is a γ αhyperparameter that controls the weight of the entropy regularization term, and $H ( \pi _ { \theta } ( a _ { t } | s _ { t } ) )$ is the entropy of the policy.

In the second step, the pre-trained basal agent was integrated into a model along with the bolus agent and the BG simulator.
