# 2.2 Stability of Neural Feedback Loops using Sum of Squares

In this section we outline the methods proposed in [25], which presents a method to determine if the equilibrium a closed loop NFL is stable and then also use this to compute an inner approximation of the region of attraction.

Consider a continuous-time system

$$\dot {z} (t) = f (z (t), u (t)), \tag {5}$$

where $f$ is the plant model $z ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } }$ and $u ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ are the system states and inputs respectively. nz and $n _ { u }$ are the number of system states and inputs respectively. This system is a continuous time NFL if the controller u is an NN. Consider a state feedback controller $u ( \bar { t } ) = \pi ( \bar { z } ( t ) ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { \bar { n } _ { z } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ as a feed-forward fully connected NN such that

$$x ^ {0} (t) = z (t),v ^ {k} (t) = W ^ {k} x ^ {k} (t) + b ^ {k}, \text { for } k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1, \tag {6}x ^ {k + 1} (t) = \phi (v ^ {k} (t)), \text { for } k = 0, \dots , \ell - 1,\pi (z (t)) = W ^ {\ell} x ^ {\ell} (t) + b ^ {\ell},$$

where $W ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { k + 1 } \times n _ { k } } , b ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { k + 1 } }$ are the weights matrix and biases of the $( k + 1 ) ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ layer respectively and $z ( t ) = x ^ { 0 } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } }$ is the input into the NN. The activation function $\phi$ is applied element-wise to the $v ^ { k } ( t )$ terms. The number of neurons in the $k ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ layer is denoted by $n _ { k }$ .

As shown in [25], an NFL can be viewed as a dynamical system with equality and inequality constraints that arise from the input-output description of the NN. These constraints can be described as the semi-algebraic set in (1). Further constraints can be added to the semi-algebraic set when only local asymptotic stability is being verified. The region

$$D ^ {z} = \left\{z \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n _ {z}} \mid d _ {k} (z) \geq 0, k = 1, \dots , n _ {d} \right\}, \tag {7}$$

is considered where the stability conditions will need to be satisfied.

Proposition 2. ([25]) Consider System (5) in feedback with an NN controller given by (6). Suppose the input-output properties of the NN are described by (1), and consider the region given by (7). Suppose there exists a polynomial function V (z) satisfying the following conditions
