# A. Flocking-Inspired Safety Controller

The sole objective of the safety controller is to ensure adequate distances between the agents without prescribing a formation. Hence, we design our safety controller $\pi _ { s a f e }$ based on the gradients of a potential function ψ.

To explain the principle, let us first focus on two connected agents i and j at an inter-agent distance $\left. \mathbf { q } _ { i j } \right. _ { 2 } =$ $\left\| { \pmb q } _ { i } - { \pmb q } _ { j } \right\| _ { 2 } .$ . Consider the following bowl-shaped potential function

$$\psi_ {\text { connected }} (\| \boldsymbol {q} _ {i j} \| _ {2}) = \frac {\kappa R _ {c o m}}{\| \boldsymbol {q} _ {i j} \| _ {2} (R _ {c o m} - \| \boldsymbol {q} _ {i j} \| _ {2})}, \tag {5}$$

where $\kappa ~ > ~ 0$ is a tuning factor to adjust the bell shape (see left of $R _ { c o m }$ in Fig. 2). Let the safety controllers for i be $\nabla _ { \pmb { q } _ { i } } \psi _ { \mathrm { c o n n e c t e d } } ( \left| \left| \pmb { q } _ { i j } \right| \right| _ { 2 } )$ and for $j \ \nabla _ { \pmb q _ { j } } \psi _ { \mathrm { c o n n e c t e d } } ( \| \pmb q _ { j i } ) \| _ { 2 } =$ $- \nabla _ { \pmb { q } _ { i } } \psi _ { \mathrm { c o n n e c t e d } } ( \left. \mathbf { q } _ { i j } \right. _ { 2 } )$ . When those two agents are getting too close $\| \pmb { q } _ { i j } \| _ { 2 }  0 .$ , the potential $\psi ( \left| \left| q _ { i j } \right| \right| _ { 2 } )$ goes to infinity, so the gradient controllers are a strong repulsive force that pushes them away from each other. Conversely, when the two connected agents are at risk of losing their communication link $\| q _ { i j } \| _ { 2 } \to R _ { c o m } ,$ , then $\psi ( \| \boldsymbol q _ { i j } \| _ { 2 } ) $ ∞, which means the gradient-controllers result in a strong, attractive force that brings them closer again. For multiple agents, the control becomes the sum of gradient potential terms of the other agents, and the magnitude of the gradients helps prioritize the critical inter-agent distances $\mathbf { \delta } \mathbf { \varepsilon } _ { \mathbf { \lambda } ^ { q } \mathit { i } _ { j } }$ .
