# 4.4. ESO estimates and errors

The ESO design on SE(3) is split into a translational ESO design on vector space $\mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ and a rotational ESO design on SO(3). Let $( \widehat { b } , \widehat { v } , \widehat { \varphi } _ { D } ) \in \mathbb R ^ { 3 } \times \mathbb R ^ { 3 } \times \mathbb R ^ { 3 }$ be the estimated position, b btranslational velocity, and disturbance force, as the states of the translational ESO. The estimation errors for the translational ESO are defined as follows:

$$e _ {b} = b - \widehat {b}, e _ {v} = v - \widehat {v}, e _ {\varphi} = \varphi_ {D} - \widehat {\varphi} _ {D}, \tag {45}$$

which are estimation errors of position, translational velocity, and total disturbance force respectively.

Let $( \widehat { R } , \widehat { \Omega } , \widehat { \tau } _ { D } ) \in \mathrm { S O } ( 3 ) \times \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ be the estimated attitude, angular velocity, and disturbance btorque states provided by the rotational ESO. For the rotational ESO, the error states are defined as follows. The attitude estimation error is defined as:

$$E _ {R} = \widehat {R} ^ {\mathrm{T}} R, \tag {46}$$

on the group of rigid body rotations, SO(3), which is not a vector space. The angular velocity estimation error, $e _ { \Omega } .$ , and torque disturbance estimation error, $e _ { \tau }$ , are expressed on the vector space $\mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ , and are defined as:

$$e _ {\Omega} = \Omega - E _ {R} ^ {\mathrm{T}} \widehat {\Omega}, e _ {\tau} = \tau_ {D} - \widehat {\tau} _ {D}. (4 7)$$

With a proper ESO design on SE(3), the error states $( e _ { b } , e _ { v } , e \varphi )$ and $( E _ { R } , e _ { \Omega } , e _ { \tau } )$ should converge to $( 0 , 0 , 0 )$ and $( I , 0 , 0 )$ , respectively. The ESO design and its stability proof are described in detail in the following section.
