# I. INTRODUCTION

Nowadays, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) have known a growing interest due to their wide range of applications such as military, telecommunications, rescue operations, surveillance, monitoring, agriculture, delivery of goods and emergency medical intervention $[1-3]$ . A quadcopter has several advantages compared to a conventional helicopter, like mechanical simplicity and high maneuverability. In addition, quadcopter provides a large lift thrust force that makes payload capacity increasing comparing to a helicopter. However, the major drawback of quadrotors is energy consumption due to the use of four actuators.

An UAV is required to perform risky or tedious missions under extreme operational conditions that are not feasible for conventional piloted flights [3].

Moreover, UAV's flight control systems are considered to be mission critical, as a flight control system failure could result in either the loss of the UAV or an unsuccessful mission. UAVs in operation remain remotely piloted, with autonomous flight control restricted to the primary modes of flight such as attitude hold, track hold along a straight track, from waypoint to waypoint, and a minimal level of control of flight or loiter maneuvers. While linear or gain-scheduled linear controllers may be typically adequate for these operations, it is often found that the UAV dynamics is nonlinear and that the linear controllers will not meet the performance requirements even when the gains are scheduled. This is due to the adverse coupling between the longitudinal and lateral dynamics that necessitates additional feedback. Furthermore, the uncertainty in the parameters of the mathematical model of the UAV and the environmental uncertainties are significant, and this can be another factor in making the design of long-endurance, high integrity autonomous flight controllers based on linear models that are extremely challenging.

Several advanced control approaches have been proposed to handle the nonlinear aerodynamics and kinematic effects, actuator saturations and rate limitations, modeling and parameters uncertainty to meet the increasing requirements on stability, performance and reliability.
