# Phase labels and meter-to-transformer assignments

Phase labels are essentially always unknown and phase identification has received considerable research attention [10, 11]. In our industrial experience, to obtain usable models for power flow calculations, utilities assign arbitrary values to the phase connections, e.g., assuming that users are divided equally among the phases. In single-phase DNs, like North-American LV ones, the equivalent exercise is the meter-to-(single-phase) transformer assignment. In three-phase DNs, wrong user-to-transformer mappings affect phase and topology identification.Network layout

Network layouts are usually known to a significant extent: line paths are derived by interpolating GIS objects (transformers, buildings, etc.). However, errors like (A) and (B) in Fig. 1 are common, especially where the objects are physically close.

Improvements may be possible on the criteria that assign users to feeders and branches. For instance, a criterion used in Belgium is to assign an object to the network branch which is closest to the object’s geometrical baricenter. A better ruleof-thumb would be that of using the distance from the front door. Nevertheless, in LV networks we observed that user-cable connections are occasionally ‘illogical’ from an electric installation perspective, e.g., users are not connected to the closest feeder cable due to historical circumstances.

Inconsistencies in the DN layout fall under the category of ‘topology errors’. Errors like Fig. 1 (B) are typically easier to detect than errors like (A) by statistical analysis: load patterns, unbalance levels and tap settings cause larger voltage profile differences across different transformers than they do across different branches of the same transformer. A situation ‘between’ (A) and (B), relatively common in Flanders, is to have a user connected to a different feeder from the same transformer. Wrong switch states, like Fig. 1 (C), imply meterto-transformer or meter-to-branch mismatches, and are caused by a lack of tracking of the DN layout after maintenance and operation actions.

Finally, GIS-derived models present a high number of electrically superfluous nodes. A well-known example is the IEEE European LV Test Feeder, which has 906 buses originally. The buses can be reduced to less than 120 without approximation, by adding up the lengths of multiple segments of the same type as in Fig. 2. Such reductions can be applied to any network data set, and results in streamlined data and improved solve times for physics-based optimization and simulation engines.
