Depending on the induced norm, the computation of the matrix measure changes. Certain important properties of matrix measure that will be used in this paper are mentioned here. For square matrices $A , B ,$ and for all $\lambda \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ ,

$$P 1 (S u b a d d i t i v i t y): \mu (A + B) \leq \mu (A) + \mu (B),P 2 (C o n v e x i t y): \mu (\lambda A + (1 - \lambda) B) \leq \lambda \mu (A) + (1 - \lambda) \mu (B). \tag {7}$$

The following lemma presents sufficient conditions for a PWS system’s incremental stability, consisting of two modes.

Lemma 2.6 [17] Let $C \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be some forward invariant set. If there exist some positive constants $c _ { 1 } , c _ { 2 } > 0 ,$ , and certain norm defined in ??, and corresponding induced matrix measure denoted as $\mu$ (as defined in Definition 2.5), then a bimodal switched system (i.e., ?? = {1, 2} in (1)) with $u = \left( u _ { i n t } , u _ { e x t } \right) = 0$ is said to be incrementally exponentially stable in ?? with a convergence rate $c = \operatorname* { m i n } ( c _ { 1 } , c _ { 2 } )$ , (i.e., for all $t \geq 0 , | | \delta \xi ( t ) | | \leq k e ^ { - c t } | | \delta \xi ( 0 ) | | ) .$ , if for all $t \geq 0$ the following conditions hold.

$$\mu \left(\frac {\partial f _ {1} (\xi , t)}{\partial \xi}\right) \leq - c _ {1}, \forall \xi (t) \in \bar {S} _ {1}, \tag {8}\mu \left(\frac {\partial f _ {2} (\xi , t)}{\partial \xi}\right) \leq - c _ {2}, \forall \xi (t) \in \bar {S} _ {2}, \tag {9}\mu \left[ \left(f _ {1} (\xi , t) - f _ {2} (\xi , t)\right) \nabla H (\xi (t)) \right] = 0, \forall \xi (t) \in \mathcal {M}. \tag {10}$$

Here, $\delta \xi$ is the virtual displacement allowed in the solution of (1) in the tangent direction. The detailed proof of the Lemma 4 can be referred to in [17, Theorem-6]. The following lemma details the connection between the incremental stability of the regularised system and the original PWS system.

Lemma 2.7 In a forward invariant set $C \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , if there exists some $\epsilon > 0 ,$ , the regularized system is exponentially incrementally stable with a convergence rate $c > 0 ,$ , any two solutions of the original system $\xi _ { x } ( t )$ and $\xi _ { x ^ { \prime } } ( t )$ for any initial states $x , x ^ { \prime } \in C$ converge towards each other in the limiting behavior, $i . e . , \epsilon \to 0$ .

The proof of this lemma can be found in [17].
