# 3.3. CHOICE OF CONTROLLER FOR EV-BASED MITIGATION SCHEME

Unlike the studies in [29]- [32] that support the grid’s steady-state operation using EVs, we utilize EVs to create a mitigation scheme to attenuate the impact of LA attacks. Additionally, unlike traditional approaches that create controllers to mitigate specific disturbances, we use EVs to mitigate the three known types of LA attacks by optimizing the controller to accomplish multiple objectives. Also, by formulating our mitigation scheme as a feedback controller, we eliminate the need for attack detection tools since the controller reacts to the changes in the grid’s states. These states are recovered by the utility by using the observer suggested above. We suggest a family of H-2, H-∞, and mixed H-2/∞ control techniques to synthesize our problem as a convex optimization with LMI constraints [44] to achieve a guaranteed attenuation level of the attack impacts.

H-∞ controllers minimize the maximum singular value of a function while H-2 controllers minimize the energy of the output signal over the entire frequency range. This would result in the H-2 controller performing better than H-∞ over most frequencies but failing at specific frequencies. H-∞ controllers have been adopted in mechanical systems such as missile or satellite trajectory control [45] and suspension systems [46]. However, we intend to adopt the usage of such controllers into the domain of power grid protection against LA attacks. Although, H-2 controllers have received less attention in the literature than H-∞, their ability to outperform H-∞ at most frequencies merits their usage in our study. Given the complexity of our problem and the need to address multiple objectives simultaneously, we ultimately choose the mixed H-2/∞ controller to enable our EV-based mitigation scheme to handle the different types of LA attacks.
