# 3.1 Fundamental estimates

First, we provide two fundamental stability results bounding the error of the NN approximations (relative to the optimal tuple $( \bar { y } , \bar { p } , \bar { u } ) )$ ) in terms of the population loss. Such weak type coercivity results enable reducing the error analysis to properly estimating the loss function. We first discuss the unconstrained case. The main challenge lies in the weak imposition of the Dirichlet boundary condition.

Lemma 3.1. Let $( { \bar { y } } , { \bar { p } } )$ be the solution tuple to the system (2.4) with $\bar { u } = - \lambda ^ { - 1 } \bar { p }$ . Then for any $( y _ { \theta } , p _ { \sigma } ) \in$ $\mathcal { V } \times \mathcal { P }$ , with $u _ { \sigma } = - \lambda ^ { - 1 } p _ { \sigma }$ , the following estimate holds

$$\| \bar {y} - y _ {\theta} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\Omega)} ^ {2} + \| \bar {p} - p _ {\sigma} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\Omega)} ^ {2} + \| \bar {u} - u _ {\sigma} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\Omega)} ^ {2} \leq c (\boldsymbol {\alpha}, \lambda) \mathcal {L} (y _ {\theta}, p _ {\sigma}).$$

Proof. To deal with the nonzero Dirichlet boundary conditions with $y _ { \boldsymbol { \theta } }$ and $p _ { \sigma }$ , we define

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{c c} - \Delta \zeta^ {y} = 0, & \text {in} \Omega , \\ \zeta^ {y} = y _ {\theta}, & \text {on} \partial \Omega , \end{array} \right. \quad \text {and} \quad \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} - \Delta \zeta^ {p} = 0, & \text {in} \Omega , \\ \zeta^ {p} = p _ {\sigma}, & \text {on} \partial \Omega . \end{array} \right. \tag {3.1}
$$

That is, $\zeta ^ { y }$ and $\zeta ^ { p }$ are harmonic extensions of the $L ^ { 2 } ( \partial \Omega )$ boundary data $y _ { \theta }$ and $p _ { \sigma }$ , respectively. $\mathrm { B y }$ the standard elliptic regularity theory [6, Theorem 4.2, p. 870], the following stability estimates hold

$$\| \zeta^ {y} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\Omega)} \leq c \| y _ {\theta} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\partial \Omega)} \quad \text { and } \quad \| \zeta^ {p} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\Omega)} \leq c \| p _ {\sigma} \| _ {L ^ {2} (\partial \Omega)}. \tag {3.2}$$

Let $e _ { y } = { \bar { y } } - y _ { \theta }$ and $e _ { p } = { \bar { p } } - p _ { \sigma }$ , also $\tilde { e } _ { y } = e _ { y } + \zeta ^ { y }$ and $\tilde { e } _ { p } = e _ { p } + \zeta ^ { p }$ . Then $\tilde { e } _ { y }$ and $\tilde { e } _ { p }$ satisfy
