Fig. 1 represents our system model including the LA attack against the grid and the defender’s mitigation scheme we are proposing. The attacker in the dotted box above the grid relies on the LA attack models discussed above. The state-space representation in the dashed box, below the grid, is constructed by the utility as part of the EV-based controller scheme we are proposing. This state-space representation is then used to calculate the EV gain matrix $K _ { d e f }$ used to determine the required EV active and reactive power and capture the behavior of the input $u = \varDelta P Q _ { E V }$ for the system to eliminate the impact of the attack/disturbance. The relation between the disturbance and the generator frequency can be expressed as $y = T \omega$ , where ?? is a transfer function written in terms of the state-space matrices. The behavior of $u = \varDelta P Q _ { E V }$ , is then captured and replicated on the set of secure EVs located throughout the grid. The mitigation controller is designed as a full-state feedback controller, i.e., $u =$ $K _ { d e f } x$ , where $K _ { d e f }$ is the gain matrix that is optimized to eliminate the disturbances caused by the attack. The state-space matrices are also used to calculate the observer gain matrix L needed by the utility to recover the grid states, x. Since not all the states are measurable, the utility obtains an estimate, ??̂, by multiplying the grid’s outputs, y, by the observer gain L. As such, the power of the aggregate EV load, $A P Q _ { E V }$ , is determined based on $\begin{array} { r } { \varDelta P Q _ { E V } = u = K _ { d e f } \hat { x . } } \end{array}$ Designing the EV-based controller based on feedback control law changes the A matrix to its closed-loop form, i.e., $A _ { c l } = A + B K _ { d e f }$ . Since the eigenvalues of $A _ { c l }$ define the stability of the power grid, it is of paramount importance that the methodology used to calculate $K _ { d e f }$ guarantee the mitigation scheme’s performance under different types of attacks when faced with the different uncertainties and obstacles of a real-life deployment. The mentioned sources of uncertainty in the EV load are discussed in the controller design section and studied in Section 5.
