# A. Adaptive Cruise Control

The proposed ESOR-QP is applied to a typical ACC problem [17], [6] in this subsection. The ego car equipped with an ACC system cruises at a desired speed $v _ { d }$ while maintaining a safe distance from the lead car. The speeds of the lead car and the ego car are $v _ { l }$ and $v _ { f } ,$ , respectively. The distance D between two cars is measured by a radar.

By defining the system state as $x = [ v _ { f } , D ] ^ { T }$ , the dynamic system is described as:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {v} _ {f} \\ \dot {D} \end{array} \right] = \underbrace {\left[ \begin{array}{c} - F _ {r} (v _ {f}) / m \\ - v _ {f} \end{array} \right]} _ {f (x)} + \underbrace {\left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 / m \\ 0 \end{array} \right]} _ {g (x)} u + \underbrace {\left[ \begin{array}{c} d _ {0} \\ v _ {l} \end{array} \right]} _ {d (t)} \tag {27}

y = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} v _ {f} & D \end{array} \right] ^ {T}
$$

where m is the mass of the following car, u is the control input, $F _ { r } ( v _ { f } ) = f _ { 0 } + f _ { 1 } v _ { f } + f _ { 2 } v _ { f } ^ { 2 }$ is the aerodynamic drag term with coefficients $f _ { 0 } , \ f _ { 1 } ,$ , and $f _ { 2 } , d _ { 0 } ( t )$ is an external disturbance. $d ( t )$ includes $d _ { 0 } ( t )$ and $v _ { l }$ because they both are unknown to the ego car.

Safety (safe distance keeping) and stability (desired velocity tracking) are two major objectives of the ACC controller design. The safety constraint of CBF is established based upon a safety function $h ,$ which is usually a distance function for collision avoidance. In this particular ACC problem, $h = D - \tau _ { d } v _ { f }$ , where $\tau _ { d }$ is called headway. The stability constraint is implemented using a CLF with an energy-like function $V = ( v _ { f } - v _ { d } ) ^ { 2 } \ [ 1 ]$ . The values of the parameters can be found in [6]. The disturbance $d _ { 0 } = 0 . 2 g \sin { ( 2 \pi t / 1 0 ) }$ is imposed on the ego car.

Based on the discussion in Section II-B, the ACC system can be divided into the following two subsystems:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {v} _ {f} = - \frac {1}{m} F _ {r} (v _ {f}) + \frac {1}{m} u + d _ {0} \\ y _ {1} = v _ {f}, \end{array} \right. \tag {28}

\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {D} = - v _ {f} + v _ {l} \\ y _ {2} = D. \end{array} \right. \tag {29}
$$

Since there are two measurements, two disturbances can be estimated. Two ESOs can be designed as follows:
