# 4.1. REDUCED POWER GRID STATE-SPACE MODEL

Due to the complexity of power grids, the size of the state-space matrices is relatively large hindering the design of the controllers, i.e., the NE grid has 300 states. To preserve the correct system behavior while reducing its order, we use Hankel model reduction [57]. For this purpose, we calculate the Hankel Singular Values (HSVs) of the system states to optimize the system order reduction versus the preserved system accuracy. Fig. 4 represents the energy contained within the Hankel Singular Values (HSVs) of the first 40 states. Fig. 4 shows the sharp decrease in the energy of the HSVs as the order of the system states increases. Table 1 shows the preserved system energy based on the reduced system order. Since 99.81% of the total system energy is contained within the first 30 HSVs, we reduced the system order to 30 states. Beyond 30, any order increase does not significantly improve accuracy while considerably adding to the controller synthesis complexity. This order reduction is only used for controller synthesis, while the presented simulations are performed on the actual grid, not the linearized nor the reduced model.

TABLE 1. POSSIBILITIES FOR REDUCING SYSTEM ORDER 

<table><tr><td>Reduced System Order</td><td>Percentage of Preserved System Energy</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>83.93%</td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>98.38%</td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>99.81%</td></tr><tr><td>40</td><td>99.93%</td></tr><tr><td>50</td><td>99.97%</td></tr></table>
