Based on the above discussion, in this paper, we create a robust wide-area controller based on mixed H-2/∞ controller synthesis that utilizes the EVs as its control inputs to mitigate the impact of persistent static, switching, and dynamic attacks even when they are sustained for long durations. We follow a detailed methodology to evaluate the performance of the controller and examine its performance in comparison to H-2 and H-∞ controllers. The performance of this family of controllers makes them an ideal starting point for our mitigation scheme. The Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMIs) of the controllers are modified to fit our system and incorporate the uncertainties of the EV connection to the grid resulting in the formulation of a family of robust controllers. The robust controller formulation is meant to overcome the deployment obstacles that can cause uncertainties in the control signal sent from the utility to the participating EVs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to consider using EV charging loads in a scheme meant to mitigate the 3 known types of LA attacks. The contributions of this paper can be summarized as:

• We are the first to propose a robust mixed sensitivity wide-area controller that utilizes EV active and reactive charging load to stabilize the power grid during the 3 known types of LA attacks. Our control mechanism successfully eliminates the impact of persisting attacks without the need for a detection mechanism. Our mixed controller eliminates over 99.6% of the attack impact and returns the frequency to its normal operating range instantaneously.   
We design our robust feedback controller to account for uncertainties introduced by real-life deployment obstacles. We mathematically model this uncertainty and incorporate it into our controller synthesis. We are the first to study the stability of wide-area controllers under these uncertainties in the context of smart grid cyber-physical security.   
We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed EV-based mitigation mechanism through extensive time-domain simulations. These simulations show how the devastating impact of the 3 known types of LA attacks is eliminated completely and instantaneously while having a negligible impact on the range of the participating EVs as well as negligible cost.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 briefly presents the system preliminaries and the related studies. Section 3 discusses the grid modeling and the mathematical formulation of the controllers. Section 4 discusses the case studies and Section 5 examines the scheme’s stability and the effects of uncertainties. Finally, Section 6 concludes the paper.
