# INTRODUCTION

The integration of renewables, batteries, heat pumps and electric vehicles in power distribution networks (DN) can be approached in a model-driven fashion. Mathematical optimization-based techniques like four-wire unbalanced optimal power flow can serve as basis for a variety of decision support tools in the context of operating and planning the DN, including but not limited to: state estimation (SE), battery dispatch optimization, dynamic operating envelopes for PV systems, etc. Around the world, trials are being run to demonstrate the value of such advanced network tools and there is a wealth of startups commercializing such technologies.

Using electrical engineering models as the foundation for these tools offers advantages like explainability, granularity and ability to be validated. Being physics-based, these models are also non-biased. The key hurdle is the non-trivial input required: a valid network model including connectivity/topology and line/cable/transformer impedance information. Applying even the most advanced decision support tools to inaccurate network data inevitably leads to problematic or unreliable results. This hampers the adoption of new methods in the field, leading to subpar investment policies and slowing down the energy transition. Data capture and integration standards of the past are no longer sufficient to run in modern tools. Therefore, substantial data cleaning is required.

Recognizing that there are data quality issues, and identifying which specific ones, is itself not a trivial task. SE engines are generally able to identify specific buses and sensors with significant mismatch between models and reality, and can be used to validate the correction/identification of DN data. Using system identification methods, one can analyse the accuracy of physical attributes such as impedance data and topology.
