The main contribution of this work is our method for the third and final step depicted in Figure 1, the end-to-end refinement of Koopman models for optimal performance as part of MPC in a specific control task. Figure 2 summarizes our approach towards end-to-end refinement of Koopman models for optimal performance in (e)NMPC applications through RL. We use the actor-critic PPO algorithm (Schulman et al. (2017)) to learn the optimal model parameters θ for a given control task. Note that the refinement applies to all elements of the Koopman model, i.e., the predictor consisting of $A _ { \theta }$ and $B _ { \theta }$ , and the autoencoder given by ψθ and $C _ { \theta }$ . Using the cvxpylayers package (Agrawal et al. (2019a)), we construct automatically differentiable stochastic Koopman-MPC policies $\pi _ { \theta } ( \boldsymbol { u } _ { t } | \boldsymbol { x } _ { t } ) \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \mapsto \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ that serve as actors. These policies take a state $\mathbf { \Delta } \mathbf { x } _ { t }$ as input and compute the Koopman state $z _ { t }$ through a multilayer perceptron encoder ψθ. Then, by evaluating objective function and constraints through the decoder, any (e)MPC problem with a convex objective function and convex constraints (in state dynamic Koopmanspace x) can be formulated and solved using cvxsurrogate modelpylayers to obtain the optimal control solution $\boldsymbol { \mathbf { \mathit { u } } } _ { t } ^ { * }$ . As is common in applying MPC and suitable for an Koopman modelRL approach, our MPC policies are implemented using SHACusing a receding horizon approach and only return the control solution for the first control step in the MPC horizon. Given the current time step t and an MPC horizon of $t _ { f } + 1$ steps with the corresponding sets $\mathrm { T } _ { + 1 } = \{ t , \dots , t { + } t _ { f } \}$ and $\mathrm { T } = \{ t , \dots , t { + } t _ { f } { - } 1 \}$ , the OCPs that are solved inside the Koopman-MPC policies take the form
