• Unlike the challenges faced in interconnected systems, our proposed framework leverages contraction theory’s powerful property, which preserves incremental stability in interconnected nonlinear circuits/systems.   
• Unlike results [26], where the system considered is linear and feedback is switched, our proposition is valid for a more general interconnection. We consider that all interconnected subsystems are nonlinear switched systems based on state-dependent switching. This enhances the generality of the classes of systems under consideration.   
• The use of contraction-theoretic tools help to derive sufficient conditions based on matrix measures to ensure the overall system’s incremental ISS (??-ISS) with exponential convergence for both feedback and cascaded interconnections, whereas in many existing study of interconnected switched systems [24, 25], the nature of convergence is asymptotic.   
• We present a small gain-like condition to establish (??-ISS) of the overall system for the feedback system and later for the generalised interconnection.

Section (2) introduces the preliminaries related to the switched system in the presence of external and internal input. This section includes the definition of incremental ISS and preliminary existing results for the analysis of switched systems. Section (3) discusses the basic problem setup with system descriptions. In section (4), how contraction theory can be explored in analysing the (??-ISS) of switched interconnected systems is explained. While (5) states the results for generalised interconnection. In (6), numerical examples are considered, and simulation results are presented to claim the propositions, followed by concluding remarks in the last section.
