We repeat the RL training of the Koopman-RL and MLP controllers over ten random seeds. The values of training hyperparameters are given in the supplementary material. The MLP controllers have two fully connected hidden layers, each with 256 neurons, followed by an output layer with one neuron for F . All layers have hyperbolic tangent activation functions. As a performance indicator during the training process, we use the running average sum of rewards during the previous 30 episodes, i.e., 2,160 control steps. As the policies are updated every 2,048 control steps, taking the running average of 30 episodes has a relatively low variance while not being overly strongly influenced by actions resulting from outdated policy parameters. In the following, we call the undiscounted cumulative reward of an episode the score of that episode.

Figure 3 summarizes the RL training results for both RL-trained controller types. We show the running average of training scores of each training run. Due to using a pretrained Koopman model, the Koopman-RL controllers start the RL training at comparatively high scores. Still, after around 5,000 episodes, most Koopman-RL controllers have significantly increased their average scores compared to the SI baseline, and the performance reaches a plateau. Some training runs show rather steadily improving scores from the start, reaching the plateau after about 1,000 episodes. Other trainings show an initial drop in performance, followed by a recovery. The $\mathrm { M L P }$ controllers are randomly initialized and obtain low scores at the beginning of the training. The performance improves gradually and plateaus after about 3,000 episodes at average scores below those of the SI-pretrained Koopman controllers.

After completing all training runs, we test the policies that achieved the highest average running scores without exploration, i.e., we set $\mathbf { } \mathbf { } u _ { t } = \mathbf { \Gamma } \mathbf { } u _ { t } ^ { * }$ , on 100 test episodes. Table 3 shows the results of this test. A direct comparison of the three controllers, given the same randomly generated production rate trajectory, is given in Figure 4. Note that as exploration is turned off in these tests, the performance may be higher than during training (cf. Figure 3).
