The high potential of DN data has been acknowledged by Energy Networks Australia (ENA) in the ‘Data opportunities for smarter networks’ report [1]. The CSIRO-ENA network transformation roadmap [2] states that the full potential of distributed energy resources (DER) can only be realised in a future with multidirectional exchanges of both energy and information. The Sandia report [3] explores the use of measurement data to calibrate DN models for improved planning and grid integration of solar in the US. Note that differences in DN design patterns across the world affect the type of data quality issues and the methods to solve them. This paper reviews data quality issues that the authors observed in real-world network data from distribution utilities in Belgium and Australia: Fluvius and Ergon Energy Network and Energex, as well as the CSIRO LV feeder taxonomy [4]. Multiple other parts of the world likely present similar ones. Different categories of issues can be established, that impact physics-driven decision support tools as a whole:

1. modelling errors or shortcuts due to applying the circuit laws under invalid assumptions, e.g., using Kron’s reduction (KR) in networks where neutrals aren’t pervasively grounded;   
2. network data errors, e.g., problematic impedance values or topology information;   
3. (largely) inevitable measurement errors: ‘noisy’ or ‘bad’ data due to sensor tolerances or malfunction; and   
4. measurement inadequacy due to either A) semantic mismatch, e.g., having averaged instead of instantaneous values, or rms magnitudes instead of base frequency magnitudes; B) granularity mismatch, e.g., aggregated threephase measurements instead of per-phase; C) label mismatch, e.g., wrong location or phase meta-data.

To improve the data quality long-term, we need to:

• understand, apply and improve best practices in network data set development;

• develop and use tools that automate data cleaning and maintenance tasks; and   
• devise practical methods to validate data corrections using real-world observations.

Note that the higher quality the obtained network model is, the more use cases are possible. For example, explicit grounding models allow fault analysis in addition to power flow analysis. Similarly, modelling wire types and geometry for lines/cables allows harmonic analysis to be performed by solving Carson’s equations for different frequencies.
