# 4 Conclusion

This article presents a method for end-to-end RL of Koopman models for optimal performance in (e)NMPC applications. We exploit the modeling approach by Korda and Mezić (2018) to construct Koopman-MPC controllers with convex underlying OCPs, and cvxpylayers (Agrawal et al. (2019a)) for post-optimal sensitivity analysis, thus turning the Koopman-MPC controllers into automatically differentiable policies that can be trained using stateof-the-art RL methods like PPO (Schulman et al. (2017)). Applying a trained Koopman-MPC controller has a comparatively low computational cost due to the convexity of the OCPs. Therefore, our method should be able to produce predictive controllers that are real-time capable for potentially large control systems.

We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method by comparing the control performance to those of MPC utilizing models trained by system identification and model-free neural network controllers trained by RL. Specifically, we investigate two control applications derived from a CSTR model: (i) a setpoint tracking problem (NMPC, Section 3.3), and (ii) a demand response problem with hard constraints on state variables (eNMPC, Section 3.4). Our RL-trained Koopman models consistently outperform their counterparts trained by system identification.

Additionally, we alter the feasible region of a state variable in eNMPC and test the controllers without retraining (Section 3.5). Such changes in the control setting present a significant challenge to datadriven control. Due to the explicit constraints in the Koopman-eNMPCs, end-to-end training using RL preserves the controllers inherent adaptability to changes in the environment. Thus, even though the Koopman-eNMPCs lose some of the gains in performance from the RL refinement procedure, they can adapt better to the changes to the environment than the Koopman-eNMPCs trained by system identification alone. As expected, the neural network controllers cannot adapt as they implicitly learn the constraints of their environment through the rewards received during training.
