# 3.1 Interconnected System

There are numerous kinds of interconnected systems, including parallel, feedback, cascade, and others, based on how they are connected to each other. This work primarily examines a feedback-type interconnection, establishing fundamental results. It then explores a cascade connection, which is being treated as a special case of feedback interconnection, before extending the analysis to a general interconnection. Corresponding theoretical results are proposed to provide a comprehensive understanding of system behaviour under interconnection. First, we consider a feedback interconnection, which is an important class of interconnected systems having significant applications in control system design, as shown in Fig. 1. It can be inferred from the figure that two subsystems $\mathcal { G }$ and H are interconnected and are individually switched nonlinear systems. To see the effect of external input/perturbations in interconnection, $u _ { 1 }$ and $u _ { 2 }$ are considered. Moreover, the output(state in this case) of $\mathcal { G }$ acts as an internal input to H and vice versa. The feedback interconnection of switched non-linear systems perturbed by external and internal inputs can be represented as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {G}: \dot {\xi} _ {1} = f _ {1 i _ {\mathcal {G}}} \left(\xi_ {1}, \xi_ {2}, u _ {1}, t\right), \\ \text {第} \quad \dot {\xi} _ {1} = f _ {1 i _ {\mathcal {G}}} \left(t, u _ {1}, t\right) \end{array} \tag {11}
\mathcal {H}: \dot {\xi_ {2}} = f _ {2 i _ {\mathcal {H}}} (\xi_ {1}, \xi_ {2}, u _ {2}, t),$$

where $i _ { \mathcal { G } }$ and $i _ { \mathcal { H } }$ are the switching signals corresponding to two systems $\mathcal { G }$ and H, respectively. Compared to the general representation in (1), for the $\mathcal { G }$ (or H ) system, $\xi _ { 2 }$ (or $\xi _ { 1 } )$ acts as an internal input, i.e., $u _ { i n t } ( t )$ and $u _ { 1 } ( t )$ (or $u _ { 2 } ( t ) )$ acts as an external input, i.e., $u _ { e x t } ( t )$ . In this paper, each switched system in the interconnection is assumed to be bimodal, i.e., each switched system has two subsystems. Here, switching is used based on state-dependent conditions. The overall interconnection in compact form can be
