# 4.8. MITIGATION SCHEME FEASIBILITY

An added advantage of using EV charging in our mitigation scheme is that the required communication and control infrastructure is already in place. The required central authority needed to communicate with the distributed resources (EVCSs) is the CMS that already exists in the EV ecosystem. This CMS communicates and controls all the public EVCSs in real-time. Using the OCPP protocol, the CMS can turn the individual EVCSs on and off, change their charging rate, and discharge using V2G [25] [26]. This means that adopting our mitigation scheme would not require the addition of any software, hardware, or communication to the ecosystem. The Hilo project gives the utility the same control capabilities over private EVCSs. This means that adopting our mitigation scheme would not require any software and communication capabilities to be added to the ecosystem. Furthermore, since our mitigation scheme only requires the frequencies at the generators which are already monitored by the utility, implementing our mitigation scheme does not require the addition of any measurement devices.

Mitigating these attacks using our suggested scheme requires an extremely minimal cost to be incurred by the utility. To demonstrate this, we consider 2 different EVCS charging levels in Quebec with a charging rate of 24 and 50kW [58]. The hourly price of charging on these EVCSs is 7.53 CAD and 12.77 CAD respectively and is billed per second [58]. This means that mitigating Attack 2 and Attack 3 costs the individual EV user 6.28 cents on the 24kW EVCS and 5.1 cents on the 50kW EVCS. This means that when the utility reimburses the EV users for this cost, the utility will have to pay a total of 1,683-2,072 CAD (1,242- 1,530 USD) plus whatever extra value the utility determines in its incentive program. Mitigating Attack 1 however, requires double the cost since the energy loss from the EV batteries will be double that of the other 2 attacks.
