# I. INTRODUCTION

Safety is critical in controller design for robotic systems such as self-driving cars, aerial vehicles, and industrial robots that operate in dynamic and uncertain environments. Control barrier functions combined with quadratic programming (CBF-QP) method is a novel controller synthesis method that solves an optimization problem online with safety as a hard constraint [1]. Combined with a control Lyapunov function (CLF), as a dual concept of CBF, stability can also be included to form a CBF-CLF-QP.

CBF-QP renders a forward invariant set to enforce a dynamic system’s trajectory stay in a safe set over an infinite time horizon. However, the significant limitations include: 1) The assurance of safety relies on precisely modeled dynamics. Uncertainties due to parametric error, unmodeled dynamics, external disturbance, etc. hinder the safe deployment of robotic systems using CBF-QP. 2) Existing CBF-QP works assume access to full state, which is not practical.

There are four main categories of related works: 1) inputto-state robust CBF-QP: In [2], the authors did not estimate the disturbance but instead used the disturbance bound for robust control. All states were assumed to be available. 2) learning-based adaptive CBF-QP: Machine learning has been leveraged to compensate for model errors in CBF-QP,

such as reinforcement learning [3], episodic learning [4], and online learning [5]. The fundamental limitation is the lack of formal safety guarantees. 3) observer-based CBF: [6] used L1 adaptive control to estimate disturbance. [7] and [8] used disturbance observers (DOBs) to estimate disturbances in the dynamics of CBFs. These works all assumed available state information. 4) measurement-robust CBF: In [9], the authors used machine learning to establish the mapping from the perception to the states. However, the dynamics uncertainty was not considered. In [10], the authors used an Input-to-State Stable observer and a “Bounded Error” observer to estimate the states for robust safe control. However, the disturbances were not estimated and compensated. To sum up, there is no existing work simultaneously dealing with state estimation and disturbance estimation for a robust safe control using CBF-QP.
