1. Koopman-SI : MPC controller using a Koopman model to approximate the CSTR dynamics. The model is trained using SI on a data set generated using the mechanistic model (Equations (6a) - (6b)) and random control inputs. We provide a more detailed explanation of the data sampling and SI procedure in Subsection 3.2.   
2. Koopman-RL: MPC controller using a Koopman model to approximate the CSTR dynamics. We use the model of the Koopman-SI controller as an initial guess and tune it for taskoptimal MPC performance using the approach described in Section 2.4.   
3. MLP: A model-free neural network policy $\pi _ { \boldsymbol { \theta } } ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t } | \mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } _ { t } )$ in the form of a multilayer perceptron (MLP), trained by RL. Similarly to the Koopman-RL, each action is sampled from a normal distribution ${ \mathbf { } } { \mathbf { } } u _ { t } \ \sim \mathcal { N } ( { \mathbf { } } u _ { t } ^ { * } , { \boldsymbol { \sigma } } ^ { 2 } )$ , where the neural network produces $\mathbf { \nabla } \mathbf { u } _ { t } ^ { * }$ given the current state of the environment.

Matching our proposed workflow (see Figure 1), the remainder of this section is structured as follows: Subsection 3.2 elaborates on the data sampling procedure using the mechanistic model and discusses the subsequent SI process using the Koopman model architecture. Subsections 3.3 and 3.4 describe the end-to-end refinement of the Koopman models and report the performances of all three controller types for the NMPC and eNMPC applications, respectively. Finally, Subsection 3.5 presents our findings on a modified eNMPC, which we use to study the adaptability of end-to-end refined Koopman MPCs to modifications of constraints after training has been completed.
