# DATA PRACTICE IN DISTRIBUTION

Advanced Distribution Management Systems (ADMS) are often envisioned to become the key platform for network operations. Dubey et al. note that ADMS applications will benefit from data-centric components to quantify and improve the quality and consistency of the network data [7]. Today, however, many of the data sources have limited integration with respect to electrical engineering use cases, with a lack of consistency checks and lack of continual synchronization. Commonly, the data architecture may look as:

The geographic information system (GIS) tracks the locations of network assets. Lines are tracked as paths, and switches/breakers and transformers are commonly represented as nodes. The states of switches/breakers are not tracked as part of this data set.   
SCADA sensor data flows into time series databases. SCADA (sensors) may be set up to only communicate measurements when certain thresholds for change are exceeded, thereby limiting resolution.   
(A)DMS is used to track the on-line configuration of substations, so crews can be informed about live circuits risks, but it is less frequently used for power flow analysis.   
• Asset databases for instance track nameplates, spec sheets, procurement and field installation details.   
• A DER register tracks the installed capacities of solar, batteries and more. This is generally not integrated with smart meter (SM) databases, so checking for inconsistency is

hard. Furthermore, not all jurisdictions require customers to inform their utility company about the installation of certain inverter-based resources.   
SM data, both related to billing information and engineering data, is stored in separate time series databases. In Australia, third parties frequently often own the data - not the utility.   
• Electrical engineering tools like PowerFactory, PSS/Sincal or even in-house ones, are used for design and planning purposes. Their input models are often based on data exports from GIS, after which some data gaps are filled based on engineering standards or experience. These pieces of tacit knowledge are not pushed to other information systems.   
• Mappings of line construction codes to impedance values are sometimes maintained in a separate database.
