We perform SI by minimizing the sum of three loss functions (see Equations 2 - 4), corresponding to the three requirements to a dynamic Koopman model (see Section 2.4). To obtain Koopman models that perform well over multiple time steps of closed-loop prediction, we take a stochastic curriculum learning approach (Bengio et al. (2015); Zaremba and Sutskever (2014)), i.e., we start the training procedure by minimizing the mean-squared error (MSE) of predictions over a single time step, and, progress onto minimizing the average MSE over multiple time steps of continuous closed-loop prediction in later epochs. Such a curriculum learning procedure is designed to result in models that make accurate long-term predictions but to avoid exploding/vanishing gradients resulting from concatenating predictions of an untrained model in the first epochs. Specifically, in the first epoch, we use the one-step MSE as the loss function. After 250 epochs, we use the average MSE over 240 time steps, i.e., 2.5 days, of closed-loop prediction in every epoch. Between the first and the 250th epoch, we decrease the probability of taking the one-step loss linearly from 100 % to $0 \%$ in favor of the 240- step loss. We use the Adam optimizer (Kingma and Ba (2014)) with a learning rate of $0 . 5 \cdot 1 0 ^ { - 4 } ,$ , a minibatch size of 64 samples, and a maximum number of 5,000 epochs. We stop training early after at least 350 epochs if the validation loss has not reached a new minimum for 100 consecutive epochs.
