We present a method for end-to-end RL of Koopman models for optimal performance in (e)NMPC applications with hard constraints on states. Using the cvxpylayers package (Agrawal et al. (2019a)) to construct differentiable Koopman-MPC policies, we use Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) (Schulman et al. (2017)), a prominent RL algorithm for tasks with continuous action spaces, to learn taskoptimal Koopman models. We test our approach on two distinct case studies derived from a continuous stirred-tank reactor model from the literature (Flores-Tlacuahuac and Grossmann (2006); Du et al. (2015)): (i) an NMPC case study, wherein the controller objective is to stabilize the product concentration in the presence of an externally varying product flow rate, and (ii) a demand response case study, in which eNMPC seeks to minimize electricity costs without violating constraints on state variables. We assess the resulting control performance by comparing it to that of dynamic models trained exclusively with SI as well as model-free policies trained by RL.

Our findings demonstrate that end-to-end learning consistently outperforms SI in learning dynamic surrogate models of the CSTR model in our control applications. Additionally, we investigate to which extent the learned models and policies still function in the case of modified constraints. Such a change in the control setting is an example of so-called distribution shift (Zhang et al. (2021)), which is a major challenge in machine learning applications (Quinonero-Candela et al. (2008); Zhang et al. (2021); Yao et al. (2022)). We show that, unlike model-free policies, MPCs employing endto-end learned dynamic surrogate models may successfully adapt to such a change in the control setting without a need for re-training. To our knowledge, this work is the first to connect end-to-end learning of Koopman models to control applications with constraints on system variables and the first to study the ability of end-to-end learned dynamic models to adapt to a distribution shift in control.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides the theoretical background to our work and presents our method. Section 3 provides numerical examples on a case study. Section 4 discusses the conclusions and directions for future work.
