Model predictive control [4], feedback linearization [5], backstepping control [6], robust control [7-10], fuzzy control [11], sliding mode control (SMC) [12-16] and various other techniques have been developed meet the increasing demands on the flight performance where the demand include attitude stabilization and tracking control [17-19].

SMC [20-22] is one of the most important control techniques to handle nonlinear systems with external disturbances. However, the main drawback of sliding mode control is the so-called chattering phenomenon which can excite undesirable high-frequency dynamics. Several methods have been proposed in order to reduce or eliminate the chattering phenomenon of SMC like the use of approximation function in place of the signum function or High order sliding mode control (HOSMC) which retains the property of robustness, ensure finite time convergence and also reduces the chattering.

Since the quadrotor mass is the dominated parameter, an adaptive sliding mode controller is proposed in order to stabilize the quadrotor and to compensate additive perturbations and parameter uncertainties related to the mass of the quadrotor. Adaptation law is developed based on a Lyapunov approach to assure asymptotic stability.

The rest of the paper is structured as follows. The quadrotor nonlinear dynamic model is presented in Section II, Section III describes the controller synthesis while the observer synthesis is presented in Section IV. The results of numerical simulation are shown in Section V. Finally, section VI concludes this paper.
