In this case, $\gamma _ { l } ( r )$ ’s are linear in ?? i.e., ???? (??) = ?????? for $l \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 \}$ , and they qualify as $\mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ functions as defined in the notations section. If we invoke condition-1, for $j = 1 , \forall i \in { 1 , 2 } ,$ condition-2 for $j = 2 , \forall i \in { 1 , 2 }$ in Theorem 4.1, by using the property of matrix measure as mentioned in (7) and the regularised Jacobian in (18), (19), $\mu ( F _ { 1 } )$ and $\mu ( G _ { 1 } )$ can be negative. In such case, the functions $e ^ { \mu ( F _ { 1 } ) t }$ and $e ^ { \mu ( G _ { 1 } ) t }$ are exponentially decaying. As exponentially decaying functions are KL, we represent $\Vert \delta \xi _ { 1 } ( 0 ) \Vert e ^ { \mu ( F _ { 1 } ) t } = \beta _ { 1 }$ and $\lVert \delta \xi _ { 2 } ( 0 ) \rVert e ^ { \mu ( G _ { 1 } ) t } = \beta _ { 2 }$ , where $\beta _ { 1 } , \beta _ { 2 } \in { \mathcal { K L } } .$ . Hence, it can be observed that (38), and (39) are exact relations for ??-ISS of individual systems as given with (23) and (24) respectively. Where, ???????? G = ??1, ???????? G = ??2, ???????? H = ??3, and $\gamma _ { e x t \mathcal { H } } = \gamma _ { 4 }$ . This completes the proof of Theorem 4.1.

Remark 4.3 Theorem 4.1 is primarily aimed at establishing ??−ISS of individual subsystems. It is important to note that (23), (24) represent the ??-ISS relations if the sufficient conditions in Theorem 4.1 are satisfied. However, these relations are based on the evolution of infinitesimal differential lengths $\delta { \xi } _ { 1 }$ and $\delta { \xi } _ { 2 } .$ . This is equivalent to studying the time evolution of the distance between two trajectories as in definition 2.2. This equivalence between the two approaches to show incremental stability is well established in the literature and can be seen in [34].

Once we ensure individual subsystems in an interconnection are ??-ISS, we need to comment on the ??-ISS of the overall interconnection. The arguments are similar to those of small gain conditions in the literature [22], [35]. The result is stated in the following theorem.

Theorem 4.4 Consider that for the overall interconnected system, all conditions in Theorem-4.1 are satisfied such that,

• G is ??-ISS with respect to $( \xi _ { 2 } , u _ { 1 } )$ with gain ??1 from $\xi _ { 2 }$ to $\xi _ { 1 }$ ,   
• H is ??-ISS with respect to $( \xi _ { 1 } , u _ { 2 } )$ with gain ??3 from $\xi _ { 1 }$ to $\xi _ { 2 } ,$

and if there exists a function $\rho \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ such that
