Given assumptions we describe in Subsection 2.3, a solution point $\ b { a } ^ { * }$ of a parametric optimization problem is differentiable with respect to the parameters θ locally at a given $\pmb { \theta } ^ { * }$ . One of the assumptions is that the second-order sufficient conditions (SOSC) for a local minimum hold at $\ b { a } ^ { * }$ , which, for convex parametric programs with strictly convex objective functions, is easily verifiable through the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions (Karush (1939); Boyd et al. (2004)). Therefore, for end-toend learning of dynamic models for MPC, it is desirable to learn dynamic models that lead to convex optimal control problems (OCPs). A simple condition for convex OCPs are formulations with linear dynamics and convex constraints. Koopman theory (Koopman (1931)) aims to find globally-valid linear approximations of nonlinear process dynamics through a nonlinear coordinate transformation into a higher-dimensional linear state space. Koopman theory and its extension to actuated systems for control applications (Korda and Mezić (2018), therefore, provides a powerful framework to obtain surrogate models that can accurately represent continuous nonlinear dynamical systems while still resulting in convex OCPs, especially when combined with modern deep learning algorithms (Lusch et al. (2018)). Iwata and Kawahara (2022) and Yin et al. (2022) both use RL for end-to-end learning of taskoptimal Koopman models to obtain gain matrices that act on the Koopman invariant subspaces, minimizing the squared distance of the system state from a desired target state. However, similarly to linear-quadratic regulator control (Kalman et al. (1960)), this approach cannot easily be extended to (e)NMPC applications or applications with hard bounds on state variables.
