# 3.7. EV USER IMPACT AND PRIVACY CONCERNS

The main concern related to the suggested scheme is the impact on the EV users’ charging experience since such a scheme would require some of the connected EVs to charge and/or discharge. However, the average charging time for 100 miles of range is 20 hours per 1 kW charging rate [48]. This means that 11 kW EVCSs would deliver a charge equal to 0.9 miles/min, which varies between different EVs. The impact on EV range is thus minimal and discussed in Section 4.

Such a scheme should only involve EVs whose owners gave their consent to participate. This can be achieved through an incentive program implemented by the utility to motivate EV users to contribute to the mitigation scheme. Hydro-Quebec, a Canadian Utility, implements a similar program, the Hilo project [49], which allows them to control home loads to reduce the demand during peak times with plans to extend it to EVs.

Regarding private EVCSs at residences, the issue of user privacy comes to light. The trivial solution would be to implement this scheme on public EVCSs only. However, given the abundance of home EVCSs, we suggest an EVCS clustering by the utility based on geographical location. Utilities can broadcast a signal to the entire cluster without having granular knowledge of individual home EVCSs. For example, let’s consider areas A and B with 500 and 350 EVCSs respectively. Also, let’s assume that the estimated EV connection to the EVCSs in area A and area B is 20% and 30% respectively. If the utility wants to cluster the EVCSs such that 10 EVs are connected per cluster, this requires area A to have 10 clusters of 50 EVCSs, and area B to have 10 clusters of 35 EVCs. This, however, introduces uncertainty in the actual EV load used as a feedback control signal in the mitigation scheme since the number of connected EVs per cluster cannot be guaranteed. The impact of this clustering method is examined in Section 5 as part of our EV-based mitigation scheme’s stability study.
