# 4 Numerical experiments and discussions

Now we present some numerical experiments to illustrate OSNN, and compare it with ALM and AONN, cf. Section 2.4. All the examples are academic but not directly amenable with the standard Galerkin FEM, and we leave a more thorough experimental evaluation, including more advanced training algorithms and more complex problem settings to future work. Throughout, we fix the weight $\alpha _ { i } = \lambda ^ { - 1 }$ in OSNN and set $\alpha _ { b } ^ { y } = \alpha _ { b } ^ { p } / \alpha _ { i }$ (so there is only one hyper-parameter $\alpha _ { b } ^ { y }$ in OSNN). This heuristic rule works reasonably well for OSNN. AONN and ALM involve more hyper-parameters. The boundary weight $\alpha _ { b }$ of the PINN residual is determined by grid search [41]: we apply PINN to solve a direct problem with analytic solution, with a range of $\alpha _ { b }$ values, and select the one $\alpha _ { b } ^ { * }$ attaining the smallest validation error for use in the state and adjoint solvers. Other hyper-parameters, e.g., penalty factor $\mu$ in ALM, and step size s and the number K of gradient descent steps in AONN are all determined manually; see Table 1 for the values. The scalars $N _ { \mathrm { o s n n } }$ and $N _ { \mathrm { a l m } }$ denote the total number of iterations for OSNN or the number of iterations for each subproblem (ALM). For AONN, each PDE solve and the gradient descent step described in (2.12) employs $N _ { \mathrm { a o n n } }$ iterations. The function $\rho$ is taken to be tanh. The NN parameters are initialized by the Xavier scheme (with zero bias) via Flax (https://github.com/google/flax), and the multipliers in ALM are initialized to zero. To measure the accuracy of the approximate state $y ^ { * }$ , we employ the relative $L ^ { 2 } ( \Omega )$ error $e ( y ^ { * } ) = \lVert y ^ { * } - { \bar { y } } \rVert _ { L ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } / \lVert { \bar { y } } \rVert _ { L ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) }$ , where ¯y denotes the exact state, and similarly for the control $u ^ { * }$ . The relative errors are computed using a test set different from the training one. Throughout, the NN has 4 hidden layers, each having 80 neurons. We employ the Adam algorithm [28] provided by the $\mathrm { O p t a x }$ library optax.adam (version 2.0.0) from JAX (https://github.com/google/jax), using single floating-point precision. All the experiments are conducted on an NVIDIA RTX A100 GPU. The code for reproducing the experiments will be made publicly available at Github.
