The values of the training hyperparameters are given in the supplementary material. The MLP controllers have separate input layers for $x _ { t } , l _ { t } ,$ , and the trajectory of future electricity prices. Each of those input layers is followed by a hidden layer, with 100, 56, and 100 neurons, respectively. The outputs of those layers are concatenated and passed through two fully connected layers, each of size 256 neurons. The output layer has two neurons, one each for $\rho$ and F . All layers have hyperbolic tangent activation functions.

As in NMPC, we repeat the RL training of the Koopman-RL and MLP controllers over ten random seeds. Again, we use the average running score during the previous 30 episodes, i.e., 2,160 control steps, as a performance indicator during the training process. Figure 5 summarizes the RL training results for both controller types. We show the running average of training scores of each training run. Unlike in NMPC, the SI pretraining of the Koopman models does not lead to high initial scores, as the resulting Koopman MPCs frequently produce minor constraint violations resulting in low rewards (see Equation 13). The performance of the Koopman-RL controllers improves and saturates after about 2,500 episodes. After 5,000 episodes, the maximum running scores of the Koopman-RL controllers have reached values between 1.4 and 3.8. The running scores of the MLP controllers rise to around zero after only about 750 episodes. Afterward, the running scores continue to rise slowly, saturating only after about 20,000 episodes at maximum running scores between 4.6 and 5.7. We stopped the RL refinement of the Koopman-RL controllers at 5,000 episodes because of the high computational cost of the training procedure compared to the MLP controllers, which is due to the necessity to solve and backpropagate through OCPs repeatedly. Because our case study is relatively small, analyzing training runtimes would give little insight into the expected runtime for a practical control problem. Thus, we defer this analysis for future work on more realistic systems.
