<table><tr><td>Encoder model</td><td>Decoder model</td><td>Autoencoder MSE</td><td>True pos. (sensitivity)</td><td>True neg. (specificity)</td></tr><tr><td>SI</td><td>SI</td><td> $3.2 \cdot 10^{-5}$ </td><td>0.844</td><td>0.995</td></tr><tr><td>RL</td><td>RL</td><td> $3.5 \cdot 10^{-4}$ </td><td>0.980</td><td>0.947</td></tr><tr><td>SI</td><td>RL</td><td> $3.5 \cdot 10^{-5}$ </td><td>0.844</td><td>0.995</td></tr><tr><td>RL</td><td>SI</td><td> $4.1 \cdot 10^{-4}$ </td><td>0.971</td><td>0.947</td></tr></table>

Both Table 6 and Figure 7 show that the Koopman-RL controller is best at adapting to a change in the control setting, even though RL trained it for optimal performance in a somewhat different setting. Even though the tightened bounds and shifted bounds cases lead to more frequent constraint violations than in the original setting (cf. Table 4), the Koopman-RL controller apparently still profits from its end-to-end refinement, as constraint violations are markedly rarer than for the Koopman-SI controller. In the tightened bounds and relaxed bounds cases, the relative difference in the frequency of constraint violations compared to the Koopman-SI controller stays similar to the original case (cf. Table 4). In the shifted bounds case, the Koopman-RL controller produces more constraint violations than in the other two cases, which is expected, as the RL training discouraged ever entering the shifted bounds range.

Unsurprisingly, the MLP controller is agnostic to a change in the control setting and fails in the tightened bounds and shifted bounds cases. In the relaxed bounds case, it causes few constraint violations due to its unaltered behavior. Again, all constraint violations are violations of the non-negativity constraint of the product storage, which we did not relax. As the MLP controller respects the original training bounds of the state variables c and T , it

Tab. 6. Adapted lower (lb) and upper (ub) bounds of c and constraint violations resulting from applying the controllers without retraining. The constraint violation column reports the percentage of control steps that result in constraint violations.
