We investigate the use of deep neural networks for solving high-dimensional elliptic optimal control problems. The method is based on the well-known Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) system [34, 49], which consists of a state equation, an adjoint equation, and an equality / variational inequality for the unconstrained and constrained cases, respectively. The (in)equality allows recovering the optimal control from the optimal adjoint, and the KKT system can be reduced a coupled system for the state and adjoint. Then one applies deep neural networks to solve the reduced optimality system, and hence the name OSNN. We describe the discrete formulations in detail for the unconstrained, constrained, and semilinear cases. Moreover, we give an error analysis of the approach for linear elliptic optimal control problems, and derive an $L ^ { 2 } ( \Omega )$ error estimate for the approximate control, state, and adjoint. The convergence analysis represents the main technical contribution of the work, and it is carried out in two steps. First, using the PDE regularity theory and the idea of reconstruction, we derive weak coercivity estimates which bound the state etc. using the population loss, cf. Lemmas 3.1 and 3.2. Second, using statistical learning theory, we bound the difference between the population and empirical loss, which involves two parts: approximation and statistical errors. The former arises from approximating the solution of the problem using NNs and is bounded using approximation theory of NNs [18], and the latter arises from using Monte Carlo methods to approximate the (potentially) highdimensional integrals and is bounded using offset Rademacher complexity [33, 15] and suitable continuity estimates on NN functions. This analysis yields sharper bounds on the statistical error, improving several existing works (see, e.g., [26, 23]) that are based on Rademacher complexity, and thus it is of independent interest. Finally, we present several numerical experiments to illustrate features of the method, and give a comparative study with two existing neural solvers. To the best of our knowledge, OSNN represents the first NN based solver with convergence guarantees for elliptic optimal control problems.
