We observe that convergence to high average scores is unstable, especially for the Koopman-RL policies. This is a common finding in policy optimization algorithms (Schulman et al. (2015a, 2017)), stemming from the fact that small perturbations to the parameters θ of a policy can have outsized effects on the resulting actions, and thus also the rewards. We hypothesize that this effect is aggravated when learning the parameters of an MPC policy, as small changes in trajectory predictions can lead to very different active sets of constraints, resulting in vastly different control outputs.

Similar to our analysis in Section 3.3, after completing the controller training runs, we test the policies which achieved the highest ever running scores during training. We perform this testing without exploration, i.e., we set $\mathbf { \Delta } \mathbf { u } _ { t } = \mathbf { u } _ { t } ^ { * }$ , and we report the performance metrics in Table 4. Additionally, we show the control behavior of the three controllers in a three-day test episode using a randomly sampled continuous electricity price profile from the test set in Figure 6 for illustration purposes.

Table 4 shows that even though the Koopman-SI controller achieves the highest cost savings, it does so at the expense of causing many constraint violations. The Koopman-RL controller and the MLP controller cause few constraint violations. In case of the Koopman-RL controller, all violations are related to the bounds of the concentration variable c. The MLP controller achieves higher cost savings than the Koopman-RL controller. Interestingly, all constraint violations by the MLP controller are violations of the non-negativity constraint of the product storage. Apparently, the controllers utilize the product storage quite differently. While the Koopman-SI controller mostly keeps the storage near-empty, the Koopman-RL controller exhibits the opposite behavior, generally operating close to the maximum storage capacity of six hours, which could partially explain the difference in economic performance compared to the MLP controller. Most importantly, end-to-end training clearly improved the overall performance of the Koopman MPC in this application.
