A comprehensive example of a real-world data architecture is given in EPRI technical brief [8] (p.6). The lack of integrated databases can cause data management difficulties, and creates data quality issues when combining different sources for engineering models. Some of these errors can be spotted with SM data, e.g., failure to report a PV installation from the register to the engineering model can be detected by presence of power injection. The errors described in this section add to those from wrong modelling error choices, like KR, and those induced by the individual unknowns/errors in the separate databases, e.g., impedance and phase connectivity information.

Practitioners need to be aware of the ‘best practices’ in engineering modelling. Utilities may have different teams responsible for modelling subtransmission, MV and LV networks. Phase unbalance is easily neglected when taking high-voltage network modelling approaches and applying them to MV networks. Similarly, neglected neutral voltage rise and sequence impedance parameterizations may occur due to the adoption of MV modelling approaches in LV contexts. These are avoidable approximations.

It is interesting to contrast academic perspectives with industrial ones. A blog post∗ discusses a number of organizational obstacles to the adoption of better digital network models:

• lack of accountability and responsibility in developing and maintaining data sets;   
• excessive data flows from smart devices and sensors;   
• field teams with high degrees of tacit knowledge that do not trust the data in the IT systems;   
• lack of understanding with administrators on how the DN is constructed and operated; and   
• product issues in managing and maintaining data.
