# 3.4. H-2 AND H-∞ CONTROLLER DESIGN

In this subsection, the EV-based mitigation controller scheme is developed, and its mathematical formulation is obtained based on the LMIs of the desired control law [44]. Writing our controller equations as LMIs gives us the flexibility to (i) finetune their design, (ii) implement complex control schemes, and (iii) combine multiple objectives into a single optimization problem. In our study, the unknown LA attack is treated as a persisting disturbance, ??, whose impact we aim to attenuate. The relationship between the disturbance and the system states and outputs is governed by (2) presented above. Our mitigation scheme aims to simultaneously minimize the impact of the attack and the EV load involved in the feedback controller signal. To this end, we design our control methods below and modify the design to achieve all our desired objectives in the sub-sections that follow.

1) H-2 controllers [44] aim to minimize the L2 norm of a system across the entire frequency range. This means that the cost function of the H-2 controller is the Euclidean distance of the outputs from the origin. This allows the H-2 controller to rapidly react and eliminate the disturbances in a system by using rapidly increasing input signals. The transfer function $T _ { 2 }$ , representing the influence of the disturbance ?? on the grid output, i.e., generator frequency ??, is presented in (6):

$$T _ {2} = \frac {y}{\omega} = (C + D K _ {d e f}) (s I - (A + B K _ {d e f})) ^ {- 1} B _ {d} \tag {6}$$

The cost function of the H-2 controller becomes $| | T _ { 2 } | | _ { L ^ { 2 } } < \gamma$ . This function is rearranged in terms of its LMIs (7)-(8).

$$(A X + B K _ {d e f} X) ^ {T} + A X + B K _ {d e f} X + B _ {d} B _ {d} ^ {T} < 0 \tag {7}\operatorname{trace} \left\{\left(C + D K\right) X (C X + D K _ {d e f} X) ^ {T}) \right\} < \operatorname{trace} (Z) < \gamma^ {2} \tag {8}$$

Based on Schur’s formulation for partitioned matrices [44], inequality (8) is rewritten as (9) and (10).

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - Z & C X + D K _ {d e f X} \\ (C X + D K _ {d e f} X) ^ {T} & - X \end{array} \right] <   0 \tag {9}
\operatorname{trace} (Z) < \gamma^ {2} \tag {10}$$

Considering that the gain $K _ { d e f } = K _ { \mathrm { H - 2 } } = W X ^ { - 1 }$ , (7) and (9) now become (13) and (14), and the optimization problem to reduce the disturbance impact can be written as (11)-(14).
