Where $z_{d}$ is the desired altitude, $e_z$ and $\dot{e}_z$ represent the tracking error and its derivative respectively.

The objective of the controller is to enforce the sliding mode into the surface where $S_{z}=0$ . In order to minimize the tracking error a Lyapunov based control is used.

Let us consider the following Lyapunov candidate function:

$$V _ {1} (S _ {z}) = \frac {1}{2} S _ {z} ^ {2} \tag {12}$$

Its first derivative is

$$\dot {V} _ {1} (S _ {z}) = S _ {z} \dot {S} _ {z} \tag {13}$$

If $\dot{V}_1(S_z) \leq 0$ , then, Lyapunov asymptotic stability will be guaranteed.

Let's choose the surface $S_{z}$ so that $\dot{S}_{z} = -KS_{z}$ , $K$ is positive constant, which implies

$$\dot {V} _ {1} (S _ {z}) = S _ {z} \dot {S} _ {z} = - K S _ {z} ^ {2} \tag {14}$$

Then the asymptotic stability condition is satisfied

$$\dot {V} _ {1} (S _ {z}) = - K S _ {z} ^ {2} \leq 0$$

Using equations (9), (10) and (11) the derivative of the sliding mode surface can be written as:

$$\dot {S} _ {z} = \frac {\cos \theta \cos \phi}{m} U _ {1} - g - \ddot {z} _ {d} + \lambda_ {z} \dot {e} _ {z} (1 5)$$

To guarantee the stability, the condition $\dot{S}_{z} = -KS_{z}$ implies

$$U _ {1} = \frac {m}{\cos \theta \cos \phi} (\ddot {z} _ {d} - \lambda_ {z} \dot {e} _ {z} - K S _ {z} + g) \tag {16}$$

Since the parameter $m$ is supposed unknown, it is replaced by its estimates $\widehat{m}$ in the control law

$$U _ {1} = \frac {\hat {m}}{\cos \theta \cos \phi} (\ddot {z} _ {d} - \lambda_ {z} \dot {e} _ {z} - K S _ {z} + g) (1 7)$$

The closed loop dynamics become:

$$m \dot {S} _ {z} + K S _ {z} = - \widetilde {m} (\ddot {z} _ {d} - \lambda_ {z} \dot {e} _ {z} + g) (1 8)$$

Where: $\widetilde{m} = m - \widehat{m}$

Equation (18) shows that, if the estimation error converges to zero then the tracking error dynamics tends to zero exponentially.

On-line estimation of the unknown parameter m is related to the control law. Therefore, a Lyapunov based adaptation mechanism is applied to guarantee the asymptotic convergence.

Let the Lyapunov function candidate be given by

$$V _ {2} (S _ {z}, \widetilde {m}) = \frac {1}{2} m S _ {z} ^ {2} + \frac {1}{2 \gamma_ {z}} \widetilde {m} ^ {2} \tag {19}$$

Where $\gamma_{z}$ is an adaptation gain. The idea is to choose the adaptation law of $\widehat{m}$ such that

$$\dot {V} _ {2} (S _ {z}, \widetilde {m}) \leq 0\dot {V} _ {2} (S _ {z}, \widetilde {m}) = m S _ {z} \dot {S} _ {z} + \frac {1}{\gamma_ {z}} \widetilde {m} \dot {\widetilde {m}}= - S _ {z} [ (\ddot {z} _ {d} - \lambda_ {z} \dot {e} _ {z} + g) \widetilde {m} - K S _ {z} ] - \frac {\widetilde {m} \widehat {m}}{\gamma_ {z}}$$

If the adaptation law is defined by

$$\widehat {m} = - \gamma_ {z} S _ {z} (\ddot {z} _ {d} - \lambda_ {z} \dot {e} _ {z} + g) \tag {20}$$

Then

$$\dot {V} _ {2} (S _ {z}, \widetilde {m}) = - K S _ {z} ^ {2} \leq 0$$

All the rest control and adaptation laws are obtained by following the same steps shown above.
