Fig. 5. Summary of RL training runs in eNMPC. Each training configuration is run ten times with different random seeds. We average the running score over the previous 30 episodes. The lines represent individual training runs. The constant dashed green line represents the median maximum performance when training the MLP policies for 20,000 episodes. Additionally, we highlight the highest average running score achieved by a policy type (star for Koopman-RL, dot for MLP). Best viewed in color.

Tab. 4. eNMPC: test results over a single roughly half-year long test episode with electricity price data from March 26, 2018 to September 30, 2018. Costs are stated relative to steady-state production. The constraint violation column reports the percentage of control steps that result in constraint violations.

<table><tr><td></td><td>Cost</td><td>Constr. viols. [%]</td><td>Avg. storage level [h]</td></tr><tr><td>MLP</td><td>0.91</td><td>0.24</td><td>0.80</td></tr><tr><td>Koopman-SI</td><td>0.90</td><td>8.84</td><td>0.28</td></tr><tr><td>Koopman-RL</td><td>0.94</td><td>0.22</td><td>5.32</td></tr></table>

To identify which part of the autoencoder model was modified to what extent during the refinement, we combine the encoder of one model with the decoder of the other model, i.e., the encoder of the Koopman-SI model with the decoder of the Koopman-RL model and vice versa. As can be seen from the lower part of Table 5, the combinations of encoders and decoders from different models still yield low reconstruction losses, suggesting that the Koopman models before and after the refinement operate with very similar lifted spaces. Interestingly, using the encoder of the Koopman-SI model together with the decoder of the Koopman-RL model produces almost identical results to using the full Koopman-SI autoencoder. Conversely, using the Koopman-RL encoder in conjunction with the Koopman-SI decoder produces very similar results to using the full Koopman-RL autoencoder. These observations indicate that the end-to-end refinement affected the encoder to a larger extent than the decoder.
