Next, we comment on the ??-ISS of the overall interconnected system using the small-gain like condition in Theorem 4.4. First, we evaluate the interconnection terms such a s ?? ??11?? ??2 = 2 and ?? ??12?? ??2 = 2 that are bounded. Similarly, ?? ??21?? ??1 $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \partial f _ { 1 1 } } { \partial \xi _ { 2 } } = 2 } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \partial f _ { 1 2 } } { \partial \xi _ { 2 } } = 2 } \end{array}$ = 3 and $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \partial f _ { 2 1 } } { \partial \xi _ { 1 } } = 3 } \end{array}$ ?? ??22?? ??1 = 3. To satisfy the small gain condition in theorem 4.4, ??1 and ??3 for this numerical example are evaluated using $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \partial f _ { 2 2 } } { \partial \xi _ { 1 } } = 3 } \end{array}$ $4 . 4 , \gamma _ { 1 }$ $\gamma _ { 3 }$ the property ??2 of matrix measure as given in (7). As this is a scalar system, $| | F _ { 2 } | | = 2 , | | G _ { 2 } | | = 3$ , and the absolute values of the matrix measure $| \mu ( F _ { 1 } ) | \stackrel { - } { = } 4 , | \mu ( G _ { 1 } ) | = 8$ . The gains are evaluated as $\gamma _ { 1 } = 0 . 5$ and $\gamma _ { 3 } = 0 . 3 7 5$ . Hence, the small-gain condition $\gamma _ { 1 } \gamma _ { 2 } = 0 . 1 8 7 5 < 1$ is satisfied as in 4.4. To observe the evolution of the variational state corresponding to systems (48) and (49), we allow incremental changes in input $u _ { 1 }$ and $u _ { 2 }$ , respectively. From Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, it can be observed that the variational states $\delta \xi _ { 1 } ( t )$ and $\delta \xi _ { 2 } ( t )$ corresponding to both $\mathcal { G }$ and H systems exponentially converge to a bound. The dotted curves in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 represent the corresponding analytical bound as in (38),(39). The bound depends on the values of the variational input $\bar { | } | \delta u _ { 1 } ( \tau ) | | _ { i }$ ?? and $| | \bar { \delta } \boldsymbol { u } _ { 2 } ( \tau ) | |$ ?? . Therefore, the overall switched system in feedback interconnection is ??-ISS.
