# 2.2. LA ATTACK TYPES AND ATTACKER MODEL

As mentioned above, LA attacks manipulate actual power consumption to harm the grid [7]. Soltan et al. [7] proposed a family of large-scale static attacks, sudden spikes in load, against the grid using a botnet of compromised high-wattage IoT devices. These attacks only need high-level geographical information on the IoT devices’ distribution in the grid. Their attacks cause frequency instability, increase operation costs, or cause line tripping. The authors found that compromising a small fraction of the available water heaters in a grid is sufficient to disrupt its operation. Moreover, the authors of [8] presented a multi-step static attack based on the grid’s transient conditions. This variation requires the attacker to have the ability to monitor the grid’s transient behavior to launch the attack steps accordingly.

Switching attacks are another form of LA attack that can be launched to excite certain unstable modes present in the grid, e.g., inter-area oscillation [9] [10]. No topology information is required for this attack. However, during the reconnaissance phase, the attacker introduces a chirp signal into the grid using the compromised loads. This signal allows the attacker to monitor the grid’s response to different attack frequencies and calculate the impulse response of the system. From this response, the attacker can now determine the specific frequency that would excite the existing unstable mode. The attacker now switches the compromised loads on/off at this specific frequency. The inter-area oscillation mode was excited by a switching attack in [9] and [10]. However, the largest impact of the switching attack can only be achieved when it is done at a frequency of an existing unstable mode.
