# 2.3. RELATED STUDIES

Multiple studies have considered using EV charging to support the power grid in its steady-state operation. The work in [29] for example discusses the scheduling of EV charging at non-unity power factor to inject or draw reactive power into the grid. The reactive power flow is then included in the optimization of the EV charging schedule [29]. This strategy reduced the overall cost of EV integration into the distribution grid and improved voltage steady-state stability [29]. A similar study was performed in [30] in which the bidirectional EV charging is optimized to perform peak shaving for the grid during peak demand times. EVs were also considered in [31] as a virtual distributed storage system to mitigate the intermittency of wind generation. The EV charging is optimized to store excess wind generation and then inject it back into the grid at times when wind generation was lower than expected. Another EV usage to support the power grid was suggested in [32] where the authors suggested a local control scheme for 3-phase EV chargers coupled with photovoltaic inverters to balance 3-phase distribution grids. The EVCSs would draw the power from the lightly loaded phases while the inverters inject power into the highly loaded phases. The authors were able to improve 3 phase balance and reduced the power losses by 28%. Other studies have considered EV-based frequency regulation mechanisms against disturbances caused by renewable energy intermittency [33] [34] [35]. As a result, the control mechanisms in [33] [34] are designed to handle frequency deviations below 0.07Hz. Furthermore, the work performed in [35] is designed to deal with frequency fluctuations below 0.06Hz with the occasional sudden spike or drop in renewable energy output power. As such this study is optimized to deal with a single sudden spike or drop in generation and not persistent LA attacks. On the other hand, in our work, we will utilize the EVs to support the small-signal stability of the transmission grid against persistent LA attacks by treating these attacks as persisting disturbances to be attenuated through the action of our EV-based mitigation scheme.
