# 5.1. UNCERTAINTY AND CONTROLLER STABILITY

In this subsection, we examine the stability of the proposed control strategy in face of the uncertainty of the feedback EV defender load. By modeling this uncertainty into the design of the controller, the value of the matrix $K _ { d e f }$ changes to allow the mitigation scheme to perform well facing these uncertainties. In case there is no uncertainty present, a carefully designed robust controller will achieve an extremely similar response to the original non-robust controller but will outperform it when uncertainty is added to the systems. Fig. 25 presents the response of the worst-performing generator to Attack 3 in the presence of a random uncertainty of ±5% on each of the feedback EV inputs. Fig. 25 demonstrates how the mixed robust controller performs better than a normal mixed controller when the feedback channel is not 100% certain.

The three types of robust controllers were evaluated using MATLAB’s “diskmargin” function to calculate their disk stability [57]. To this end, we consider the system states, x, as the object of our analysis for the sake of having a system with 30 inputs and 30 states. Table 3 demonstrates the stability range of the system when all the inputs are varied independently with an uncertainty ???? presented (48). In (48) j is the index of the input/state and δ is a random complex number such that |δ| < 1 represents the uncertainty in the channel gain and phase. Variable a is the multiplicative gain of the uncertainty and σ represents the skewness of F to shift the probability of the uncertainty in the positive or negative direction.

$$F _ {j} = \frac {1 + a \{(1 - \sigma) / 2 \} \delta_ {j}}{1 - a \{(1 + \sigma) / 2 \} \delta_ {j}} \tag {48}$$

TABLE 3. CONTROLLER STABILITY MARGIN

<table><tr><td>Skew</td><td>σ=-2</td><td>σ=-1</td><td>σ=0</td><td>σ=1</td><td>σ=2</td></tr><tr><td>Controller</td><td>min/max</td><td>min/max</td><td>min/max</td><td>min/max</td><td>min/max</td></tr><tr><td>Robust H-2</td><td>0.01/1.50</td><td>0.01/2.00</td><td>0.18/5.56</td><td>0.53/8.34</td><td>0.67/9.08</td></tr><tr><td>Robust H-∞</td><td>0.20/1.44</td><td>0.29/1.70</td><td>0.41/2.17</td><td>0.61/2.62</td><td>0.71/2.91</td></tr><tr><td>Robust Mixed H-2/∞</td><td>0.01/1.50</td><td>0.01/1.99</td><td>0.18/5.45</td><td>0.52/8.35</td><td>0.68/8.96</td></tr></table>
