In the purview of incremental stability, contractivity of system dynamics is equivalent to the exponential stability of its corresponding variational dynamics [9]. Therefore, the problem is reduced to studying the exponential stability of variational systems, which will be defined appropriately in the subsequent section. To prove the contractivity of the vector field, the dynamics are assumed to be continuously differentiable, which necessitates that the derivatives are continuous. Unfortunately, the currently focused problem violates this assumption because of the switching, and hence, the problem demands to be solved in a different setup. As we have already discussed, the smoothness assumption for the usual contraction analysis is violated, and the dynamics undergo a regularisation process. Regularisation is a transformation adopted for the analysis of non-smooth systems with the help of transition functions (refer to [31, 32] for more details). All convergence analyses are performed using the concept of matrix measure. First, we present some definitions and lemmas necessary to state the main results. These results correspond to the system represented in (1), but in the absence of input, i.e., $u _ { i n t } = u _ { e x t } = 0$ .

Definition 2.3 [17] Given a Piece-wise Smooth Continuous (PWSC) transition function $\zeta : \mathbb { R } \to [ - 1 , 1 ]$ defined as

$$
\zeta (r) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text { for } r \geq 1, \\ \in (- 1, 1) & \text { for } r \in (- 1, 1), \\ - 1 & \text { for } r \leq - 1, \end{array} \right. \tag {4}
$$

and $\frac { d } { d r } \zeta > 0 f o r r \in ( - 1 , 1 )$ .

Definition 2.4 [17] The ??-regularisation of two vector fields $f _ { 1 }$ and $f _ { 2 }$ of PWS system, for parameter $\epsilon > 0$ is given by

$$f _ {\epsilon} (x) = \Psi (x) f _ {1} + \Gamma (x) f _ {2}, \tag {5}$$

where

$$\Psi (x) = \frac {1}{2} \left[ 1 + \zeta \left(\frac {H (x)}{\epsilon}\right) \right] a n d \Gamma (x) = \frac {1}{2} \left[ 1 - \zeta \left(\frac {H (x)}{\epsilon}\right) \right].$$

Functions $\Psi ( x ) \in [ 0 , 1 ] , \Gamma ( x ) \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ such that $\Psi ( x ) + \Gamma ( x ) = 1 , x \in \mathbb { X }$ and $H ( x )$ is a smooth function as mentioned in Definition 2.1.

Definition 2.5 [33] The matrix measure or logarithmic norm $\mu$ of a square matrix ?? is defined as

$$\mu (A) = \lim _ {h \rightarrow 0 ^ {+}} \sup \frac {\left|\left|\left(I _ {n} + h A\right)\right|\right| - 1}{h}. \tag {6}$$
