$$(i d + \rho) \circ \gamma_ {1} \circ (i d + \rho) \circ \gamma_ {3} (r) < r, \forall r \geq 0. \tag {40}$$

Then, the overall feedback interconnection is ??-ISS with respect to the input $( u _ { 1 } , u _ { 2 } )$ . Here, ???? is an identity function.

Remark 4.5 If the gain functions ???? (??) are a linear functions, $i . e . , \gamma _ { l } ( r ) { = } \gamma _ { l } r ,$ , for $l \in \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 \}$ , then the small gain condition in (40) reduces $\upsilon \gamma _ { 1 } \gamma _ { 3 } < 1$ . This condition resembles the standard small-gain results available in the literature. The proof of Theorem 4.4 is readily inspired from the standard small gain theorem for nonlinear interconnected systems [22]. In [22](Theorem 2.1), it uses the input-output practical stability(IOpS) and the property of unboundedness observability(UO), to comment on the IOpS of the interconnection. The resulting condition is a generalised small-gain relation as given in (40). If the output is the same as the state, and the practical stability margin is assumed to be zero, then the concept of IOpS reduces to ISS. In our result, one of the contrasting factors is that instead of individual subsystems being simple nonlinear systems, we consider nonlinear state-dependent switched systems. One more standout difference is that instead of looking at the evolution of the state(with respect to the equilibrium), we are interested in analysing the incremental state evolution. Therefore, the sketch of the proof remains the same apart from considering the incremental state. The necessity of ensuring ISS for individual subsystems modifies to satisfy ??-ISS, which has already been addressed in Theorem 4.1.

Special Cases: It is interesting to highlight two special cases of Theorem 4.4 explicitly.

Case-1: In the first case, if there is no external input signal, $\mathrm { i . e . , } u _ { 1 } = u _ { 2 } \equiv 0$ , we conclude that the overall interconnected system is globally incrementally stable (??-GAS).
