These examples, however, should not overweigh the advantages introduced by the smart technologies incorporated into the smart grid. One such technology is the EV and its charging infrastructure. Faced with the presented reality of the grid’s vulnerability to LA attacks, we intend to create an LA attack mitigation scheme that takes advantage of the EVs’ unique properties that are ideal for such a purpose. EVs can support the power grid by acting as distributed battery storage as well as distributed generators owing to the Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) power flow capability in new EV Charging Stations (EVCSs). These EV loads are also spread throughout the power grid such that their distribution covers all load buses. This widespread distribution makes EVs optimal for usage in a wide area controller. This distribution also means that the EVs are collocated with the other system loads that will be used by adversaries for LA attacks. This colocation gives EVs an edge since the disturbances can be efficiently eliminated at their source bus with minimal propagation to the rest of the grid. Finally, EVs have another advantage over generators when used to mitigate fast switching attacks, which is the speed at which EVs can change their load. Turbine generators are rotating machines, and their reaction times are determined by their size, type, weight, and control mechanisms and are usually in the order of several seconds [16] [17]. On the other hand, EVCSs are based on bidirectional power converters [18] that can change their charging rate and toggle between on, off, and V2G instantly [17] in the order of 1ms. This fast reaction time is needed to react to LA attacks especially those initiated from converter-based IoT loads.

Previous studies that have considered using EV loads to support the power grid fall short of achieving the mitigation capabilities suggested in this study. Most of these studies, some of which are discussed in Section 2, focus on using EVs to support the power grid during its steady-state operation. Other studies use EVs passively for load balancing [19].
