To form the empirical loss $\widehat { \mathcal { L } } ( y _ { \theta } , p _ { \sigma } )$ , we employ 60000 points in Ω and 5000 points on $\partial \Omega .$ drawn i.i.d. from U(Ω) and $U ( \partial \Omega )$ , respectively. These numbers are determined in a trial-and-error manner. We employ 60000 Adam iterations for OSNN with a learning rate 1e-3, halved after every 6000 iterations; and 2000 Adam iterations for each PDE solve in AONN, with a learning rate $1 0 ^ { - 3 }$ for the first subproblem (primal PDE, adjoint PDE and gradient descent), and then switch to $1 0 ^ { - 4 }$ for the remaining sub-problems. For ALM, we employ 3000 iterations for each subproblem, with learning rate $1 0 ^ { - 3 }$ for the first and also halved after every 6000 iterations. The relative errors of the approximate state $y ^ { * }$ and control $u ^ { * }$ are presented in Table $2 ( \mathrm { a } )$ . The computing time (in second) is 4.28e3, 5.84e3 and 4.47e3 for OSNN, AONN, and ALM, respectively. These numbers should be interpreted only indicatively due to the presence of other influencing factors. Each subproblem in AONN does not require accurate resolution in the early stage: it takes only 600 iterations for each PDE solve, which is far less than that for OSNN and ALM. Table $2 ( \mathrm { a } )$ shows that the choice can ensure accurate solutions with 200 gradient descent steps. OSNN and AONN take comparable computing time, but the approximate control of AONN converges much slower. Nonetheless, all three methods require many iterations to reach satisfactory results, and it is imperative to develop customized algorithms for these solvers and to further improve their accuracy. This phenomenon has been widely reported for standard neural PDE solvers [29, 50, 8].

Table 2: Numerical results for the examples.
