In the literature, several neural solvers have been proposed for elliptic optimal control problems. One class of methods is based on penalty, including standard penalty method (soft constraint) [41], and augmented Lagrangian method [35]. The idea is to transform the PDE-constrained optimization into an unconstrained one by penalizing the PDE residual. However, the resulting optimization problem becomes increasingly illconditioned (and hence more challenging to optimize) as the penalty weight increases [7, 35], but imposing the constraint accurately does require a large weight. Moreover, the handling of multiple constraints is nontrivial. The augmented Lagrangian method can partly alleviate ill-conditioning. The second class of methods employs the adjoint technique [12], which solves the adjoint equation and computes the derivative of the reduced objective with respect to the control. One method in the class is the direct adjoint looping (DAL) [34, 24], which iteratively updates the control using a gradient descent scheme with the gradient computed via the adjoint technique. Based on DAL, Yin et al [51] proposed the adjoint-oriented neural network (AONN). It is an NN realization of the adjoint-based gradient descent scheme, and involves solving the state and adjoint and then updates the control sequentially. The authors reported excellent empirical performance on a number of challenging settings, e.g., (parametric) Navier-Stokes problem. See Section 2.4 for further descriptions. Demo et al [14] proposed an approach that augments NN inputs with parameters so that the KKT system and neural networks are combined for parametric optimal control problems; see also [2]. Recently, Song et al [47] develop an NN and ADMM based approach for efficiently solving nonsmooth PDE constrained optimization. In comparison, we develop an easy-to-implement numerical scheme, thoroughly analyze its convergence, and evaluate the method against existing deep-learning based techniques. Note that there is also a rich literature on using DNNs for other types of optimal control problems; see, e.g., the references [42, 39, 8, 53] for an incomplete list and references therein.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we describe the details of OSNN for three cases. In Section 3, we present an error analysis for both constrained and unconstrained cases, which relies on technical estimates in the appendix. Finally, in Section 4, we present numerical examples to illustrate the method. Throughout c denotes a generic constant which may change at each occurrence, but it is always independent of NN parameters.
