# IV. OBSERVER DESIGN

Second-order sliding-mode super-twisting observer is proposed, in this paper, to ensure that the observer error converges to zero in finite time. Since the separation principle theorem is proved in [25], the observer can be designed separately from the controller. To ensure the separation principle for finite time convergent observers, designers prefer to switch on the controller only when the estimation error converges to zero [26].

The proposed super-twisting observer has the form

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\widehat {x}} _ {1} = \widehat {x} _ {2} + v _ {1} \\ \dot {\widehat {x}} _ {2} = f (t, x _ {1}, \widehat {x} _ {2}, U) + v _ {2} \end{array} \right. \tag {21}
$$

Where $\widehat{x}_1$ and $\widehat{x}_2$ are the state estimates, and $\nu_1, \nu_2$ are the correction variables or the output error injections:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} v _ {1} = \alpha \left| x _ {1} - \hat {x} _ {1} \right| ^ {\frac {1}{2}} s g n (x _ {1} - \hat {x} _ {1}) \\ v _ {2} = \beta s g n (x _ {1} - \hat {x} _ {1}) \end{array} \right. \tag {22}
$$

Taking $\tilde{x}_1 = x_1 - \hat{x}_1$ and $\tilde{x}_2 = x_2 - \hat{x}_2$ we obtain the error equations:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\tilde {x}} _ {1} = \tilde {x} _ {2} - \alpha | \tilde {x} _ {1} | ^ {\frac {1}{2}} s g n (\tilde {x} _ {1}) \\ \dot {\tilde {x}} _ {2} = F (t, x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \hat {x} _ {2}) - \beta s g n (\tilde {x} _ {1}) \end{array} \right.
$$

And

$$F (t, x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \hat {x} _ {2}) = f (t, x _ {1}, x _ {2}, U) - f (t, x _ {1}, \hat {x} _ {2}, U) + \xi (t, x _ {1}, x _ {2})$$

Suppose that states are bounded, then the existence of a constant $f^{+}$ insured such that the inequality

$$| F (t, x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \hat {x} _ {2}) | < f ^ {+}$$

Holds for any possible $t, x_1, x_2$ and $|x_2| \leq \sup |x_2|$

The observer design parameters $\alpha$ and $\beta$ in Eq. (22), could be selected according to partial knowledge of system dynamics. Convergence of the observer states $\hat{x}_{1}$ ; $\hat{x}_{2}$ to the system state variables $x_{1}, x_{2}$ occurs in finite time, according to the theorem in [27].

Defining the flowing states variables, $x_{1}$ , $x_{2}$ where $x_{1} = z$ and $x_{2} = \dot{z}$ , $x_{1}$ represent the altitude and $x_{2}$ the altitude velocity. Altitude dynamics can be described by

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} _ {1} = x _ {2} \\ \dot {x} _ {2} = \frac {\cos \phi \cos \theta}{m} U _ {1} - g + \xi (t, x _ {1}, x _ {2}) \end{array} \right.
$$

The proposed super-twisting observer has the form:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\widehat {x}} _ {1} = \widehat {x} _ {2} + \alpha | x _ {1} - \hat {x} _ {1} | ^ {\frac {1}{2}} s g n (x _ {1} - \hat {x} _ {1}) \\ \dot {\widehat {x}} _ {2} = \frac {\cos \phi c o s \theta}{m} U _ {1} - g + \beta s g n (x _ {1} - \hat {x} _ {1}) \end{array} \right. \tag {23}
$$

Super-twisting sliding mode observers for the rest states are implemented in the same way as Eq. (23).
