Using RL to train dynamic surrogate models promises to combine the aforementioned advantages of model-based policies with the typical advantage of end-to-end learning over SI, i.e., the task-optimal performance of the resulting model. To train dynamic surrogate models using RL algorithms, (eN)MPC is viewed as a policy whose control outputs can be differentiated with respect to the parameters of the surrogate model. This requires differentiating a solution point of a parametric optimization problem with respect to the parameters (Fiacco and Kyparisis (1985); Fiacco and Ishizuka (1990); Ralph and Dempe (1995)). Lewis and Vrabie (2009) and Lewis et al. (2012) show that RL can be used to learn goal-directed dynamic models by connecting RL to the linear quadratic regulator (Brunton and Kutz (2022)), a model predictive feedback controller for control settings with linear dynamics and quadratic cost functions. Amos et al. (2018) and Gros and Zanon (2019) study how to learn MPC controllers end-to-end by viewing these as differentiable policies. Amos et al. (2018) use imitation learning (Hussein et al. (2017)), a supervised learning approach aiming to train a control policy through expert demonstrations, instead of RL to learn an NMPC but do not consider control settings with inequality constraints on state variables. Moreover, they learn a parameterized version of the true underlying dynamic equations, which requires an a priori known structure of the system dynamics. Gros and Zanon (2019) use RL in the form of deep Q-learning, a popular RL algorithm for environments with discrete action spaces and the first RL algorithm to claim superhuman performance on an Atari game (Mnih et al. (2013)), to learn linear MPC and eNMPC controllers. However, in the nonlinear case, they focus on learning advantageous parameterizations of the constraints and cost function and only parameterize the dynamic model with a learnable constant added to the transition function. Chen et al. (2019) use both imitation learning and RL together with the differentiable MPC solver by Amos et al. (2018) to learn task-optimal linear dynamic models for HVAC control without constraints on state variables.
