# 2.1. EV NUMBERS AND TECHNOLOGY

The world’s governments have been encouraging the adoption of EVs to reduce the emissions of the transportation sector. As such, we are witnessing exponential growth in EV numbers on the road. This exponential trend is demonstrated by the record EV sales reaching 3.2 million EVs in 2020 [20] and 6.6 million in 2021 [20]. The trend has continued with 10.5 million EV sales in 2022 and an anticipated 14 million EV sales in 2023 according to the IEA [21].

To support this rapid deployment, EVCS manufacturers have been introducing faster and cheaper EVCSs. While Level 2 EVCSs had a rate of 7.2 kW a few years ago, it has now increased to 11 kW [18] and 19 kW. Level 3 fast EVCSs have rates between 40kW and 360 kW [18]. While all Level 3 EVCSs are DC chargers, Level 2 can be AC or DC. Nonetheless, DC chargers are becoming more common owing to their bidirectional inverter/converter circuits [18] that allow higher charging rates and support the V2G functionality. Furthermore, the current EV infrastructure for public EVCSs provides us with the communication and control mechanisms needed for our mitigation scheme. Public EVCSs are connected to a Cloud Management System (CMS) [18] [22] [23]. This CMS utilizes the Open Charge Point Protocol (OCPP) to communicate, monitor, and control all functionalities of the EVCSs in real-time. By utilizing this underlying infrastructure, our control mechanism removes the need for the addition of any new control software or hardware. These EVCSs are connected to the internet through onboard 5 routers. 5G networks are intended to function in areas of high user density and achieve a speed of 10 Gigabits per second (Gbps) and a latency of 1 millisecond [24]. This is the fastest technology currently available to connect widely disbursed users and achieve reliable and fast communication, making it ideal for our fast-reacting EV-based mitigation scheme. Moreover, OCPP specifies the Network Time Protocol (NTP) as the main protocol used to ensure synchronization of the EVCS clocks [25] [26]. NTP ensures the synchronization of the EVCSs’ clocks with a guaranteed accuracy of 10ms over the public Internet [27] and 1ms over a local area network [27].
