Koopman-based MPCs have seen application in various domains due to their favorable balance between high representational capacity and comparatively low computational demand in solving the resulting OCPs. These applications range from ground vehicle (Cibulka et al. (2020)) to air vehicle control (Folkestad and Burdick (2021)), flow control (Arbabi et al. (2018)), and soft robotics (Bruder et al. (2019)). Some contributions have also studied the application of Koopman-based MPCs to control of chemical processes. Narasingam and Kwon (2019) integrate Koopman models with Lyapunovbased MPC, thus guaranteeing controller feasibility and closed-loop stability. Narasingam and Kwon (2020) integrate a priori system knowledge in the choice of the Koopman basis functions and achieve successful data-driven control of a hydraulic fracturing process. Using a learned disturbance estimator, Son et al. (2022b) develop offset-free Koopman Lyapunov-based MPC to compensate for the unavoidable plant-model-mismatch resulting from a finite-dimensional approximation of the Koopman operator. They showcase their approach on the control of a batch pulp digester (Son et al. (2021)). For hybrid systems with differing local dynamics, Son et al. (2022a) develop a hybrid Koopman MPC approach by clustering the training data and by training one local Koopman model for each cluster. Furthermore, Albalawi and Hameed (2023) demonstrate the efficacy of Koopman-based economic MPC on a continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR) case study.
