# 3.2. OBSERVER DESIGN

Since our EV-based LA attack mitigation strategy relies on full-state feedback control, the utility also needs to choose an appropriate design for the observer gain matrix L. This observer facilitates the accurate recovery and estimation of the grid states ??̂ needed to calculate the feedback control input $\begin{array} { r } { \varDelta P Q _ { E V } = u = K _ { d e f } \hat { x . } } \end{array}$ With the introduction of the gain $K _ { d e f }$ and the observer $L ,$ , the state-space (1) becomes (2).

$$\dot {\hat {x}} = A _ {c l} \hat {x} + L (y - \hat {y}) + B _ {d} \omega \tag {2a}y = C _ {c l} x + D _ {d} \omega \tag {2b}$$

where $C _ { c l } = C + D K _ { d e f }$ is the closed-loop form of matrix C that relates the system outputs to its states. $B _ { c l }$ and $D _ { c l }$ are $B _ { d }$ and $D _ { d }$ respectively. Given that an accurate observer is based on gain matrix $L ,$ it must be designed to ensure that $( A _ { c l } - L C _ { c l } )$ has stable poles [43]. Therefore, we employ a Linear Quadratic Controller (LQR) [43] as our observer for accurate state recovery. LQR is a control technique that optimizes the balance between the energy of states, and control signals to achieve the desired output accurately. This balance is controlled by the respective weights Q and R of the states and inputs. Q is a square symmetric positive semi-definite matrix and R is a square symmetric definite matrix. The observer gain L is designed as an optimization problem having cost function J:

$$\text { minimize } J = \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} x _ {o} ^ {T} Q x _ {o} + u _ {o} ^ {T} R u _ {o} d t \tag {3}$$

where $x _ { o } = ( y - \hat { y } )$ is the difference between the actual measured outputs and their estimated value, and $u _ { o }$ is the observer output being fed back into the state-space. Given that $Q = Q ^ { T } \geq 0$ and $R = R ^ { T } > 0$ , this problem can be solved by finding S that satisfies the Algebraic Riccati Equation (4)

$$0 = S A _ {o} + A _ {o} ^ {T} S - S B _ {o} R ^ {- 1} B _ {o} ^ {T} S + Q \tag {4}$$

where $A _ { o } = { A _ { c l } } ^ { T } , B _ { o } = { C _ { c l } } ^ { T }$ and $S { = } S ^ { T } \geq 0$ . The detailed derivation of (4) from (3) is omitted for compactness. Equation (4) is quadratic in S and has no trivial solution, but it has a single positive definite solution that makes the observer stable. Thus, the observer gain L is determined as

$$L = - R ^ {- 1} B _ {o} ^ {T} S. \tag {5}$$
