# A. Linear Systems

We first consider the simplest setting with linear systems and i.i.d. Gaussian noise, i.e., $f ( \mathbf { x } ) = \mathbf { A } \mathbf { x }$ and $g ( \mathbf { x } ) = \mathbf { C } \mathbf { x }$ in (1). The state dimension is $n = 1 0$ and the output dimension is $m = 5 .$ . For each source and test system, we generate matrix A with entries sampled uniformly between [0, 1], which is then followed by scaling so that the largest eigenvalue is 0.95. The C matrix is generated with entries sampled uniformly between [0, 1]. The noise covariance are $\sigma _ { \mathbf { w } } ^ { 2 } = 0 . 0 1$ and $\sigma _ { \mathbf { v } } ^ { 2 } = 0 . 0 1$ . Kalman filter and linear autoregressive predictor are used as baselines, where the latter is given by $\hat { \mathbf { y } } _ { t + 1 } = \pmb { \alpha } _ { 1 } \mathbf { y } _ { t } + \pmb { \alpha } _ { 2 } \mathbf { y } _ { t - 1 }$ and the matrix parameters $( \alpha _ { 1 } , \alpha _ { 2 } )$ are updated in an online fashion using the recursive least squares (RLS) with initial covariance taken to be identity. This essentially amounts to solving a regularized least squares problem. The results are presented in Fig. 2(a). We see that after some burn-in time (∼ 20 steps), MOP eventually matches the performance of Kalman filter. This is because the transformer needs to collect certain amount $( { \mathcal { O } } ( n + m ) )$ ) of data to implicitly learn the system dynamics, while Kalman filter, designed with the exact system knowledge, reaches optimality immediately.
