The experimental setting is identical with Example 4.1. In ALM, we enforce the box constraint by including a penalty term with a weight $\mu ^ { \prime } = 0 . 0 1$ , cf. (2.13), and add a multiplier term and update it by Uzawa algorithm. Since the forward solver converges slower, we increase the number of iterations for all methods. The learning rates are halved after every 6000 iterations. The results are reported in Table 2(b) and Fig. 3. Since the optimal control ¯u is non-smooth near the boundary of the constraint active area, ALM and AONN suffer from big errors therein, and AONN has to use a smaller step size. Table 2(b) shows that AONN has a good accuracy of the state approximation with 100 descent steps. For ALM, the projection penalty term requires one extra tunable weight. In Table 2(b), ALM approximates the state accurately, but the control error $e ( u ^ { * } )$ is still large. The computing time (in second) for OSNN, AONN and ALM is 1.56e3, 4.42e3, and 1.70e3. While the errors are larger than others, ALM yields the best cost, implying that the PDE constraint is not well-satisfied. The approximate state $y ^ { * }$ by AONN is less accurate with a slightly better control $u ^ { * }$ . Both OSNN and ALM optimize two variables and thus requires more iterations for the PDE, but the control of OSNN converges faster.

Next we consider a semilinear example.

Example 4.3. Consider the following semilinear $P D E ; - \Delta y + y + y ^ { 3 } = f + u$ in Ω with $y = g$ on $\partial \Omega$ , with u¯ are given the domain $\Omega = ( 0 , 1 ) ^ { 4 }$ $\begin{array} { r } { b y \bar { y } ( x ) = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { 3 } e ^ { x _ { i } ( 1 - x _ { i } ) } \sin ( \pi x _ { i + 1 } ) + e ^ { x _ { 4 } ( 1 - x _ { 4 } ) } \sin ( \pi x _ { 1 } ) } \end{array}$ . Let λ = 0.01. The data yd, g and $f$ are taken such that the exact state y¯ and control , and $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { u } ( x ) = - \lambda ^ { - 1 } \prod _ { i = 1 } ^ { 4 } x _ { i } ( 1 + \cos ( \pi x _ { i } ) ) } \end{array}$
