# 3.5. ROBUST CONTROLLER UNDER UNCERTAIN EV FEEDBACK LOAD

In this subsection, we address the issue of uncertainty of the EV load. This uncertainty can arise from different sources. The first is the user behavior that can be accurately estimated but never guaranteed by the utility. The second source of uncertainty arises from the possibility of attackers targeting the EV ecosystem. Attackers might be able to compromise part of the connected EVs while giving the utility the impression they are secure. This would mean that the control signal would reach less secure EVs than the utility intended. The third source of uncertainty can be introduced in the system by the clustering method we suggest below as a privacy-preserving measure. Clustering is the only case where uncertainty can be positive. These three types of uncertainties are modeled as an uncertain matrix ∅ in the feedback loop after the output of the controller $K _ { d e f }$ which changes the value of the EV load to $\varDelta P Q _ { E V - \varnothing } = u _ { \varnothing } = \varnothing K _ { d e f } \hat { x } = \varnothing u$ . As a result, the state-space representation in (1) becomes (20).

$$\dot {x} = A x + B \emptyset K _ {d e f} \widehat {x} + B _ {d} \omega \tag {20}$$

By rewriting $\varDelta P Q _ { E V - \emptyset }$ as a function of the original input ??, (20) becomes (13) which is restructured through (22) to become the state-space representation in (23) which models the uncertainty in the feedback signal as uncertainty in matrix B.

$$\dot {x} = A x + B \emptyset u + B _ {d} \omega \tag {21}\dot {x} = A x + \{B + B (\emptyset - I) \} u + B _ {d} \omega \tag {22}\dot {x} = A x + (B + \Delta B) u + B _ {d} \omega \tag {23}$$

It is worth noting that since the utility is responsible for this mitigation scheme, it is considered that the system parameters are accurate, thus the uncertainty in matrix A is zero. The matrix uncertainties are written as (24) and (25).

$$\Delta A = H F E _ {1} \tag {24}\Delta B = H F E _ {2} \tag {25}$$

Where H, $E _ { 1 }$ , and $E _ { 2 }$ are known quantities while F is an uncertain matrix. Since ∆?? is zero, then $E _ { 1 }$ is zero and excluded from further calculations. H is usually chosen to be an identity matrix. The uncertain matrix F can be written in the form of (26) if it satisfies condition (27).

$$F = \delta_ {1} F _ {1} + \delta_ {2} F _ {2} + \dots + \delta_ {k} F _ {k} \tag {26}F F ^ {T} \leq I \tag {27}$$
