The study of interconnected systems has been of prime importance in the analysis and design of complex systems [20]. Moreover, when the subsystems are switched systems, analysis becomes further complicated [21]. A small-gain theorem is useful for analysing and designing non-switched interconnected nonlinear systems [22], [23]. However, there has been limited work on applying this theorem to switched interconnected nonlinear systems [24]. Recently, a Lyapunov theory-based small-gain theorem for time-dependent switched feedback interconnected systems was studied in [25]. However, the convergence results are asymptotic with respect to the equilibrium point. Furthermore, the ISS small-gain theorem has been utilised to analyse the stability of hybrid integrator systems (plant is linear, controller is a hybrid system), which can be viewed as feedback interconnections of simpler subsystems [26]. Despite some attempts, the incremental stability of the interconnected system has been sparsely studied and still lacks generality [27]. If the interconnected systems are nonlinear switched systems, it adds to the challenges. Preserving the usual notion of stability for the overall system is difficult for nonlinear switched systems. However, incremental stability using contraction has the strong property of preserving contractivity over interconnection. To the best of our knowledge, there has been no attempt to study the incremental stability of interconnected switched nonlinear systems.

Motivated by the above considerations, we derive sufficient conditions in terms of matrix measures to ensure incremental input-to-state stability of interconnected switched systems. In this paper, we mainly consider two classes of interconnections, namely the feedback connection and the cascade, to state the results. In both cases of interconnection, bimodal switched systems are considered. Finally, the ??-ISS result corresponding to the general interconnection of ??-bimodal switched subsystems is presented. The key highlights of the paper can be encapsulated as follows:
