Contributions: Our first contribution is numerically demonstrating the capabilities of MOP. The experiments show that MOP matches the optimal performance given by the Kalman filter for different unseen linear systems and is able to handle challenging settings such as non-i.i.d. noise, time-varying dynamics, and nonlinear quadrator systems. Complementing our empirical contributions, we theoretically establish that the excess risk incurred by MOP decays with rate O(1/ MT ) where T is the prediction time horizon, under appropriate assumptions. Motivated by our theoretical analysis, we identify a class of systems with slow mixing properties, for which MOP encounters difficulties in learning the optimal estimator. Our experiments also indicate some limitations of MOP in the presence of distribution shifts.

Related Work: Compared with earlier neural sequence models, transformers [5] incorporate the attention mechanism that is able to better keep longer memories thus can handle longer input sequences. As a result, a transformer can be trained to perform a variety of tasks rather than a single task [7]–[9], which is known as in-context learning and serves as the foundation of MOP training in our work. Particularly, transformers are shown to be able to in-context learn linear functions [10]; in-context reinforcement learning is studied in [11]. Recent work in [6] studies theoretical properties of transformer-based in-context learning for both i.i.d. data and data with Markovian temporal dependencies (i.e., state trajectories), and provides guarantees in terms of excess risk and transfer risk. Compared with [6], we (i) consider the system output prediction problem with data being non-Markovian, (ii) demonstrate the versatility of MOP through evaluations on several challenging scenarios, and (iii) study scenarios that can lead to degradations in MOP performance.
