# I. INTRODUCTION:

Quantum probability theory [1–3] predicts the behavior of many physical systems with unprecedented accuracy. When modelling such systems, it is important to be able to characterize their statistical properties. The fundamental element of quantum statistical mechanics is the density operator. Once determined, this operator reveals the statistics of quantum observables in a dynamical quantum system. This note concentrates on the inference of the density operator for a generic closed quantum system described by a Liouville–von Neumann master equation. Prior work on linear observers for quantum systems was done in [4]. Developments in quantum measurement and the quantum Kalman filter appear in [5, 6] with theoretical issues and foundations in [7]. Linear observability of quantum systems was studied in [8]. Clouâtré and Balas et al. give a full characterization of the linear observability of closed quantum systems with positive operator-valued measure (POVM) output in [9] and provide a canonical quantum state observer. Since the original work of [4], the Hilbert metric projection of a square matrix onto the set of quantum density operators has been studied. In particular, it can be paired with a linear quantum state observer to produce an exponentially convergent nonlinear observer which ensures the observer’s state is a valid quantum density operator. Recently [10] derived a closed-form solution of the metric projection making said nonlinear observers realizable. Now that these types of observers have been unlocked, questions regarding quantum information theoretic properties of the quantum state observer should be studied. Specifically, what quantities of information can be efficiently estimated for a quantum system in an unknown state? Answering this question could lead to additional practical uses of quantum state observers in quantum networks and quantum metrology which rely heavily on information-theoretic ideas [11, 12]. There are numerous quantum information-theoretic quantities, e.g. the von Neumann entropy, quantum relative entropy, and quantum Fisher information.
