# A. Koopman Operator Theory

Koopman operator theory defines a way to transform any nonlinear dynamical system into an infinite-dimensional linear system [1]. Suppose we have an uncontrolled discretetime nonlinear dynamical system defined as

$$x _ {k + 1} = \boldsymbol {f} (x _ {k}), \tag {1}$$

where $x _ { k } \in \mathcal { M } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the system state, k is the time index, and f is the function that evolves the states through state space. We then define observables (unrelated to observability from control theory), which here are real-valued functions of the system state: $g : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R }$ . The Koopman operator, K, is defined such that, for any observable function $^ { g , }$

$$\mathcal {K} g = g \circ \boldsymbol {f}, \tag {2}$$

where ◦ is the composition operator. We can now apply this operator to the discrete-time system defined previously to arrive at:

$$\mathcal {K} g (x _ {k}) = g (\boldsymbol {f} (x _ {k})) = g (x _ {k + 1}). \tag {3}$$

Equation (3) shows that the Koopman operator propagates an observable function of any state, $g ( x _ { k } )$ , to the next time step.

It is not practical to apply the infinite-dimensional operator, so several methods have been developed to select a useful finite-dimensional Koopman observable space [3], [4], [10], [13]. Since it is non-trivial to select a set of observable functions that span a Koopman invariant subspace, we use EDMD [14] to find finite-dimensional approximations of the Koopman operator. EDMD involves lifting time-series data $x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { M }$ into higher-dimensional space by selecting a set of observable functions and applying them to each $x _ { k }$ . Then, a linear matrix is fit to the higher-dimensional system. It is common to consider observable functions such as higherorder polynomials, radial basis functions, trigonometric functions, etc. [13], [15]. Note: in this work, we include the identity function $g ( x ) = x$ as an observable function (see section II C). We refer readers to Brunton et al. [16] for an in-depth study of Koopman operator theory.
