Proposition 3.1. Let H be a d-dimensional Hilbert space, let $A \in \mathrm { H } ( \mathcal { H } )$ be a Hermitian operator, and let $\rho \in { \mathrm { H } } _ { \geq } ( \mathcal { H } )$ be a semi-definite positive Hermitian operator. Let $f : \mathbb { R } \to \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ be a nonnegative convex function. Then the map $A \in \operatorname { H } ( { \mathcal { H } } ) \mapsto \operatorname { T r } [ f ( A ) \rho ] \in \mathbb { R }$ is convex, and it is strictly convex when f is, and ρ is definite positive.

Proof. Let $t \in ( 0 , 1 )$ and let $A , B \in \operatorname { H } ( { \mathcal { H } } )$ be Hermitian. Consider the orthonormal basis $\{ | \phi _ { i } \rangle \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { d }$ that diagonalizes $t A + ( 1 - t ) B$ and write $f ( t A + ( 1 - t ) B )$ a s

$$f (t A + (1 - t) B) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} f (\langle \phi_ {i} | t A + (1 - t) B | \phi_ {i} \rangle) | \phi_ {i} \rangle \langle \phi_ {i} |.$$

We can compute the $\mathrm { T r } [ f ( t A + ( 1 - t ) B ) \rho ] = \mathrm { T r } [ \rho f ( t A + ( 1 - t ) B ) ]$ ] directly as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \operatorname{Tr} [ f (t A + (1 - t) B) \rho ] = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| \rho f (t A + (1 - t) B) | \phi_ {i} \rangle = \\ = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} f (\langle \phi_ {i} | t A + (1 - t) B | \phi_ {i} \rangle) \langle \phi_ {i} | \rho | \phi_ {i} \rangle , \\ \end{array}
$$

which due to the convexity of f can be bounded from above by

$$\leq t \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} f (\langle \phi_ {i} | A | \phi_ {i} \rangle) \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| \rho | \phi_ {i} \rangle + (1 - t) \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} f (\langle \phi_ {i} | B | \phi_ {i} \rangle) \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| \rho | \phi_ {i} \rangle ,$$

and the inequality is strict if f is strictly convex and $\rho$ is definite positive.

Now, see that due to Operator Jensen’s Inequality (e.g., Theorem 1.2 in [19]) we can use that $f ( \left. \phi _ { i } \right| \cdot \left| \phi _ { i } \right. ) \leq \left. \phi _ { i } \right| f ( \cdot ) \left| \phi _ { i } \right.$ , and thus

$$\mathrm{Tr} [ f (t A + (1 - t) B) \rho ] \leq t \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| f (A) \left| \phi_ {i} \right\rangle \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| \rho \left| \phi_ {i} \right\rangle + (1 - t) \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {d} \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| f (B) \left| \phi_ {i} \right\rangle \left\langle \phi_ {i} \right| \rho \left| \phi_ {i} \right\rangle .$$
