To address these issues, in this paper we propose a sliding mode control design on the Lie group S3 using unit quaternions. The proposed sliding subgroup enables us to define a new sliding variable with geometric interpretations and allows us to design tracking controllers with stronger robustness properties. The almost global asymptotic stability of the desired equilibrium in the closed-loop system is shown by using the Lyapunov analysis. Numerical simulations are also included to compare this geometric controller with a non-geometric controller designed based on a conventional sliding variable in Euclidean space under the uncertainty in the inertia matrix and noisy measurements. Compared to the group $S O ( 3 )$ , the unit quaternions have the advantage of easier manipulation for the implementation of control laws. The main contributions of this paper are the design of sliding mode controllers on the unit quaternion group to track a desired attitude and rigorous proof of the stability of the proposed scheme. Instead of $\hat { S } ^ { 3 } \times \mathrm { R } ^ { 3 }$ (Espindola & Tang 2023b), where $\mathrm { R ^ { 3 } }$ is the tangent space at the group identity, the sliding mode control design is developed directly on the state space defined by the tangent bundle $\check { S } ^ { 3 } \times T _ { q } S ^ { 3 }$ . This allows us to explore the Lagrangian dynamics for unit quaternions in the controller design. Towards this end, the state manifold of the Lagrangian dynamics based on quaternions that describe the rotational motion of a rigid body is first shown to be a Lie group under a properly defined group operation. Then a Lie subgroup embedded in the Lie group is designed with the desired property to asymptotically stabilize the identity $\bar { 1 } \in S ^ { 3 }$ of the quaternions group. Finally, an attitude-tracking control law is devised based on the proposed sliding subgroup and the intrinsic error defined on the Lie groups.
