Here $\hat { \Phi } ( x _ { k + 1 } )$ is the predicted observable defined in Equation 14, where K and B are calculated recursively using the least-squares method as in Equation 13, and $\Phi ( x _ { k + 1 } )$ are the observables calculated using the true data.

The data generation pipeline for the batch training can be seen in Algorithm 2. It can be noted that to collect data, the system is excited using random control input (+1 or -1). Also, random Gaussian noise is added to the training data to test the effectiveness of the proposed framework.

Algorithm 1 Learning Koopman and Input Matrix   
Input: X,Y,u training data, batch size $b_{s}$ , $Epoch_{max}$ Method

1: for epoch in range( $Epoch_{max}$ ) do
2:    for batch in range(number of batches) do
3:    Sample $b_{s}$ from training, control and label data $X = \{X_{0:k-1}^{i}\}_{i=1}^{b_{s}}, Y = \{Y_{1:k}^{i}\}_{i=1}^{b_{s}}$ $u = \{u_{0:k-1}^{i}\}_{i=1}^{b_{s}}$ 4:    Encode the training and label data and stack the original states onto the encoded states. $\Phi_{x} = [X; \Phi(X)]^{T}, \Phi_{y} = [Y; \Phi(Y)]^{T}$ 5:    Compute the W,V matrices and their transposes. $W = [\Phi_{x}; u], V = \Phi_{y}$ 6:    Use Least Squares to find the KB matrix and extract K and B from KB matrix. $KB = VW^{T} \cdot (WW^{T})^{\dagger}$ 7:    Compute the next state with the linear equation. $\hat{\Phi}_{x+1} = K\Phi_{x} + Bu$ 8:    Apply the loss function L using MSE
9:    Update the model weights and parameters with the Adam optimizer.
10:    end for
11: end for
Output: K and B matrices, trained DNN
