# B. Koopman with Control

In this work, deep neural networks (DNNs) are employed in conjunction with EDMD to approximate the Koopman operator in finite dimensions. First, rather than hand-selecting a set of observable functions, the DNN defines a set of observable functions. Then, the finite-dimensional approximation to the Koopman operator is calculated using leastsquares regression (see Algorithm 1).

For a controlled system, the nonlinear dynamics are propagated with the following mathematical expression:

$$x _ {k + 1} = \boldsymbol {f} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}), \tag {4}$$

where $x _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $u _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ . After lifting the states to higher dimensions with Φ, we wish to find a linear inputoutput system representation

$$\Phi (x _ {k + 1}) \approx \mathbf {K} \Phi (x _ {k}) + \mathbf {B u} _ {k}, \tag {5}$$

where the matrix K approximates the Koopman operator. This is analogous to A and B, the state transition and input matrices, respectively, in linear control systems. The goal of the deep learning framework (Fig. 1) is to learn N observables/lifting functions and calculate the K and B matrices. We choose N such that $N > > n$ and define

$$
\boldsymbol {\Phi} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}) := \left[ \begin{array}{c} \mathbf {x} _ {k} \\ \phi_ {1} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}) \\ \phi_ {2} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}) \\ \vdots \\ \phi_ {N} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}) \end{array} \right], \tag {6}
$$

where $\phi _ { i } : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } , i = 1 , . . . , N$ are the observable functions, which are defined by the DNN. Note that we concatenate the original states $\mathbf { x } _ { k }$ with the observables from the DNN. This helps in two ways: (1) the original states can be easily extracted from the observables for control (see below), and (2) there is no need for a decoder to extract the original, thus saving valuable computational resources. Currently, there is no method to dictate the size of N that would guarantee the best balance between simplicity and accurate approximation of the system; therefore, in most cases, N is chosen empirically through trial and error. Some work has been done to study the size N to find controllable systems [4], [12]. In this work, DNNs are applied with EDMD to find the Koopman operator.
