# Lemma 5 (Stability of the Sliding Subgroup)

The control law (16) in closed loop with the system (7) renders the equilibrium point $s ( \bar { g } ) = 0 _ { 4 \times 1 }$ globally exponentially stable.

PROOF. By the definition of the sliding variable (14) for s(¯g) and the Lagrangian dynamics (7), it has

$$
\begin{array}{l} D (q) \dot {s} = D (q) \ddot {q} + \lambda D (q) (q _ {0} \dot {q} + \dot {q} _ {0} q), \\ = - C (q, \dot {q}) \dot {q} + \bar {\tau} + \lambda D (q) (q _ {0} \dot {q} + \dot {q} _ {0} q). \\ \end{array}
$$

In closed loop with the control law (16) it yields

$$D (q) \dot {s} = - C (q, \dot {q}) s - K _ {r} s. \tag {17}$$

Consider the following Lyapunov function candidate

$$V _ {r} (s) = \frac {1}{2} s ^ {T} D (q) s, \tag {18}$$

which is positive definite and radially unbounded according to Property 11 of Lemma 1.

The time derivative of (18) along the trajectories of system (17) is

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {V} _ {r} = s ^ {T} D (q) \dot {s} + \frac {1}{2} s ^ {T} \dot {D} (q) s \\ = s ^ {T} \left(- C (q, \dot {q}) s - K _ {r} s\right) + \frac {1}{2} s ^ {T} \dot {D} (q) s \\ = - s ^ {T} K _ {r} s \\ \leq - \lambda_ {\min} \left(K _ {r}\right) \| s \| ^ {2} \\ \leq - 2 \frac {\lambda_ {\min} (K _ {r})}{\lambda_ {\max} (M)} V _ {r}, \tag {19} \\ \end{array}
$$

where the skew-symmetry property (12) of Lemma 1 is used. Therefore,

$$\| s (t) \| \leq \left(\frac {\lambda_ {\max} (M)}{\lambda_ {\min} (M)}\right) ^ {1 / 2} \| s (t _ {0}) \| \mathrm{e} ^ {- \frac {\lambda_ {\min} (K _ {r})}{\lambda_ {\max} (M)} (t - t _ {0})},$$

giving that $s  0 _ { 4 \times 1 }$ exponentially (Theorem 4.10, Hassan et al. (2002)).

Remark 6 Due to the double coverage of SO(3) by $S ^ { 3 }$ , both ±q will give the same attitude. Thus, the sliding variable (14) can be changed to $s ( \bar { g } ) = \dot { q } + \lambda ( q _ { 0 } q \pm \bar { 1 } )$ according to the sign of the scalar part q0 of the unit quaternion. Furthermore, to ensure robustness to arbitrarily small noise in measurements, a switching strategy may be used in the control law (Mayhew et al. 2011). For the same reason, the global exponential stability established on the group $\overrightharpoon { T S ^ { 3 } }$ must be interpreted with caution, since there are no continuous control laws that achieve global stability on any compact group due to topological constraints (Bhat & Bernstein 2000).
