# C. Neural Network Architecture

One of the key improvements introduced in this paper is the use of a neural network with a recursive learning framework for learning the Koopman matrix to improve the training speed and reduce the time to predict the next step. Ultimately, more complex dynamical systems would inherently require more complex, larger Koopman operators in a higher dimensional lifted space, and the proposed architecture could facilitate that case.

As a baseline, we compare to an autoencoder, which is a type of NN architecture in which the output is the same as the input with an intermediate state in the middle that is “encoded.” Some of the most common uses of an autoencoder are in image compression, anomaly detection, and data denoising [18], where the encoder transforms the original data into the (generally compressed) encoded space, and the decoder reconstructs the original data from that encoded space. To use the autoencoder architecture with the Koopman operator, we encode the states into a higher dimensional lifted space with the encoder. One purpose of an autoencoder for Koopman operator theory is to recover the original states for control uses, which, in our case, is bypassed by concatenating the original states, as shown earlier.

Figure 1 shows the proposed architecture for the trained network with prediction and control in continuous time. Here, the given initial states pass through the DNN block to form the lifted states. The lifted states are then concatenated with original states $\mathbf { x } _ { k }$ to form the new set of observables Φ. The states are propagated through the control block where

A and $\mathbf { B } _ { c o n }$ are the continuous form of Koopman matrix K and B (see section III B). The predicted states then pass through the correction block, resulting in the original states’ extraction. The entire loop runs until the states are regulated.

The complete algorithm can be seen in Algorithm 1, and the full PyTorch code is on Github1.

The NN is trained using traditional batch training with a custom loss function. The loss is calculated recursively by applying the mean squared error (MSE) and EDMD. The prediction loss function is given as

$$\mathcal {L} _ {\text { pred }} = \frac {1}{N _ {d}} \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {N _ {d}} \left\| \hat {\boldsymbol {\Phi}} (x _ {k + 1}) - \boldsymbol {\Phi} (x _ {k + 1}) \right\| _ {2} ^ {2}. \tag {16}$$
