data-driven method for discovering Koopman eigenfunctions. A modified autoencoder was implemented for identifying nonlinear coordinates on which the dynamics are globally linear. However, the framework handles the continuous spectra with a generalization of Koopman representations, which makes the application of linear control non-trivial. Additionally, even though the models can accurately predict longer intervals than traditional linearization schemes, error propagation still compounds. Junker et al. [5] implemented the prediction step from [2] that reduced the propagation of the error by reevaluating the observable function at every time step through the extraction of the state vector. The authors applied their implementation to a simplified golf robot and produced highly accurate representations that strongly align with the nonlinear dynamics of the robot. They showed that the technique could correctly represent system properties such as stability, controllability, and observability.

In training any neural network, the amount of data that can be generated or gathered is an important factor in how successful the network will be in its prediction. [6] utilizes a deep neural network (DNN) to implement a real-time, online MPC in robotic simulations. Although proving successful in implementation, some shortcomings for some simulations were large training data requirements and the handling of non-Lipschitz terms. Gathering these large amounts of data, especially in real-world scenarios, could be lengthy and difficult, as seen in [7]–[9].
