In [10], Xiao et al. investigated using a deep learningbased EDMD approach to constructing a set of observables able to linearize vehicle dynamics for an autonomous control approach. Compared to other neural network approaches, which often lack interpretability, this method proved to be significantly better at long-term prediction due to its novel, multi-step prediction loss function, similar to the loss function we implemented in this work. A similar example to the problem presented in this paper is the inverted pendulum case. In [11], the authors looked at inverting the pendulum on a cart and then comparing a traditional linearized model to that of a 4 × 4 and 16 × 16-sized Koopman operator. Finding little improvement in the approximation with the larger, higher-dimensional operator was an interesting finding. The operators presented in [11] performed better than traditional linearization techniques for large-angle initial conditions for the pendulum. Zinage et al. [12] developed a learning-based controller using Lyapunov theory. The framework ensures stability. However, system knowledge is required for physicsinspired learning, and the autoencoder needs a large amount of training data.

To this end, the contributions we propose are three-fold: (1) an implementation of a feed-forward NN model for recursive learning of deep-Koopman (RLDK) that removes the necessity for a decoder, therefore improving computation speed, reducing complexity in the model and enhancing the efficiency for real-world use, (2) an implementation of a linear quadratic regulator (LQR) controller for the system to demonstrate the ability of the learned system to be controlled effectively, and (3) a demonstration that the RLDK learning framework is inherently robust to noisy training data as shown in later sections.

Section II provides background information regarding the Koopman operator and its derivation, EDMD and how it is used in the formulation of the Koopman operator, and finally, the neural network architecture used in our work. The pendulum problem used to verify this method is presented in Section III, followed by results and discussions. Section IV concludes this paper.
