This relative entropy is also the distinguishability between ϱ and σ: when $S ( \varrho | | \sigma ) = 0 \ / \mathrm { \Omega }$ the two densities are identical [19, ch. 11.3]. Moreover, the relative entropy is unbounded. That is $S ( \varrho \| \sigma ) \to + \infty$ is allowed. This happens, for instance, when the kernel of $\sigma$ is not contained within that of $\varrho .$ Thus, in general, we should not hope for convergence of the relative entropy. This is elucidated in the following.

Remark 3. Consider the stationary density $\varrho \triangleq \vert 0 \rangle \langle 0 \vert$ alongside the time-dependent density

$$
\boldsymbol {\sigma} (t) \triangleq \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 - e ^ {- t} & 0 \\ 0 & e ^ {- t} \end{array} \right].
$$

Note that $\pmb { \sigma } ( t )  \pmb { \varrho }$ exponentially as $t \to \infty$ . However, at any finite time $t \in ( 0 , \infty )$ the relative entropy $S ( { \pmb \sigma } \| { \pmb \varrho } ) \triangleq$ $+ \infty$ . This example shows that convergence of the relative entropy is a strictly stronger condition than convergence in the Hilbert-Schmidt norm.

Despite this example, under appropriate assumptions, we can prove that the relative entropy is convergent. The second main result of this section is presented below.

Theorem 3. Suppose that $\varrho ( 0 )$ is positive definite. Under the same hypothesis of Theorem 2, the relative entropy $\lvert S ( \underline { { \hat { \varrho } } } \rvert \lvert \varrho ) \rvert$ is essentially exponentially convergent.

Proof. Given $| S ( \hat { \varrho } | | \varrho ) | = | \mathrm { t r } \left( \hat { \varrho } \log \hat { \varrho } \right) - \mathrm { t r } \left( \hat { \varrho } \log \varrho \right) |$ ,
