# I. INTRODUCTION

Linear dynamics are desirable for control due to the applicability of a rigorous control system toolkit to guarantee controllability, observability, and stability for dynamical systems. However, nearly all dynamical systems are inherently nonlinear and thus require linearization techniques or complex nonlinear state estimation and control. Traditional linearization techniques linearize around an operating point, only approximate for small time horizons, and require realtime or recursive techniques, which increase the computational burden and unpredictability of the system. Additionally, nonlinear state estimation and control techniques often cannot guarantee stability without making several assumptions.

Koopman theory, first proposed in 1931 [1], has gained traction over the last few years as a solution for linearizing nonlinear systems. In a nutshell, the theory states that the dynamics of a system can be described linearly by an infinitedimensional Koopman operator; due to its infinite dimensions, for practical use, it is typically approximated using data-driven methods such as Extended Dynamic Mode Decomposition (EDMD) [2]–[4]. Constructing a feed-forward neural network (NN) with the EDMD makes it possible to find an approximate general Koopman operator linearization applicable to a region of state space. Another advantage of using a data-driven method is that it does not require system knowledge, and the nonlinear system can be completely unknown.

Recently, several works have focused on developing datadriven frameworks for linearization and system identification of nonlinear systems. Notably, Lusch et al. [4] presented a

This research was funded in part by and used resources of the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility, which is a DOE Office of Science User Facility supported under Contract DE-AC02-06CH11357.

1Madhur Tiwari and George Nehma are with the Department of Aerospace, Physics and Space Sciences, Florida Institute of Technology, 150 W University Blvd, Melbourne, FL, 32901 USA (mtiwari@fit.edu, gnehma2020@my.fit.edu)

2 Bethany Lusch is a computer scientist with Argonne Leadership Computing Facility, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S Cass Ave, Lemont, IL 60439 USA (blusch@anl.gov)
