# II. QUANTUM STATE OBSERVERS

Linear quantum state observers are used to estimate the state of a quantum dynamical system of the form

$$\dot {\boldsymbol {\varrho}} = - \imath [ \boldsymbol {H}, \boldsymbol {\varrho} ] \tag {1}$$

where $\varrho \in \mathbb { C } ^ { d \times d }$ is the state of the system, d is the dimension of the system, $\pmb { H } \in \mathbb { C } ^ { d \times d }$ is the system Hamiltonian, [A, B] is the commutator of A and B, and $\iota \triangleq \sqrt { - 1 }$ . The state ϱ belongs to the set ${ \mathcal { S } } = \{ { \pmb { \sigma } } \in \mathbb { C } ^ { d \times d } : \operatorname { t r } \left( { \pmb { \sigma } } \right) =$ 1, $\pmb { \sigma } = \pmb { \sigma } ^ { \dagger } , \pmb { \sigma } \succcurlyeq \bf { 0 } \rbrace$ of valid density operators. If the initial (unknown) state of the system is $\varrho _ { \mathrm { 0 } } \triangleq \varrho ( 0 )$ , the goal of a quantum state observer is to produce a estimate ϱ˜(t) which converges to the true state over time:

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \| \tilde {\varrho} (t) - \varrho (t) \| = 0 \tag {2}$$

that are obtained over numerous experiments. The measurement statistics are summarized via a vector $\pmb { y } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N _ { \mathrm { m } } }$ given by

$$
\boldsymbol {y} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} \operatorname{tr} \left(\boldsymbol {M} _ {1} \varrho (t)\right) \\ \operatorname{tr} \left(\boldsymbol {M} _ {2} \varrho (t)\right) \\ \vdots \\ \operatorname{tr} \left(\boldsymbol {M} _ {N _ {\mathrm{m}}} \varrho (t)\right) \end{array} \right] \tag {3}
$$

where $\{ M _ { j } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N _ { \mathrm { m } } } \subset \mathbb { C } ^ { d \times d }$ $N _ { \mathrm { m } }$ is the number of measurement statistics and are observables.

The first question to ask is whether the observer’s task is feasible. This is certainly the case if the systearly observable [14, sec. 14]. If the observables $\{ M _ { j } \} _ { j = 1 } ^ { N _ { \mathrm { m } } }$ duces to that of Clouâtré et al. [9] and the observability can be easily tested using the dynamics in the form of (1).
