Using the notation of the previous section, we will prove the first main result of this note. This result shows that the nonlinear observer developed from control theory in Section II will also produce an essentially exponentially convergent estimate of the von Neumann entropy of $\varrho .$ The proof of Theorem 2 will follow the presentation of two lemmas necessary for the proof.

Theorem 2. Let ${ \hat { \varrho } } ( t )$ be the density estimate produced by the quantum state observer described in the prior section. If the observer gain K has been designed such that the observer error is bounded by the exponential rate $M e ^ { - \sigma t }$ , then the von Neumann entropy of the estimated state ${ \hat { \varrho } } ( t )$ is essentially exponentially convergent to that of the true state ϱ.

Lemma 1 (Fannes’ Inequality, [13, 19]). If $\varrho , \sigma \in { \mathcal { S } }$ $s a t i s f y \ { \epsilon } \triangleq \lVert \underline { { \theta } } - { \pmb \sigma } \rVert _ { 1 } \leq \frac { 1 } { e }$ , where $\| \cdot \| _ { 1 }$ is the trace norm, then

$$| S (\pmb {\varrho}) - S (\pmb {\sigma}) | \leq \epsilon \log d - \epsilon \log \epsilon . \tag {18}$$

Lemma 2. Let $\epsilon > 0$ and $\textstyle a \triangleq 1 - { \frac { 1 } { e } }$ . For all $t \geq 0$ , the following inequality holds

$$t e ^ {- \epsilon t} \leq \frac {1}{\epsilon} e ^ {- a \epsilon t}. \tag {19}$$

This inequality is tight with equality holding when $t \ =$ $\frac { 1 } { \epsilon ( 1 - a ) }$ .

Proof. Note that the inequality trivially holds when $t =$ 0. Hence, let $t > 0$ . The inequality in question holds if and only if the inequality

$$\mu e ^ {- \mu} \leq e ^ {- a \mu}$$

holds with $\mu \triangleq \epsilon t > 0$ . However, this inequality is equivalent to

$$
\begin{array}{l} 1 \leq \frac {1}{\mu} e ^ {(1 - a) \mu} \\ = \frac {(1 - a)}{(1 - a) \mu} e ^ {(1 - a) \mu} \\ = (1 - a) \frac {e ^ {x}}{x} \tag {20} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $x \triangleq ( 1 - a ) \mu$ . The function $\textstyle f ( x ) = { \frac { e ^ { x } } { r } }$ on the domain $( 0 , \infty )$ is convex. Therefore, when $f ^ { \prime } ( x ) = 0$ then $f ( x )$ is minimized. This occurs for $x = 1$ . Thus (20) holds when $\textstyle ( 1 - a ) \geq { \frac { 1 } { e } }$ , which is assumed in the statement of the lemma. Therefore inequality (19) is true. Equality holds when t = 1ϵ(1−a) . $\begin{array} { r } { t = \frac { 1 } { \epsilon ( 1 - a ) } . } \end{array}$ □
