# 3.2 Existence of a minimizer

In this section, we will show the existence of a minimizer of the primal problem (3.2). An important part of the proof will play the following lemma, which gives the necessary compactness properties.

Lemma 3.3 $( \mathcal { F } _ { \varepsilon } ^ { \tau _ { 1 } , \tau _ { 2 } } ( \cdot )$ is coercive). Let $\varepsilon , \tau _ { 1 } , \tau _ { 2 } > 0$ be positive parameters, $\mathcal { H } _ { 1 }$ and $\mathcal { \mathrm { H } } _ { 2 }$ be finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces with dimensions, respectively, $d _ { 1 }$ and $d _ { 2 }$ . Let $C \in \mathrm { H } ( \mathcal { H } _ { 1 } \otimes$ $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } )$ be a Hermitian operator, $\rho \in \mathrm { H } _ { \geq } ( \mathcal { H } _ { 1 } ) , \ \sigma \in \mathrm { H } _ { \geq } ( \mathcal { H } _ { 2 } )$ be Hermitian semi-definite positive operators. Assume that $\{ \Gamma ^ { n } \} _ { n \geq 1 }$ is a sequence in $\mathrm { H } _ { \geq } ( \mathcal { H } _ { 1 } \otimes \mathcal { H } _ { 2 } )$ such that

$$\sup _ {n \geq 1} \{\mathcal {F} _ {\varepsilon} ^ {\tau_ {1}, \tau_ {2}} (\Gamma^ {n}) \} < \infty .$$

Then there exists $\Gamma ^ { 0 } \in \mathrm { H } _ { \geq } ( \mathcal { H } _ { 1 } \otimes \mathcal { H } _ { 2 } )$ and a subsequence $\{ \Gamma ^ { n _ { k } } \} _ { k \ge 1 }$ such that $\Gamma ^ { n _ { k } }$ converges to $\Gamma ^ { 0 }$ in the weak\*-topology.

Proof. Let $\{ \Gamma ^ { n } \} _ { n \geq 1 }$ be a sequence in $\mathrm { H } _ { \geq } ( \mathcal { H } _ { 1 } \otimes \mathcal { H } _ { 2 } )$ such that $\operatorname* { s u p } _ { n \geq 1 } \{ \mathcal { F } _ { \varepsilon } ^ { \tau _ { 1 } , \tau _ { 2 } } ( \Gamma ^ { n } ) \} < \infty$ . It suffices n≥1 to show that $\{ | | \Gamma ^ { n } | | _ { \infty } \} _ { n \geq 1 }$ is bounded and apply the Banach-Alaoglu theorem.

Suppose that $\{ \Gamma ^ { n } \} _ { n \geq 1 }$ is not bounded. Then one can extract a subsequence $\{ \Gamma ^ { n _ { k } } \} _ { k \ge 1 }$ such that ${ \sum } _ { i = 1 } ^ { d _ { 1 } d _ { 2 } } { \lambda } _ { i } ^ { n _ { k } } | { \psi } _ { i } ^ { n _ { k } } \rangle \langle { \psi } _ { i } ^ { n _ { k } } |$ $\vert \vert \Gamma ^ { n _ { k } } \vert \vert _ { \infty }  \infty$ . Then . For every $n _ { k }$ , let us consider the diagonal decompositions $\begin{array} { r l } { \Gamma ^ { n _ { k } } } & { { } = } \end{array}$
