# A. Tracking a harmonic reference

We show results comparing the above MPC formulations to track a harmonic reference with base frequency $w = \pi / 1 6$ , whose period is therefore of T = 32 samples.

We solve (9) using the solver presented in [16], available in the SPCIES toolbox [21, v0.3.11], taking its parameter $\rho = 1 5 0$ . We also solve (9) using version 3.2.3 of the SCS solver [29]. We solve all other MPC formulations using the OSQP solver v0.6.2 [30]. We take the exit tolerances of SPCIES and OSQP as 10−4, and the ones of SCS as $1 0 ^ { - 6 } \cdot$ , since it is the largest tolerance for which we got reasonable suboptimal solutions. Tests are performed on a 2.3GHz Intel i7 in MATLAB using the C-MEX interface of the solvers.

Fig. 2 shows the closed-loop trajectory of the system when tracking an admissible harmonic reference (depicted in red). We show the results when using the HMPC and perMPCT formulations in Fig. 2a and 2b, respectively, as well as the control inputs for both formulations in Fig. 2c. The results indicate that the HMPC controller behaves similarly to the perMPCT controller when the reference is admissible.

Fig. 3 is analogous to Fig. 2 but taking a non-admissible harmonic reference. Fig. 3a shows the result using perMPCT and the HMPC described above, where $T _ { h } = 0 . 1 T _ { e }$ . Fig. 3b shows the results with HMPC if we instead take $T _ { h } = 1 0 0 T _ { e }$ . Finally, Fig. 3c shows the control inputs corresponding to Fig. 3a. Comparing Fig. 3a and 3b we see that when the $T _ { e }$ and $S _ { e }$ terms are dominant, HMPC behaves similarly to perMPCT. However, when $T _ { h }$ and $S _ { h }$ are dominant, the behavior of the closed-loop system changes drastically, as shown in Fig. 3b. The reason behind this behavior is the offset cost function $V _ { h } ,$ which does not penalize the discrepancy between the artificial reference with the desired reference, but instead between the parameters that characterize them, as discussed in Remark 1. This behavior differs from the one expected from classical MPC formulations. However, it might be very interesting for those applications in which maintaining the shape of the trajectory is more important than being closer to the reference at each individual sample time. Some potential applications are power electronics, where we want the output to be as close as possible to a perfect harmonic signal, possibly at the cost of decreasing the power-output, or aerospace rendezvous.
