Proof. Any α-strongly convex function $g : A \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { m } $ R is of the form $g ( a ) = \tilde { g } ( a ) + \alpha / 2 \lVert a \rVert$ , where $\tilde { g }$ is a convex function. Fix any x. Since $F ^ { n } ( x , \cdot ) \colon _ { \mathsf { s } }$ are all α-strongly convex in a, and $F ^ { n } ( x , \cdot )$ converges in the uniform norm on $\begin{array} { r } { A , \operatorname* { s u p } _ { a } | F ^ { n } ( x , a ) - F ^ { m } ( x , a ) | = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { a } | \tilde { F } ^ { n } ( x , a ) - \tilde { F } ^ { m } ( x , a ) | \to 0 } \end{array}$ as $n , m  \infty$ . Thus $\tilde { F } ^ { n } ( x , \cdot )  \tilde { F } ( x , \cdot )$ for some convex function $\tilde { F } ( x , \cdot )$ on A in the uniform norm as convex functions are closed under uniform norm. This implies that $\tilde { F } ^ { n } ( x , \cdot ) + \alpha / 2 \lVert \cdot \rVert$ converges to $\tilde { F } ( x , \cdot ) + \alpha / 2 \lVert \cdot \rVert$ in uniform norm, and so, $F ( x , \cdot ) = \tilde { F } ( x , \cdot ) + \alpha / 2 \| \cdot \|$ is α-strongly convex. From strong convexity it follows that $F ^ { n } ( x , \cdot )$ and $F ( x , \cdot )$ have unique minimizers. Please note that if we can establish the second claim, it will also lead to the proof of the first part when we choose $\mu _ { n } = \delta _ { x _ { n } }$ and $\mu = \delta _ { x }$ . Therefore, for the rest of the proof, we will focus on demonstrating the second assertion.

Note that we have

$$\nu \otimes \pi \left\{(x, a): F (x, a) = \min _ {a} F (x, a) \right\} = 1\nu_ {n} \otimes \pi_ {n} \left\{(x, a): F _ {n} (x, a) = \min _ {a} F _ {n} (x, a) \right\} = 1$$

due to the definitions of π and $\pi _ { n }$ . Moreover, since the sequence $\left\{ \nu _ { n } \right\}$ is tight in ${ \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ and A is compact, the sequence $\left\{ \nu _ { n } \otimes \pi _ { n } \right\}$ is also tight in ${ \mathcal { P } } ( X \times A )$ . Therefore, there exists a subsequence $\{ \nu _ { n _ { k } } \otimes \pi _ { n _ { k } } \}$ of $\left\{ \nu _ { n } \otimes \pi _ { n } \right\}$ that converges weakly to $\nu \otimes { \hat { \pi } }$ . In the remaining part of this proof, we demonstrate that $\nu \otimes { \hat { \pi } } = \nu \otimes \pi$ . This will conclude the proof, as it implies that every subsequence of $\nu _ { n } \otimes \pi _ { n }$ weakly converges to the same limit point. Additionally, due to tightness, we can ascertain the existence of at least one converging subsequence.

To simplify the notation, in the sequel, we denote the converging subsequence as $\left\{ \nu _ { n } \otimes \pi _ { n } \right\}$ . We first prove that
