# III. HMPC FOR HARMONIC REFERENCE TRACKING

The idea behind HMPC [15] is to introduce an artificial harmonic reference in the optimization problem whose discrepancy with the desired reference is penalized in the objective function. Additionally, the objective function penalizes the discrepancy between the predicted system trajectory and this artificial reference, as is typical in MPC. In [15], HMPC was used to track set-point references, i.e., piecewise affine references $( x _ { r } , u _ { r } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ . In this article, however, the control objective is to track a harmonic reference trajectory $( x _ { r } ( \cdot ) , u _ { r } ( \cdot ) )$ , instead of a piecewise constant reference. At each sample time t, this reference trajectory can be equivalently expressed by its relative-time signals

$$x _ {r} ^ {k} (t) = x _ {r e} + x _ {r s} (t) \sin (w k) + x _ {r c} (t) \cos (w k), \tag {7a}u _ {r} ^ {k} (t) = u _ {r e} + u _ {r s} (t) \sin (w k) + u _ {r c} (t) \cos (w k), \tag {7b}$$

with suitable values of ${ \bf x } _ { r } ( t ) \ \doteq \ ( x _ { r e } , x _ { r s } ( t ) , x _ { r c } ( t ) )$ and ${ \bf u } _ { r } ( t ) \doteq \bigl ( u _ { r e } , u _ { r s } ( t ) , u _ { r c } ( t ) \bigr )$ , as discussed in Section II. Notice that we make no assumption on the admissibility of the reference. If is is an admissible harmonic signal (see Definition 2) then we wish to converge to it. Otherwise, we wish to converge to its closest admissible harmonic trajectory, for a criterion of proximity that will be apparent further ahead.

HMPC, as is typical in MPC, uses the notion of receding horizon, where at each sample time t we consider a window of future predictions indexed by $k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { 0 } ^ { N }$ , where $N > 0$ is the prediction horizon and $k = 0$ corresponds to the current time t. The artificial harmonic reference has the same form as the reference (7), i.e., sequences $\{ x _ { h } ^ { k } \} \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ and $\{ u _ { h } ^ { k } \} \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ whose values at each prediction time $k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { 0 } ^ { N }$ are given by

$$x _ {h} ^ {k} = x _ {e} + x _ {s} \sin (w k) + x _ {c} \cos (w k), \tag {8a}u _ {h} ^ {k} = u _ {e} + u _ {s} \sin (w k) + u _ {c} \cos (w k), \tag {8b}$$
