for $K _ { n } = L _ { 2 } ( 2 n + 1 )$ as a consequence of the inequality above. Similar results also hold if $d _ { X _ { n } }$ is a multiple of $d _ { X }$ too. Thus, $d _ { X _ { n } }$ cannot be chosen as a multiple of $d _ { X }$ and has to be greater than 1 when considering the distance between two distinct elements. This shows the necessicity of the scaling argument we did at the beginning of this section.

In case $d _ { X } \nleq 1$ but $d _ { X _ { n } } ( x _ { n , i } , x _ { n , j } ) = 1 _ { j \neq i }$ , the 1−Wasserstein distance on $X _ { n }$ and X are no longer related, this also creates an obstacle in itself as we will only have $W _ { 1 } ( \mu _ { 1 } ^ { \mathcal { C } } , \mu _ { 2 } ^ { \mathcal { C } } ) \leq M W _ { 1 } ( \mu _ { 1 } ^ { \mathcal { D } } , \mu _ { 2 } ^ { \mathcal { D } } )$ , which can break the condition in Theorem 1 if M is large enough, as we will then need to have $M K _ { 2 } < 1$ for the corresponding k2 term in Theorem 1.

As a consequence of Lemma 5, we see that the operator $H _ { 1 , n }$ is well defined similar to the continuous state space case.

Proposition 1. For sufficiently large n, the operator $H _ { 1 , n }$ is well defined in the sense that for any $\mu ^ { \mathcal { D } } \in \mathcal { P } ( X _ { n } )$ and $Q \in { \mathcal { C } } ( n )$ , we have $H _ { 1 , n } ( Q , \mu ^ { \mathcal { D } } ) \in \mathcal { C } ( n )$ .

Proof. Since $d _ { X _ { n } } ~ \leq ~ 1$ , we have the relation $W _ { 1 } \ \leq \ \| \cdot \| _ { T V }$ between the 1-Wasserstein metric and the total variation distance on ${ \mathcal { P } } ( X _ { n } )$ . The very same proof in [5, Lemma 1] concludes the statement. □

Note that it is straightforward to prove that $H _ { 1 , n } ( Q , \mu ) ( x , \cdot )$ is ρ-strongly convex for any $( Q , \mu , x ) \in \mathcal { C } ( n ) \times \mathcal { P } ( X _ { n } ) \times X _ { n } .$ Hence, if the Lipschitz bounds for quantized MFG satisfies the conditions in Theorem 1, then there exists a unique fixed point of the operator $H _ { n } = ( H _ { 1 , n } , H _ { 2 , n } )$ on $\mathcal { C } ( n ) \times \mathcal { P } ( X _ { n } )$ whenever n is sufficiently large.

Lemma 6. If n is sufficiently large and Theorem 1 is satisfied for the nominal game, then the quantized game also have a unique mean-field equilibrium that is obtained through value iteration algorithm provided that Assumption 2 holds.

Proof. Whenever n is large enough we have
