Amirat 2007). In their recent study, Lazar et al. (2021) devised a routing strategy for autonomous vehicles (AVs) in mixed-autonomy traffic. Their approach involved employing a planner to govern the AVs and using DRL to learn the optimal policy. Others adopted a multi-agent structure, with each driver represented as an agent, to model the vehicle routing problem(Ramos, Bazzan, and da Silva 2018, Grunitzki, Ramos, and Ieee 2020). Ramos, Bazzan, and da Silva (2018) proposed a regret-minimizing method to tackle vehicle routing problem. In multi-agent RL, agents learn using regret as a reinforcement signal, which is calculated based on the agents' observed information and global information from the navigation app. Assuming that road users(agents) choose routes independently, Grunitzki, Ramos, and Ieee (2020) employed multi-agent RL to address traffic assignment problem, and designed three reward functions including expert-designed rewards, difference rewards and intrinsically motivated rewards.

While RL has gained popularity for optimizing signal control and vehicle routing with a consideration of both short-term and long-term impacts, the joint control problem using RL has received limited attention. Zhu et al. (2021) addressed this problem by jointly optimizing traffic signals and rerouting for connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs) at a bottleneck intersection, but their approach did not utilize a multi-agent structure, potentially limiting scalability. Sun et al. (2023) developed a bidirectional hierarchical RL framework for coordinating traffic signal phases and AVs’ turning directions. However, their focus on single intersection vehicle navigation could be improved by considering possible routes for the OD flows. They also mainly considered local traffic conditions around signals, in contrast to the real-world scenario where drivers choose routes based on path cost, including conditions on subsequent links.
