# 1 Introduction

Control of large-scale and complex systems is often performed in a distributed manner Antonelli (2013), as it is practically difficult for every agent in the network to have access to the global information about the overall networked system while deciding its control actions. On the other hand, designing optimal distributed control laws when the networked system dynamics are uncertain still remains an open problem. This naturally calls for a learning-based controller to be employed in such uncertain settings. Learning based controllers for network systems is very much in its infancy and recently a scalable solution was proposed in Qu et al. (2022). Adaptive control in the centralised setting has been investigated a lot starting from Aström & Wittenmark (1973), where an adaptive controller was shown to learn the system dynamics online through sufficient parameter estimation and then control it. Multiple model-based adaptive control formulation have been known to handle uncertainty in system dynamics and an extensive literature in that topic can be found in Anderson et al. (2000; 2001); Hespanha et al. (2001); Kuipers & Ioannou (2010); Narendra & Balakrishnan (1997); Narendra & Han (2011). Another promising approach was introduced in Didinsky & Basar (1994) with the minimax problem formulation where the resulting full information problem of higher dimension was solved using Dynamic Programming. Minimax adaptive control formulation was specialized to linear systems with unknown sign for state matrix in Rantzer (2020), and to finite sets of linear systems in Cederberg et al. (2022); Rantzer (2021); Renganathan et al. (2023a). In general, minimax adaptive control problems are challenging mainly due to the exploration and exploitation trade-off that inevitably comes with the learning and the controlling procedure.
