# IV. CASE STUDIES AND SIMULATIONS

This case study evaluates the performance of our EV-based mitigation scheme against LA attacks on the New England (NE) 39-bus grid [23] presented in Fig. 4. The NE grid has 39 buses, 10 generators, and 19 loads with a total of 6,097MW. The simulations were performed using MATLAB-Simulink Specialized Power Systems Toolbox with $1 \times 1 0 ^ { - 9 } s$ step size.

While we acknowledge that the current number of EVs is not enough to exploit the mitigation scheme’s full potential, the following example demonstrates its future feasibility. Thus, we choose the similarly sized New South Wales (NSW) grid [24] having a 6968 MW load [24] and 5,892,206 registered vehicles [25]. Scaled to fit our test grid, the number of vehicles is 5,155,681. At a future 50% penetration level, our grid will have 2,577,841 EVs. As per the International Energy Agency (IEA) [9] there is 1 public EVCS for every 10 EVs on the road. This means that there will be 257,785 public EVCSs in our grid.

With an average EVCS occupancy rate of 31% [26], we can estimate that there will be 80,000 EVs connected to the grid on average. Furthermore, based on the mixture of different EVCSs, the average charging rate per EVCS is 24kW [9]. Based on these statistics, we estimate there will be 1,920MW of EV load connected to the grid. Furthermore, there are roughly 9 private EVCSs for every 10 EVs [9], which means 2.3 million private EVCSs in our grid. This demonstrates that the total EV load can easily surpass the needed levels for the success of our proposed EV-based LA attack mitigation scheme. Additionally, with the increased adoption of DC EVCSs, the presence of V2G capabilities will only increase in the future. However, in the absence of V2G, our scheme still holds, but requires double the number of EVs. Instead of starting V2G, the controller sends a command to another set of EVs to stop charging.
