We make the assumption that only stealthy leaders possess the ability to identify the final target region and possess information about the constant reference tracking velocity signal. However, in the case of a timevarying tracking velocity, all agents must be aware of its derivative for the formation to asymptotically track the reference tracking velocity. Additionally, we assume that the agents have the capability to sense the relative positions of other agents or detect obstacles within their sensing range. In our setup, it is not necessary for all agents to be familiar with the global coordinate system, except for the stealthy agents. Each agent is presumed to be aware of its local coordinate system, with orientations aligned with that of the global coordinate system.

The objective of this work is to devise a distributed control strategy for a multi-agent system, to reach a final target region, attain a desired formation, avoid all the unsafe regions in the space, and track the dynamic velocity reference signal after reaching the final target region. The objectives can be expressed mathematically as follows: Given the system dynamics (1) and the constraint of input saturation, the aim is to design a distributed control input that

1. Attains desired formation:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \left(p _ {i} (t) - p _ {j} (t)\right) = p _ {i} ^ {*} - p _ {j} ^ {*} \forall i, j \in \mathcal {V}. \tag {2}$$

2. Reaches target region:

$$p _ {i} (t _ {f}) \in \Omega \forall i \in \mathcal {L}, \tag {3}$$

where $t _ { f }$ is defined as the time required for the stealthy leader to reach the target region Ω from its initial position.

3. Tracks reference velocity signal $v _ { d }$ after reaching the target region:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} v _ {i} (t) = v _ {j} (t) = v _ {d} (t); t > t _ {f}. \tag {4}$$

4. Ensures internal and external safety at all times, for given $\delta _ { i n } > 0 $ :

$$p _ {i} (t) \notin \overline {{\Omega}} _ {k} \forall i \in \mathcal {V}, k = 1, \dots , K, \tag {5a}\left| \left| p _ {i} (t) - p _ {j} (t) \right| \right| \geq \delta_ {i n} \forall i, j \in \mathcal {V}; i \neq j. \tag {5b}$$

Remark 2. We note that the target-reaching objective is defined only for the stealthy leader and not for all the agents. However, to ensure this objective for all agents, one could introduce a new convex target region $\Omega _ { n e w }$ that is at least ∆ smaller compared to the original region Ω, i.e. $\Omega _ { n e w } = \{ y | \| x , y \| \ge$ $\Delta \forall \dot { x } \in \partial \Omega , y \in \bar { \Omega } \bar  \}$ , where $\Delta$ represents the maximum distance between any two agents in the graph $\mathcal { G } ^ { * }$ .
