# 2 Mean-field Games

A discrete-time mean-field game is specified by $\left( { { X , A , p , c , \mu _ { 0 } } } \right)$ , where X and A are the state and the action spaces, respectively. Here, X is a Polish space (complete separable metric space) with the metric $d _ { X }$ and A is a compact and convex subset of a finite dimensional Euclidean space $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ with the Euclidean norm $\| \cdot \|$ . The measurable function $p : X \times A \times { \mathcal { P } } ( X ) \to { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ denotes the transition probability of the next state given the previous state-action pair and the state-measure. The measurable function $c : X \times A \times { \mathcal { P } } ( X ) \to [ 0 , \infty )$ is the one-stage cost function. The measure $\mu _ { 0 }$ is the initial state distribution.

We introduce the history spaces $H _ { 0 } = X$ and $H _ { t } = ( X \times A ) ^ { t } \times X$ for $t = 1 , 2 , \ldots$ all endowed with product Borel σ-algebras. In this model, a policy is a sequence $\varphi = \left\{ \pi _ { t } \right\}$ of stochastic kernels on A given $H _ { t }$ . In this paper, we only consider stationary policies. A stationary policy π is a stochastic kernel on A given $X$ ; that is, $\pi : X \to { \mathcal { P } } ( A )$ is a measurable function. Let Π denote the set of all stationary policies. By the Ionescu Tulcea Theorem $[ 2 2 ]$ , a stationary policy π and an initial measure $\mu _ { 0 }$ define a unique probability measure $P ^ { \pi }$ on $( X \times A ) ^ { \infty }$ . The expectation with respect to $P ^ { \pi }$ is denoted by $E ^ { \pi }$ .

Let us fix a state-measure $\mu \in { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ that describes the collective behavior of the other agents. A stationary policy $\pi ^ { * } \in \Pi$ is said to be optimal for $\mu$ if $\begin{array} { r } { J _ { \mu } ( \pi ^ { * } , \mu _ { 0 } ) = \operatorname* { i n f } _ { \pi \in \Pi } J _ { \mu } ( \pi , \mu _ { 0 } ) } \end{array}$ where

$$J _ {\mu} (\pi , \mu_ {0}) = E ^ {\pi} \biggl [ \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \beta^ {t} c (x (t), a (t), \mu) \biggr | x (0) \sim \mu_ {0} \biggr ]$$

is the discounted cost of stationary policy π under the state-measure $\mu .$ . Here, $\beta \in ( 0 , 1 )$ is the discount factor. In this model, the evolution of the states and actions is given by

$$x (0) \sim \mu_ {0}, x (t) \sim p (\cdot | x (t - 1), a (t - 1), \mu), t \geq 1, a (t) \sim \pi (\cdot | x (t)), t \geq 0.$$
