# 1) State-to-measurement Function

The state-to-measurement function h converts the current state into the current predicted measurement. The model for the true measurement includes added noise rt. In order to obtain the h function, we need to express the predicted measurement in terms of the predicted state.

This is simple for the position components as computer vision directly measures position. Measurement is denoted by the subscript m.

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} x \\ y \\ \theta \end{array} \right] _ {m} = \left[ \begin{array}{l} x \\ y \\ \theta \end{array} \right] _ {p} \tag {28}
$$

To obtain encoder readings in terms of predicted velocity, we use the linear odometry equations (29) [6].

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {x} \\ \dot {y} \end{array} \right] _ {p} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} (E _ {R} - E _ {L}) / (2 W) \\ (E _ {R} + E _ {L}) / 2 \\ E _ {a} + D \dot {\theta} _ {p} \end{array} \right] \tag {29}
$$

W is the distance between a vertical encoder and the center vertical axis. The left and right encoders are symmetric to the center vertical axis. D is the distance between the horizontal encoder and the center horizontal axis. Refer to Figure 5. By rearranging (29), we can obtain:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} E _ {L} \\ E _ {R} \\ E _ {a} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} - W \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {x} + W \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {y} - D \dot {\theta} \end{array} \right] _ {p} \tag {30}
$$

Combining (28) and (30) gives:

$$
h \left(\left[ \begin{array}{l} x \\ y \\ \theta \\ \dot {x} \\ \dot {y} \\ \dot {\theta} \end{array} \right] _ {p}\right) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} x \\ y \\ \theta \\ \dot {x} - W \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {x} + W \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {y} - D \dot {\theta} \end{array} \right] _ {p} \tag {31}
$$

Noise rt has covariance matrix R:

$$R = d i a g ([ d _ {v a r} d _ {v a r} d _ {v a r} E _ {L _ {v a r}} E _ {R _ {v a r}} E _ {a _ {v a r}} ])d _ {v a r} = 0. 0 0 1 d _ {i m a g e} ^ {2} + 0. 0 0 1E _ {i _ {v a r}} = 0. 0 0 2 E _ {i} ^ {2} + 0. 0 0 1 \tag {32}$$

Similar to the prediction covariance matrix, the measurement covariance matrix is not obtained from measurements on a physical robot. Odometry measurement noise increases as the encoder spins faster, and landmark detection is noisier if the robot is further away from the image. The variable dimage is the distance between the robot and the detected image.
