# 3.1 Design strategy for a sub-optimal distributed minimax adaptive control algorithm

We describe a sub-optimal distributed minimax adaptive control algorithm given the set $\mathbf { A _ { i } }$ for every node $i \in \mathcal V .$ . it is possible to establish an one-to-one correspondence between Problem 1 and the centralised minimax adaptive control problem setting given in Rantzer (2021). However, as the number of nodes N grow, computing a centralized controller becomes expensive. To hedge against the uncertainty in the system matrix $A ,$ one can consider collecting historical data. Given the large-scale network setting, the highlighting point of our approach is that it is not necessary for a node $i \in \nu$ to collect the history for the entire network.

Each node $i \in \nu$ in the network has access to only local information from its neighbors at a time. Hence, the process of hedging against the uncertainty prevailing over its dynamics $a _ { i } \in \mathbf { A _ { i } }$ involves collecting historical data from only its local neighbors ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { i }$ to arrive at its own control action by finding a model that best describes the disturbance trajectory up to that time. Note that the disturbance at time $t \in \mathbb N$ can be inferred from (1) as

$$w _ {i} (t) = a _ {i} x _ {i} (t) + b \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}} (u _ {i} (t) - u _ {j} (t)) - x _ {i} (t + 1). \tag {18}$$

Let us denote the control vector from node $i \in \nu$ corresponding to all its neighbors ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { i }$ as

$$
u _ {\mathcal {N} _ {i}} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {i} (t) - u _ {j _ {1}} (t) \\ u _ {i} (t) - u _ {j _ {2}} (t) \\ \vdots \\ u _ {i} (t) - u _ {j _ {d _ {i}}} (t) \end{array} \right]. \tag {19}
$$

Note that for the distributed control policy to fit the description given in (13), every node $i \in \nu$ collects only the local neighbor information data in the form of sample covariance matrix with $t \in \mathbb { N }$ and $Z ^ { ( i ) } ( 0 ) = 0$ as

$$x _ {i} (t + 1) = v _ {i} (t), \tag {20a}
Z ^ {(i)} (t + 1) = Z ^ {(i)} (t) + \left[ \begin{array}{c} - v _ {i} (t) \\ x _ {i} (t) \\ u _ {\mathcal {N} _ {i}} (t) \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} - v _ {i} (t) \\ x _ {i} (t) \\ u _ {\mathcal {N} _ {i}} (t) \end{array} \right] ^ {\top}. \tag {20b}
$$

Note that with the above construction,

$$
\left\| \left[ \begin{array}{l l l} 1 & a _ {i} & b \mathbf {1} _ {d _ {i}} ^ {\top} \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} \right\| _ {Z ^ {(i)} (t)} ^ {2} = \sum_ {\tau = 0} ^ {t - 1} | w _ {i} (\tau) | ^ {2}. \tag {21}
$$

Our approach is to select a model at every point in time that best describes the disturbance trajectory given by (21). We do not claim here that our distributed controller design strategy based on the disturbance estimation using historical data is an optimal one.
