# 4.1. Interaction Between Multiple Agents

The proposed method considers the interaction among multiple agents. We define relevant agents to distinguish the degree of correlation among agents in the network. These relevant agents share observations and rewards, facilitating their individual training process.

The relevant RAs for an RA are the agents associated with the same OD pairs, and the relevant SAs for an SA are the agents located at its adjacent intersections. Notably, the relevant SAs for an RA are situated at intersections along the potential routes, while the relevant RAs for an SA are agents whose potential routes pass through its intersection. The relationship between SAs and RAs is mutual, meaning if an RA is associated with an SA, then the SA is also associated with the RA. Table 1 demonstrates the relevant agents of RAs and SAs in the example network as shown in Fig. 4.

Table 1 The definition of relevant agents

<table><tr><td>Agent</td><td>Relevant SA</td><td>Relevant RA</td></tr><tr><td>SA</td><td>Agents at its adjacent intersection</td><td>Agents whose potential routespass through its intersection</td></tr><tr><td>SA1</td><td>SA2, SA4</td><td>RA1</td></tr><tr><td>SA2</td><td>SA1, SA3, SA5</td><td>RA1, RA2, RA3</td></tr><tr><td>...</td><td>...</td><td>...</td></tr><tr><td>RA</td><td>Agents at intersections along the potential routes</td><td>Agents of the same OD pairs</td></tr><tr><td>RA1</td><td>SA1, SA2, SA3, SA4, SA5, SA6</td><td>RA2</td></tr><tr><td>RA2</td><td>SA2, SA3, SA5, SA6</td><td>RA1</td></tr><tr><td>RA3</td><td>SA2, SA3, SA5, SA6</td><td>-</td></tr></table>

To enhance the connections between an agent and its relevant agents, we incorporate the shared state and fingerprint of the relevant agents as a part of the agent’s own state. The fingerprints denote the relevant agents’ policy at the previous control step. Given that the proposed control strategy is real-time and the duration of control step is relatively small, the current step policy is similar to that of last step (Chu et al. 2020). The state of SA and RA can be represented as
