# 1 Introduction

This paper deals with the robustness of mean-field games (MFGs) under infinite-horizon discounted cost function. In such game models, an individual agent interacts with a large population of other agents and competes against their collective behavior, which is represented by a mean-field term. This mean-field term is supposed to converge to the stationary distribution of the state of a typical single agent as the number of agents approaches infinity. In the limiting scenario, a typical agent faces a stochastic control problem similar to that of a single agent, but with a constraint on the state distribution at each time step. This constraint ensures that the state distribution aligns with the behavior of the entire population (i.e. mean-field term) when each agent applies the optimal policy against the mean-field term. This condition, which establishes stability between policy and state distribution, is known as the mean-field equilibrium.

The theory of mean-field games (MFGs) was introduced independently by Lasry and Lions in their paper [29], where they coined the term mean-field games, and by Huang, Malham’e, and Caines in their paper [25], where they approached it as stochastic dynamic games. These studies focus on continuous-time non-cooperative differential games that involve a large but finite number of agents, whose interaction becomes asymptotically negligible as their number increases. These works explore the infinite limits of these games to establish approximate Nash equilibria. In the realm of continuous-time differential games, the characterization of mean-field equilibrium is based on coupled Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equations and Kolmogorov-Fokker-Planck (FPK) equations. For further exploration of continuous-time mean-field games with various models and cost functions, including games involving major-minor players, risk-sensitive games, games with Markov jump parameters, and Linear Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) games, we recommend referring to studies such as [24, 46, 23, 10, 15, 17, 21, 34].
