Proof. To show that uniqueness of the MFE of the quantized game implies that of the extended game, we first observe that the state measures of the MFE for the extended game are also atomic. Indeed, since $\hat { H } _ { 1 , n } ( \cdot , \cdot ) ( x , \cdot ) = \hat { H } _ { 1 , n } ( \cdot , \cdot ) ( y , \cdot )$ for any $x , y \ \in \ S _ { n , i } .$ optimal policy is constant on each partition $S _ { n , i }$ . Thus, if $( \hat { \pi } , \hat { \mu } ^ { \mathcal { C } } )$ is a mean field equilibrium for the extended game, due to the invariance condition, $\hat { \mu } ^ { c }$ is atomic and completely determined by its values on the partition $( S _ { n , i } ) _ { i = 1 } ^ { k _ { n } }$ )kn . Thus, if the quantized game has a unique mean field equilibrium, any two mean field equilibria $( \hat { \pi } _ { 1 } , \hat { \mu } _ { 1 } ^ { \mathcal { C } } )$ and $( \hat { \pi } _ { 2 } , \hat { \mu } _ { 2 } ^ { \mathcal { C } } )$ of the extended game induce the same discrete state-measures $\hat { \mu } _ { 1 } ^ { \bar { D } } = \hat { \mu } _ { 2 } ^ { \bar { D } }$ that satisfies (10). In turn, this means that $\hat { \mu } _ { 1 } ^ { \mathcal { C } } = \hat { \mu } _ { 2 } ^ { \mathcal { C } }$ and consequently the optimal policies must also be the same due to the uniqueness of optimal Q-functions. Therefore, there is a unique mean-field equilibrium for the extended game.

The reverse implication can be obtained in a similar fashion.

We are now in position to show that iterations of the extended games converge under the same conditions we have imposed on the quantized games in previous section. Main differences here will be, compared to the quantized games, that the starting point of the algorithm should be an element that we obtain from the quantized model and the convergence of the iterations is not obtained under contraction on the extended space but through the convergence of the iterations of the quantized games.

Proposition 4. Suppose $k _ { 1 } < k _ { 2 }$ and $k < 1$ holds. Under Assumption ${ \it 2 } ,$ assuming that n is sufficiently large, any iteration of the operator $\hat { H } _ { n }$ that starts from an initial datum $( Q \circ ( T _ { n } , I ) , \mu ^ { \mathcal { C } } ) \in$ $B ( X \times A ) \times { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ , where $Q \in { \mathcal { C } } ( n )$ and $\mu ^ { \mathcal { C } }$ is obtained from some $\mu ^ { \mathcal { D } } \in \mathcal { P } ( X _ { n } )$ as described before, converges to a fixed point in $( ( B ( X \times A ) , \parallel \cdot \parallel _ { \infty } ) , ( \mathcal { P } ( X ) , W _ { 1 } ) )$ where $\| \cdot \| _ { \infty }$ is the uniform norm over $B ( X \times A )$ .

Proof. Let
