1. In Lemma 3, we obtain the Lipschitz coefficients of the components of the mean-field equilibrium operator, iterative application of which gives the mean-field equilibrium. Using this result, in Theorem 1, it is then shown that there exists an unique fixed point of the mean-field equilibrium operator, where this unique fixed point corresponds to a mean-field equilibrium. Moreover, it is proved that this unique fixed point can be computed by repeated application of mean-field equilibrium operator.   
2. In Theorem 2, we demonstrate that if we have MFGs with converging transition probabilities and assume that the value iteration algorithm works, and the nominal model has an unique equilibrium, then the mean-field equilibria obtained for the perturbed MFGs converge to those of the limiting case. To guarantee the convergence of the value iteration algorithm for both the perturbed MFGs and the nominal model, it is crucial to rely on the outcome described in item 1. This is the reason behind our comprehensive establishment of the value iteration algorithm’s convergence.   
3. In Section 5.1, we construct the quantized mean-field games. Then, in Lemma 5, we establish the Lipschitz continuity properties of the components of the quantized games, which enables us to ensure the convergence of the value iteration algorithm for the quantized games (see Lemma 6). In Section 5.2, we extend the quantized games to the original state space and prove in Proposition 4 the convergence of the value iteration algorithm for the extended games. Finally, in Theorem 4, we establish that mean-field equilibria for the extended games converge to the mean-field equilibrium of the nominal model.   
4. In Section 6, we improve Theorem 2 and achieve the most comprehensive robustness result in mean-field games. Nevertheless, the applicability of this result might be limited unless spe-

cific conditions are established to guarantee the convergence of the value iteration algorithm for both the approximating and nominal models.
