where $\begin{array} { r } { { \bf F } = \left( ( \overline { { \bf a } } + \underline { { \bf a } } ) I + \frac { 2 } { 1 - \overline { { \bf a } } } B B ^ { \top } \right) ^ { \top } \left( ( \overline { { \bf a } } + \underline { { \bf a } } ) I + \frac { 2 } { 1 - \overline { { \bf a } } } B B ^ { \top } \right) , { \bf G } = \frac { 1 + \overline { { \bf a } } } { 1 - \overline { { \bf a } } } I - \frac { 1 } { ( \overline { { \bf a } } - 1 ) ^ { 2 } } B B ^ { \top } \quad , } \end{array}$ , and ${ \mathbf { H } } = ( \overline { { \mathbf { a } } } - \underline { { \mathbf { a } } } ) ^ { 2 } I .$ Now, let β = γ2. Applying (25b) in (32) and solving for $\beta ,$ we arrive at the cubic polynomial in β given by (30a) (details are given in the appendix of Renganathan et al. (2023b)). Then, condition on γ to get a finite game value can be readily obtained through the condition on $\sqrt { \beta _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } } .$ , where $\beta _ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ is the minimum positive root of the cubic polynomial (30a). The reasoning behind a finite value for the associated dynamic game is that the control law given by (29) indicates that every node $i \in \mathcal V$ selects the model that best describes the disturbance trajectory modelled using the collected history $\left( Z ^ { ( i ) } ( t ) \right)$ in a least-square sense and then employs the corresponding optimal distributed $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control law at every time step t by taking the certainty equivalence principle. Then, invoking Theorem 3 from Rantzer (2021) along with (30), we are ensured that the control law in the distributed form for every node $i \in \mathcal V$ given by (29) solves Problem 1 with a finite value for dynamic game given in Problem 1 meaning that, $J _ { i } ^ { \pi } < \infty$ and this completes the proof. □

Remarks: Observe that the right hand side of (30) is an upper bound for the $\gamma ^ { \dagger }$ and the dynamic game associated with Problem 1 will have a finite value if and only $\operatorname { i f } \gamma$ exceeds that quantity. Different bounds are possible to obtain with other choices for matrices $P _ { k l } = P _ { l k } \succeq P _ { k k }$ while invoking Theorem 3 of Rantzer (2021) and further (25b) introduces conservatism. Hence, we do not claim that our result is tight.
