# V. CASE STUDY

We show various numerical results of the application of the HMPC formulation to control the ball and plate system described in [15, §V.A]. The control objective of this system is to control the position of a solid ball that rests on a horizontal plate. To do $\mathbf { s o } ,$ the inclination of the plate can be manipulated using two independent motors located on each of its main axes.

To improve the numerical conditioning of the solvers, we scale the inputs by a factor of 50. We take the HMPC ingredients as $Q = \mathrm { d i a g } ( 1 0 , 5 , 5 , 5 , 1 0 , 5 , 5 , 5 ) , R = 0 . 5 I _ { 2 }$ , $T _ { e } = 5 0 Q , T _ { h } = 0 . 1 T _ { e } , S _ { e } = 1 0 I _ { 2 } , S _ { h } = 0 . 5 S _ { e } , N = 8 ,$ , and include an additional constraint on the position of the ball on the plate in the form of a regular hexagon with vertices at a distance of 1 meter from the origin.

We also consider the following MPC formulations:

• The periodic MPC for Tracking (perMPCT) formulation [6], whose offset cost function matrices we take as matrices $T _ { e }$ and $S _ { e }$ of the HMPC formulation, cost function matrices $Q$ and R as the ones of the HMPC formulation, and prediction horizon also as $N = 8$ .   
• The standard MPC formulation with terminal equality constraint [28, Eq. (8)], which we label equMPC, but considering a trajectory reference instead of a steadystate reference. We take $N = 1 6$ , and the cost function matrices $Q$ and R as the ones of the HMPC formulation. This formulation is the classical MPC for generic reference tracking with a terminal equality constraint and no terminal cost (c.f. [10, §2]); a typical approach when considering generic references, since it avoids the need of computing a terminal invariant set. The issue with this formulation is that it does not guarantee recursive feasibility. In particular, feasibility is lost if the reference does not satisfy the system constraints.
