naturally arise, besides controlling a multi-agent formation in its desired geometric shape.
First, a multi-agent formation is usually required to be driven to reach a specific region from its mission requirement, as pointed out in [20–24] giving rise to the problem of region formation control (RFC).
The region-based shape controller developed in [21] can drive all agents to a specific region but only maintain a minimum distance among agents rather than a desired formation shape.
A neural networkbased approach is presented in [23], which successfully achieves the objective of formation control within a specified region.
However, this method entails the training of the network and places demand on actuators that may be relatively high during the initial phases of the regiontracking process.
Second, agents need to avoid collisions with other agents and obstacles while converging and maintaining the formation, i.e.
safe formation control (SFC).
The work [25] employs a distributed consensus algorithm for obstacle avoidance in the assumption that a leader can never encounter an obstacle and the two agents in the neighborhood cannot have active collision course flags simultaneously.
Hierarchical control approaches have been developed for SFC in [26, 27] by introducing a very nice path generator to generate safe paths at the cost of repeatedly constructing graphs to evaluate the risk of collisions.
Several methods leverage artificial potential functions [23, 28] to integrate safety considerations.
However, these approaches may exhibit conservative performance in RFC since potential functions are not minimally invasive.
Very recently the authors of [29] have developed a distributed MPC based on reinforcement learning integrated with a barrier function, which successfully solved the problem of SFC at the cost of high computational complexity for the training process.
Third, as highlighted in surveys [3, 30], maintaining connectivity in the multi-agent systems is a common assumption in many existing algorithms for multi-agent ${ \mathrm { F C } } ,$ , which is however not valid in practice because of agents’ limited sensing capability.
Connectivity preservation in displacement-based FC was studied in [31] where the desired formation is achieved for single-integrator modeled agents.
