# D. H-∞ Controller Design

In this subsection, the EV-based mitigation control scheme is developed, and its mathematical formulation is obtained based on the LMIs of the desired control law [21]. Writing our controller equations as LMIs gives us the flexibility to fine-tune their design and implement complex control schemes. In our study, we utilize the LMI problem in (6) to (10) to calculate the value of the defender gain $K _ { m i t }$ used by the utility to maintain grid stability by attenuating the impact of the unknown attack. Our control strategy simultaneously minimizes the attack impact and the EV load involved in the feedback signal. We first write the transfer function ??, representing the influence of disturbance ?? on the grid output ??, generator frequency, as (6):

$$T = \frac {y}{\omega} = (C + D K _ {m i t}) (s I - (A + B K _ {m i t})) ^ {- 1} B _ {d} + D _ {d} \tag {6}$$

The H-∞ controller aims to minimize the maximum singular value of ??. This translates to minimizing the value of ?? less than a scalar ?? corresponding to the attenuation level. Based on Schur’s formulation for partitioned matrices [21], the problem of minimizing $T < \rho$ is arranged as the LMI problem (7)-(9).

$$\text { Minimize } \rho \tag {7}$$

s.t. $X > 0$ (8)

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c c} (A X + B W) ^ {T} + A X + B W & B _ {d} & (C X + D W) ^ {T} \\ B _ {d} ^ {T} & - \rho I & D _ {d} ^ {T} \\ C X + D W & D _ {d} & - \rho I \end{array} \right] <   0 \tag {9}
$$

This LMI optimization problem can only have a solution if there exists a matrix W and a symmetric positive definite matrix X satisfying the matrix inequality problem in (7)-(9). After solving for W and X, we calculate the feedback gain matrix as $K _ { m i t } \stackrel { \textstyle = } { = } W X ^ { - 1 }$ . To guarantee the performance of the controller in the time domain and reduce the settling time, we add constraint (10) based on the D-stabilization pole placement method [7] to select the region of the closed loop eigenvalues.

$$A X + X A ^ {T} + B W + W ^ {T} B ^ {T} + 2 \Lambda_ {1} X < 0 \tag {10}$$

Constraint (10) shifts the eigenvalues of the system into a region where the real part of the eigenvalues is less than $- \lambda _ { 1 }$ to guarantee performance and fast settling time. $\varLambda _ { 1 }$ should also be small enough to avoid aggressive controller behavior.
