Remark 3. For the robustness of the value iteration algorithm, it suffices to have Assumption 1 for the nominal model in addition to assumption (v) in Theorem 2. However, to ensure the convergence of the value iteration algorithm for the $M F G _ { n } \stackrel { , } { s } ,$ , they generally need to satisfy Assumption 1 and the condition in Theorem 1. This is why we established the convergence of the value iteration algorithm in detail in the previous section.

In the next section, we will address the finite model approximation problem. While the quantized model with a finite state space satisfies Assumption 1 and the condition in Theorem 1 (resulting in value iteration convergence), the extended version of the quantized model, which shares the same state space as the nominal model, does not satisfy these assumptions.

However, in this case, the extended game can inherit the conditions required for assumption (v) in Theorem 2 from the quantized model.

By applying Lemma 4 to the iterations on the approximating MFGs, we can deduce that the Dirac measure induced by the minimizer of the iterations also converges to the optimal policy in the equilibrium of the nominal model. This result is a consequence of the proof of the theorem mentioned earlier.

Theorem 3. Suppose the nominal model and each $M F G _ { n }$ satisfies the conditions in Theorem 2. Further assume that $Q _ { * } ^ { n } ( x , a )$ has a unique minimizer in a for each x, where $( Q _ { n } ^ { * } , \mu _ { * } ^ { n } )$ is the fixed point of $H _ { 1 , p _ { n } }$ in the previous theorem. Let $( \pi _ { * } , \mu _ { * } )$ be the mean-field equilibrium of the nominal model. $I f \left( { \bar { Q } } ^ { m , n } , \mu ^ { m , n } \right)$ is the m’th iteration of the value iteration algorithm for $M F G _ { n }$ , then for $\pi ^ { m , n }$ satisfying supp $\pi ^ { m , n } ( \cdot | x ) \subset \arg \operatorname* { m i n } _ { a } Q ^ { m , n } ( x , a )$ , we have

$$W _ {1} (\pi^ {m, n} (\cdot | x _ {n}), \pi_ {*} (\cdot | x)) < \epsilon$$

and

$$W _ {1} (\mu^ {m, n}, \mu_ {*}) < \epsilon$$

for sufficiently large m and $n ,$ , where $( x _ { n } ) _ { n } \subset X$ such that $x _ { n } \to x$ . In other words, $( \pi ^ { m , n } , \mu ^ { m , n } )$ is an ǫ-near mean-field equilibrium for the nominal model.

Proof. Let $( \mu _ { * } ^ { n } , \pi _ { * } ^ { n } )$ be a mean-field equilibrium obtained through value iteration algorithm for $\mathrm { M F G } _ { n }$ with the fixed point $( Q _ { * } ^ { n } , \mu _ { * } ^ { n } )$ . It follows from Theorem 2 that
