# 1 Introduction

In recent times, DC power systems have been favored over AC power systems in many applications due to their superior reliability and quality. DC loads are commonly used in modern electronics, as DC is a preferred option for microgrid (MG) designs [1], [2]. Moreover, there has been a significant focus on the production of electricity from sustainable energy sources. These systems require sophisticated control techniques in order to fully utilize their potential. This can involve adjusting the load to match the voltage of the source, known as maximum power-point tracking, to extract the maximum power. Alternatively, it can involve maintaining a steady power supply for a passive load. As a consequence, the investigation of a boost converter, which is a DC-to-DC converter that controls the voltage between a power supply and a load, has gained popularity.

The performance of power electronic systems, particularly boost converters, can be greatly improved by using proper control methods. The converter output voltage and current are regulated as part of these control schemes to provide the necessary power at the desired condition. Boost converters are widely utilized in a variety of industries, including telecommunications [3], electric vehicles [4, 5], and renewable energy systems [6, 7] where the main function is to step up the voltage level to fulfill the needed power demand at the specified condition. However, a proper control circuit is essential for guaranteeing dependable performance, increasing efficiency, and extending the system lifespan of the converter. Boost converters are controlled using several control techniques such as proportional integral derivative (PID) [8, 9], artificial neural network (ANN) [10, 11], model predictive control (MPC) [12], fuzzy logic [13, 14], adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) control, sliding mode control [15], etc.
