For the approximation problem to numerically compute the mean-field equilibrium, there are various works available in the literature which are again mostly geared towards the continuous-time setup. In [2], authors propose discrete approximations by finite difference methods of the mean field system (coupled PDEs), both in the stationary case an non-stationary case. In their work [1], the authors focus on a specific class of mean-field games known as mean-field game planning problems and introduce discrete approximations for these problems. Additionally, they explore the application of Newton’s method to solve these discrete approximations. In [4], authors explore computational techniques for stationary mean-field games (MFG) and propose two algorithms. The first method uses gradient flow technique, which are derived from the variational characterization of specific MFG problems. The second one relies on monotonicity properties of MFG. We refer the reader to the lecture notes [31] for a more comprehensive overview of numerical methods for mean-field games.

For finite horizon discrete time mean-field type control problems, model-based machine learning techniques have been employed to construct approximate models to the original mean-field control model in [26, 37] to approximate the optimal value of the original control model, which is the closest work to ours in terms of scope. However their techniques merely gives a policy and state measure that allows one to approximate the optimal value of the associated control problem rather than the mean-field equilibrium itself; whereas our work gives conditions on the approximations of the original model so that their associated mean-field equilibria can approximate both the state measure and optimal policy of the mean-field equilibrium of the original model.

In the context of partially observed Markov decision processes (MDPs), robustness problem for the optimal value of the control problem is also studied in [8, 27] under setwise and total variation convergence assumptions on transition probabilities due to the partially observed nature of the information structure. It is important to note that MFGs and MDPs have distinct objectives. While MFGs seek person-by-person optimal solutions, MDPs aim to achieve global optimal solutions. Consequently, our results cannot be directly compared to these existing works.

In terms of value iteration algorithms, using regularized (or softmax) policies instead of the bona-fide optimal policy gained traction in the literature recently due to their relaxed requirements [7, 50, 18]. Due to their nature, the resulting mean-field policy in such case deviates from the original one, which can become uncontrollable under robust setting.
