In addition to iterative methods, researchers have explored various approaches for centralized control. These approaches include gradient-based optimization algorithms such as the gradient projection algorithm (Sheffi and Powell 1983) and the bundle-based gradient method (Chiou 2014); metaheuristic algorithms such as the genetic algorithm (Varia and Dhingra 2004, Yu, Ma, and Zhang 2018) and simulated annealing (Han et al. 2015); and decomposition optimization methods such as the Lagrangian decomposition algorithm (Li, Mirchandani, and Zhou 2015, Wang et al. 2020). Other details of these studies are presented in Appendix A. Local search algorithms and global optimization heuristic algorithms typically incorporate one or more traffic assignment processes in each iteration. For example, in the method proposed by Sheffi and Powell (1983), equilibrium flows are assigned in each step of the gradient update. Similarly, Yu, Ma, and Zhang (2018) formulated the dynamic user equilibrium control problem as a Mathematical Programs with Equilibrium Constraints (MPEC) problem and solved it using a GAMS solver in each generation of the genetic algorithm. The decomposition method proposed by Li, Mirchandani, and Zhou (2015), Wang et al. (2020), although it does not involve multiple instances of traffic assignment, still exhibits high computational complexity. This is because it considers the space-time trajectories of vehicles in the network and represents multiple intersection phases as MIphases. With an increasing number of intersections, the number of MI-phases grows exponentially, leading to the "Curse of Dimensionality" in optimization. Due to the algorithm's complexity, although these methods provide dynamic modeling of traffic, they are challenging to achieve real-time control and apply to large-scale networks due to long computational times.
