# 3.1.1. Nominal: Formation control

Artificial potential functions have been used by many researchers for formation control and rendezvous problems in multi-agent systems. The basic idea remains the same as observed in natural phenomena like electrostatics and gravitation. We define a scalar, non-negative potential function $\Phi _ { i j }$ as the measure of formation control error for each neighbor pair $( i , j )$ . With $d _ { i j }$ defined as $d _ { i j } = p _ { i } ^ { * } - p _ { j } ^ { * }$ , we require the potential function Φ to obey the following:

1. $\Phi _ { i j }$ is continuously differentiable.   
2. $\begin{array} { r } { \left( \frac { \partial \Phi _ { i j } } { \partial ( p _ { i } - p _ { j } - d _ { i j } ) } \right) ^ { T } \left( p _ { i } - p _ { j } - d _ { i j } \right) \ \ge \ 0 \ \mathrm { ~ f o r ~ } \ \| p _ { i } - p _ { j } \| \in \mathbb { ~ } ^ { } \ } \end{array}$ ) T  pi − pj − dij  ≥ 0 for ∥ pi − pj ∥∈ $[ 0 , r )$ . The potential should increase with distance as it moves far from the desired displacement and is zero only at the desired displacement.   
3. $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { \| \boldsymbol { p } _ { i } - \boldsymbol { p } _ { j } \|  r } \Phi _ { i j } \  \ \infty } \end{array}$ . Potential should be sufficiently large when the distance between the two agents reaches the sensing radius to preserve the connectivity.

We propose the potential function Φij = ∥pi−pj−dij∥ r2−∥p −p ∥2+µ $\begin{array} { r } { \Phi _ { i j } ~ = ~ \frac { \| p _ { i } - p _ { j } - d _ { i j } \| ^ { 2 } } { r ^ { 2 } - \| p _ { i } - p _ { j } \| ^ { 2 } + \mu } } \end{array}$ between agents i and j for displacement-based formation control, where $\mu > 0$ is some small positive number. Performing gradient descent along Φ ensures that the agents remain close enough in contemplation of connectivity preservation. The minimum of this potential is achieved when $p _ { i } - p _ { j } = d _ { i j } ,$ i.e. when the agents achieve the desired displacement. Based on the potential function defined, an explicit distributed control input for the system can be given as

$$u _ {i 1} = - \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}} \nabla_ {p _ {i}} \Phi_ {i j}, \tag {11}$$

where the summation is taken over all agents in the neighborhood of agent i.
