Whereas the term $( p _ { i } - p _ { j } ) ^ { T } ( v _ { i } - v _ { j } )$ in $\bar { A } _ { i j }$ can be upper bounded using Cauchy-Schwarz inequality as

$$
\begin{array}{l} (p _ {i} - p _ {j}) ^ {T} (v _ {i} - v _ {j}) = (p _ {i} - p _ {j}) ^ {T} (\hat {v} _ {i j} - e), \\ \geq (p _ {i} - p _ {j}) ^ {T} \hat {v} _ {i j} - \| p _ {i} - p _ {j} \| \| e \|, \\ \geq (p _ {i} - p _ {j}) ^ {T} \hat {v} _ {i j} - \frac {2 \| p _ {i} - p _ {j} \| u _ {m a x}}{\eta}. \\ \end{array}
$$

Hence (26) can be lower bounded using the constraint

$$\tilde {A} _ {i j} + \bar {B} _ {i j} ^ {T} (u _ {i} - u _ {j}) \geq 0 \forall j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}; j \neq i, \tag {28}$$

where $\begin{array} { r l r } { \tilde { A } _ { i j } } & { { } = } & { 2 ( \| \hat { v } _ { i j } \| - \| e \| ) ^ { 2 } + 2 k _ { 1 } ( p _ { i } - p _ { j } ) ^ { T } \hat { v } _ { i j } - } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { 2 k _ { 1 } \frac { 2 \| p _ { i } - p _ { j } \| u _ { m a x } } { \eta } + k _ { 0 } ( \| p _ { i } - p _ { j } \| ^ { 2 } - \delta _ { i n } ^ { 2 } ) } \end{array}$ 1 2∥pi−pj∥umaxη + k0(∥ pi − pj∥2−δ2in) and B¯ij = 2(pi − pj). $\bar { B } _ { i j } = 2 ( p _ { i } - p _ { j } )$ n

Next, in order to address the dependence of (26) on the control input of other agents, we use the decentralized strategy proposed in [48] where each agent takes only a fraction of the responsibility for collision avoidance. Using this, the constraint for agent i can be obtained as

$$\frac {1}{2} \tilde {A} _ {i j} + \bar {B} _ {i j} ^ {T} u _ {i} \geq 0 \forall j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}; j \neq i, \tag {29}$$

where agent i assumes only half the responsibility for avoiding collisions.

Next, we provide the safety guarantee by the following result.

Theorem 3. Consider a MAS with N mobile agents following the system dynamics given by (1). If the control law satisfies the constraints (25) and (29) for all agents $i \in \mathcal V .$ , then the MAS is guaranteed to be safe.

Proof. The proof is presented in the Appendix.

We note that it is not difficult to create complex unsafe sets and deadlocks (either using highly non-convex regions or unsafe regions very close to each other) where the MAS will not be able to achieve the high-level objective, i.e. either reaching the target region or attaining the desired formation. This is because the agents are primarily driven towards the target region using the linear distance between the stealthy leaders and the region Ω, and a big complex unsafe set can directly obstruct the path. It is important to note that the current approach provides a safe maneuvering strategy and does not include path planning.
