Fig. 1 represents the LA attack against the power grid and the utility’s interaction with the grid to attenuate the attack impact. The attacker in the dotted box would use one of the attack models discussed above to launch their LA attacks. The statespace representation in the dashed box is constructed by the utility, based on the power grid parameters, and (1). This statespace representation is then used to calculate the EV gain matrix $K _ { m i t }$ , used to determine the required EV active and reactive power, $u { = } \varDelta P Q _ { E V } = K _ { m i t } x .$ , for the system to eliminate the impact of the attack/disturbance. The relation between the disturbance and the generator frequency can be expressed as $y = T \omega$ , where ?? is a transfer function written in terms of the state-space matrices. The behavior of $u = \varDelta P Q _ { E V }$ , is then captured and replicated on the set of secure EVs located throughout the grid. The state-space matrices are also used to calculate the observer gain matrix L needed by the utility to recover the grid states, x. Since not all the states are measurable, the utility obtains an estimate, ??ො, by multiplying the grid’s outputs, y, by the observer gain L. The power of the aggregate EV load is then calculated as $\varDelta P Q _ { E V } = K _ { m i t } \hat { x . }$ This design changes ?? to its closed-loop form, $A _ { c l } = A + B K _ { m i t }$ . The eigenvalues of $A _ { c l }$ define the grid’s stability, thus $K _ { m i t }$ should guarantee acceptable attenuation levels under different attacks.
