Another way through which connectivity has been preserved in the literature is by maximizing the second smallest eigenvalue of the Laplacian of graph network [32].
Although there has been significant progress achieved for multi-agent formation control, there lacks a distributed algorithm for multi-agent formation control with consideration of all the above practical constraints, i.e.
region reaching, collision avoidance, and connectivity preservation.

In this paper, we aim to develop a unified distributed algorithm for multi-agent safe region formation control (SRFC), i.e. steering the multi-agent system to converge to a desired formation in a specific region with collision avoidance, velocity tracking, actuator saturation, and connectivity preservation. We consider second-order dynamics without velocity measurements of other agents which significantly reduces the communication requirements. In contrast to existing literature, the key contributions of the proposed work are as follows. First, we provide a unified distributed algorithm that accounts for all the practical considerations and has not directly been solved using methods developed in [23, 28, 33–39]. Second, unlike most of the work [23, 28], we model safety as an inherent feature of the system by using control barrier functions to provide more flexibility to the system. The absence of velocity or control input measurements makes it a challenging task to design such a barrier function in completely a distributed fashion. Third, our approach can be easily extended to both region tracking and perimeter monitoring problems. Finally, the work distinctively shows the significance and developments of each component of the control input for the respective objective. Our approach is well supported by theoretical results and numerical simulations showcasing the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
