On the other hand, designing optimal distributed control laws that address the uncertainty prevailing over true model of the networked system still remains an open problem. Though we can approach this problem from the multiple model-based adaptive control techniques, the resulting controller does not facilitate a distributed implementation as the controller solutions are often dense in nature. Aiming for a distributed implementation adds an additional layer of complexity to the existing challenges of any centralised adaptive control algorithm. However, there are certain classes of systems for which scalable implementation of distributed minimax adaptive control is possible, such as systems with inherent structure that open up the door for optimal control laws to be structured as well. Such system models are common in many infrastructural networks such as irrigation and transportation networks.

Control of spatially invariant systems such as linear models of transportation and buffer networks in Bamieh et al. (2002) has paved the ways for designing distributed robust controllers for such special class of systems. We consider similar class of systems in our research problem where the original system comprises of subsystems with local dynamics, that only share control inputs. A closed-form expression for the distributed $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ optimal state feedback law for systems with symmetric and Schur state matrix was computed in Lidström et al. (2017), where the total networked system comprised of subsystems with local dynamics, that share only control inputs and each control input affecting only two subsystems. Similarly, a closed-form expression for a decentralised $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ optimal controller with diagonal gain matrix for network systems having acyclic graphs was computed in Vladu & Rantzer (2022). In all these previous works, the network dynamics are known exactly.

Contributions: We extend the problem setting in Lidström et al. (2017) by considering finite number of possible local dynamics in each node and control action along each edge. The highlight of our work is that we propose learning in network systems for addressing uncertainty in local dynamics along with disturbance rejection. Our main contributions are as follows:
