# 1. Introduction

The problem of optimal decision making for uncertain dynamical systems has been studied in both the control and the learning communities, and is referred to as stochastic optimal control, adaptive control, or reinforcement learning. A fundamental special case of this problem is the online (or adaptive) Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) which deals with the optimal control of systems with linear dy-1Division of Decision and Control Systems, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. Correspondence to: Damianos Tranos <tranos@kth.se>.

Workshop on New Frontiers in Learning, Control, and Dynamical Systems at the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, 2023. Copyright 2023 by the author(s).

namics (Recht, 2019). Early efforts in the control community yielded algorithms with asymptotic performance and stability guarantees (Astr˚ om & Wittenmark¨ , 1973; Lai, 1986). Over the last decade, the problem has been revisited in the learning community (see e.g. (Abbasi-Yadkori & Szepesvari ´ , 2011; Mania et al., 2019; Goel & Hassibi, 2022; Jedra & Proutiere, 2022) and references therein), with the aim of devising algorithms with finite-time guarantees on the regret, defined as the difference between the cumulative cost of the learning algorithm and that of an oracle which has perfect knowledge of the system.

All aforementioned studies deal with the simple LQR problem and cannot account for constraints on the system state and input. These constraints are important in applications as they capture both the inherent limitations (e.g position, velocity, and actuator limits) as well as limitations imposed due to safety or the cost of operating the system. Unfortunately, it is well known that directly solving a constrained LQR problem is in general intractable because of the infinite time horizon (Scokaert & Rawlings, 1998). A way to circumvent this issue is to use Model Predictive Control (MPC) which solves a finite-time constrained optimization problem in a receding horizon manner.
