The entropy of the policy $\pi _ { \theta _ { i } }$ is incorporated into the function of improved exploration to discourage premature convergence to suboptimal deterministic policies. This regularization term encourages a distribution with a "flat entropy" shape, which makes it less likely to converge on a single action during training(Williams and Peng 1991). By adding this entropy term to the objective function, the exploration of different actions is promoted, preventing the policy from getting stuck in local optima and promoting a more diverse exploration of the action space. $H \left( \pi _ { \theta _ { i } } ( s _ { i , t } ) \right)$ is the entropy, $H \left( \pi _ { \theta _ { i } } ( s _ { i , t } ) \right) =$ $\begin{array} { r } { - \sum _ { a _ { i , t } \in V _ { i , t } } \pi _ { \theta _ { i } } \big ( a _ { i , t } \vert s _ { i , t } \big ) l o g \pi _ { \theta _ { i } } \big ( a _ { i , t } \vert s _ { i , t } \big ) } \end{array}$ , $V _ { i , t }$ is the set of $a _ { i , t }$ , hyperparameter $\beta _ { \mathrm { e n } }$ controls the strength of the entropy regularization term.

The MAA2C algorithm is shown as follows, where $s _ { t } = \left\{ s _ { i , t } \vert i \in C _ { S } \cup C _ { R } \right\} \ , \quad a _ { t } =$ $\left\{ a _ { i , t } \middle | i \in C _ { S } \cup C _ { R } \right\} , \ r _ { t } = \left\{ r _ { i , t } \middle | i \in C _ { S } \cup C _ { R } \right\} , \ R _ { t } = \left\{ R _ { i , t } \middle | i \in C _ { S } \cup C _ { R } \right\} , \ A _ { t } = \left\{ A _ { i , t } \middle | i \in C _ { S } \cup C _ { R } \right\}$ . Each batch has n steps. At each step, the policy and value networks are used to obtain the action $a _ { i , t }$ and the value function $V _ { \omega _ { i } } ( s _ { i , t } )$ for each agent ??. These actions are then executed in the environment, resulting in a new state $s _ { t + 1 }$ and reward $r _ { t }$ . The transition for each step is stored in a transition batch. After collecting a batch of data, the TD target and advantage for each agent can be calculated, and the policy and value networks can be updated accordingly. If the simulation step size reaches the last step, the environment is reset, and the training continues with a new episode. The algorithm continues to collect data and update the networks until a stopping condition is met, such as reaching a maximum number of training steps or achieving a certain level of performance. Once the stopping condition is met, the policy parameters $\theta _ { i } ,$ , value-function parameters $\omega _ { i }$ are returned.
