This work aims to design an adaptive control methodology to address the voltage instability and achieve the target voltage in DC-to-DC boost converters.
The goal is to minimize the settling time.
The paper’s key contribution can be summarized as follows-

• This work presents a method for controlling a boost converter using proximal policy optimization (PPO), an advanced reinforcement learning (RL) methodology known for its effective use in several control applications.   
• The performance of the PPO-based control approach is compared with traditional control techniques, including optimized proportional-integral (PI) control and artificial neural network (ANN) control.   
• The effectiveness of the proposed control approach in improving the performance of the boost converter control system is evaluated through simulations using the MATLAB Simulink solver.   
• To evaluate the reliability of the control performance, simulations are performed under both fixed and varying input conditions.

Through extensive experimentation, it is observed that, in both scenarios, the step response characteristics remained consistently similar and almost better than the existing control methods. The subsequent sections of the paper are arranged in the following manner. Section 2 provides an explanation of the fundamental operational mechanism of the boost converter. The proposed methodology is outlined in Section 3, with a detailed algorithm provided to illustrate each step. Section 4 provides a comprehensive account of the experiments and simulation situations. Section 5 presents the validation of our method and a comparative study with existing studies. Section 6 presents a concise summary of our findings and insights.
