# 2.3 Distributed Minimax Adaptive Control Problem

In the problem setting considered in this paper, the true system model $a _ { i }$ in (1) governing the dynamics of each node $i \in \mathcal V$ is unknown. We have the following two assumptions to characterize the uncertainty in the local dynamics of each node in the network.

Assumption 1. The parameter $a _ { i }$ in (1) belongs to a finite set $\mathbf { A _ { i } }$ with $| \mathbf { A _ { i } } | = M \in \mathbb { N } _ { \ge 1 }$ elements. That $i s , \forall i \in \mathcal { V }$ ,

$$a _ {i} \in \mathbf {A} _ {\mathbf {i}} := \{a _ {i} \in (0, 1) \mid (7) \text { is satisfied } \}. \tag {12}$$

Assumption 2. The dynamics of node $i \in \mathcal V$ is independent of the dynamics of its neighbor $j \in \mathcal N _ { i }$ . This means that the choice of any one of the M values of $a _ { i } \in \mathbf { A _ { i } }$ being the true $a _ { i }$ does not influence any one of the M values of $a _ { j } \in \mathbf { A } _ { \mathbf { j } }$ being the true $a _ { j }$ for every neighbor $j \in \mathcal N _ { i }$ . Hence, there are $F : = M ^ { N }$ possible realisations of system matrix $A$ .

Given that the local dynamics of each node in the network is being uncertain, the controller should first learn the local dynamics accurately and then guarantee robustness against the adversarial disturbance acting on the node. This clearly calls for a learning-based control policy which aims to learn the uncertain parameter through the collected history of system data. However, we would also need to ensure that the learning based control policy does not result in a $\ell _ { 2 }$ gain for the system that is worse than the one with zero control input given by (9). A control policy is termed as admissible if it is stabilising and has causal implementation. The control input of node $i \in \nu$ depends upon the historical data of only its inclusive neighbors and is given by

$$u _ {i} (t) = \pi_ {t} \left(\{x _ {j} (\tau) \} _ {\tau = 0} ^ {t}, \{u _ {j} (\tau) \} _ {\tau = 0} ^ {t - 1} \mid \forall j \in \mathcal {J} _ {i}\right), \tag {13}$$

where $\pi _ { t } \in \Pi$ and Π denotes the set of all admissible control policies. To this end, we now formally define the distributed minimax adaptive control problem statement.

Problem 1. Let $\gamma > 0$ and $T \in \mathbb { N }$ denote the given time horizon. With the uncertainty set $\mathbf { A _ { i } }$ for every node $i \in \nu$ given by (12), find a distributed control policy $\pi _ { t } \in \Pi , \forall t \in [ 0 , T ]$ in the lines of (13) to solve
