# C. Case Study 2: H-∞ Control EV-Based Mitigation Scheme

Based on our methodology, we design our EV mitigation scheme and test it against the three attacks. The EV defender load is calculated based on $\varDelta P Q _ { E V } = u = K _ { m i t } \hat { x }$ and replicated on the NE grid that is under attack. The EV mitigation scheme successfully eliminates the static attack’s impact immediately after its initiation even if it is sustained as demonstrated in Fig. 5(a). The switching and dynamic attacks are presented below.

1) Attack 2: is repeated against the NE 39-bus grid in the presence of the H-∞ EV-based control scheme. The frequency responses of the generators are presented in Fig. 5(b). The frequency drops by 0.01 Hz and recovers to 60 Hz at t=30s, representing 100% system recovery. Fig. 6(a) presents a sample of the aggregate EV mitigation load on bus 4.   
2) Attack 3: is repeated in the presence of the H-∞ EV-based control scheme. The EV controller severely reduces the attack impact as demonstrated by the frequency response presented in

Fig. 5(c). The frequency deviation was reduced to 0.08Hz representing a 94.7% reduction of the attack impact. Fig. 6(b) presents a sample of the aggregate EV mitigation load on bus 4.

In both cases, the frequency returns to the normal operating range. For the switching attack, the frequency returns to 60Hz, but for the dynamic attack, the frequency keeps oscillating in a 60 ± 0.08Hz range which is considered a safe operation range that does not require engaging the protection mechanisms.

We repeat the attacks when the defender does not control any EVs on the attacked bus. This is to demonstrate the success of the mitigation scheme even if we eliminate one of its advantages, i.e., the colocation of the defender-controlled EVs with the attack load. Attack 2 and Attack 3 are both repeated against the grid that has the EV mitigation scheme and the frequency deviation reached 0.08Hz and 0.09Hz respectively.

The impact of the synchronization error is also studied on the mitigation scheme by repeating Attack 2 after adding a random Gaussian delay to each of the feedback signals between 0ms and 10ms. The maximum frequency deviation that was observed in this case was 0.07 Hz. This shows how the mitigation scheme is still successful even in the presence of the maximum delay possible by using NTP protocol. To quantify things in terms of controller success, the maximum frequency deviation was reduced by 91% when compared to the case with a PSS but in the absence of our proposed mitigation scheme.
