# 2. Problem Setting

We consider the following discrete time, linear, timeinvariant system:

$$x _ {t + 1} = A (\theta^ {\star}) x _ {t} + B (\theta^ {\star}) u _ {t} + w _ {t}, \tag {1}$$

where $x _ { t } , w _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { x } }$ and $u _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { u } }$ . The state transition and state-action transition matrices $A ( \theta ^ { \star } )$ and $B ( \theta ^ { \star } )$ are initially unknown. The set of possible such matrices is parameterized by $\theta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { \theta } }$ (here θ could well parameterize each entry of the matrices, in which case $d _ { \theta } = d _ { x } ( d _ { x } + d _ { u } ) )$ . To simplify the notation, for two possible parameters $\theta _ { 1 } , \theta _ { 2 }$ , we define $\lVert \theta _ { 1 } - \theta _ { 2 } \rVert : = \operatorname* { m a x } ( \lVert A ( \theta _ { 1 } ) - A ( \theta _ { 2 } ) \rVert , \lVert B ( \theta _ { 1 } ) -$ $B ( \theta _ { 2 } ) \| )$ . We make the following assumptions.

Assumption 2.1 (Parameter uncertainty). The decision maker does not know $\theta ^ { \star }$ , but knows that $\theta ^ { \star } \in \Theta _ { 0 }$ where $\Theta _ { 0 }$ is a convex polytope. Moreover, there exists $\epsilon _ { 0 } > 0$ such that $B ( \theta ^ { * } , \epsilon _ { 0 } ) \subset \Theta _ { 0 }$ .

Assumption 2.2 (Additive disturbance). The sequence $( w _ { t } ) _ { t \geq 0 }$ is i.i.d, and for each $t ~ \geq ~ 0 , ~ w _ { t }$ is zero-mean, isotropic, with support in the ball $B ( 0 , 3 \sigma )$ . Hence, wt is $\sigma ^ { 2 }$ -sub-gaussian. Further define W, a convex polytope providing a conservative approximation of $B ( 0 , 3 \sigma )$ , i.e., $B ( 0 , 3 \sigma ) \subset \mathcal { W }$ .

Assumption 2.3 (State and input constraints). The set

$$\mathcal {C} = \{(x, u) \in \mathbb {R} ^ {d _ {x}} \times \mathbb {R} ^ {d _ {u}}: F x + G u \leq \mathbf {1} \}.$$

is compact and contains the origin in its interior. Here, $F \in \bar { \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { c } \times d _ { x } } }$ and $G \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { c } \times d _ { u } }$ define the state and input constraints respectively. The above inequality holds component-wise, and 1 is the vector with all components equal to 1.

Assumption 2.4 (Stabilizing Controller). There exists a known, robustly stabilizing feedback gain K such that $A ( \theta ) + B ( \theta ) K$ is stable $( \mathrm { i . e . , } \rho ( A ( \theta ) + B ( \theta ) K ) < 1 )$ for all $\theta \in \Theta _ { 0 }$ .
