Faced with the susceptibility of the grid to LA attacks, we propose a mitigation scheme that takes advantage of the EVs’ unique properties against such attacks. EVs can act as distributed batteries and generators that store energy and inject it into the grid using the Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) power flow capability in new EV Charging Stations (EVCSs). EVs are spread throughout the power grid such that their distribution covers most if not all the load buses making them collocated with the attacker-controlled loads. This colocation allows the EVs to mitigate the attacks with minimal disturbance propagation through the grid. Finally, EVCSs have another edge over turbine generators whose reaction time is dictated by their weight, size, and control mechanisms. EVCSs are based on bidirectional power converters [8] that can change their charging rate and toggle between different states almost instantaneously. This makes EVs ideal for responding to LA attacks initiated using IoT loads based on similar converters.

In this paper, we create a wide area H-∞ controller that utilizes EVs to mitigate the impact of the 3 well-known types of LA attacks. The controller synthesis is based on its Linear Matrix Inequality (LMI) formulation and the state-space representation of the grid. The contributions of this paper are:

Developing an EV-based control scheme to mitigate the impact of the 3 known types of LA attacks based on a feedback H-∞ EV-controller formulation.   
Illustrating the effectiveness of the proposed mitigation strategy through time-domain simulations.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II briefly presents the system preliminaries and the related works. Section III discusses the grid model and the mathematical formulation of the EV-based controller. Finally, Section IV discusses the case studies, and Section V concludes the paper.
