The overall strategy adopts a modular design based on [40], where the feedback law is designed to ensure the safety of the multi-agent system (low-level objective) at all times while providing maximum flexibility for the abstract objectives (high-level objective), making safety as an intrinsic part of the system. We break down the objective of achieving safe region formation control (SRFC) into two distinct components. At the high level, we focus on maintaining the desired formation shape maneuvering towards a target region, and velocity tracking. At the low level, our objective is to address collision avoidance and actuator saturation. To achieve these objectives, we integrate a nominal control approach based on an artificial potential function for formation shape, consensus algorithms for connectivity preservation, and the concept of control barrier functions (CBF) as proposed in [41] for collision avoidance. We also use the concept of stealthy leader/leaders (partial access to group reference state) which are agents assumed to have access to information about the target region and reference tracking velocity. They are stealthy in the sense that they have the same dynamics and cannot be distinguished from other agents, providing a certain degree of security. The proposed algorithm ensures connectivity preservation in a distributed way without any knowledge of the total number of agents or any estimation strategy for the second smallest eigenvalue of the Laplacian matrix of the network as used in works like [42].

The remainder of the article is organized as follows. We present our problem formulation in Section 2. The main results are outlined in Section 3, which comprises two sub-sections. Section 3.1 delves into the nominal control approach, while Section 3.2 offers insights into the implementation of safe control and includes a concise introduction to control barrier functions (CBFs). In Section 4, we present simulation results that demonstrate the efficacy of the developed control strategy for a range of scenarios and choices of hyper-parameters. Finally, Section 5 presents the conclusion and future scope of this work.

Notations: We use the notation $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ to denote the set of all $n \times 1$ real vectors. The transpose of a matrix or vector is denoted by $( \cdot ) ^ { T }$ . The $L _ { 2 }$ norm of a vector is denoted by $\lVert . \rVert .$ , whereas the infinity norm of a vector is denoted by $\left\| . \right\| _ { \infty }$ . For any set $( \cdot ) , \partial ( \cdot )$ denotes the set of all the points lying on the boundary of the set (·).
