# B. LA Attack Types and Attacker Model

As mentioned above, LA attacks manipulate actual power consumption to cause harm to the grid [4]. The work in [4] proposed a group of static attacks against the grid using a botnet of compromised high-wattage IoT devices. The presented attacks only required high-level geographic information of the devices’ distribution. By compromising a small portion of the available smart water heaters, the attackers launched their static attack, sudden spike in load, and caused frequency fluctuations, and line tripping. Moreover, the authors of [5] presented a multi-step static attack by launching a series of static attacks based on the grid’s transient condition at each step. This multistep attack requires the attacker to monitor the grid’s transient response to launch the attack steps accordingly.

Switching attacks are another form of LA attacks that can excite certain unstable modes in the power grid such as interarea oscillation [6]. No topology information is required for this attack. However, during the reconnaissance phase, the attacker needs to determine the frequency of an unstable mode existing in the power grid by introducing a small chirp signal and monitoring the grid's response to calculate the impulse response of the system. The loads are then switched on and off at that specific frequency to excite the unstable mode.

The third form of LA attack is the dynamic attack [7]. During the reconnaissance phase, the attacker gathers information about the grid parameters to build the state-space model of the system. This state-space is then used to craft an attack as a feedback controller that shifts the grid’s eigenvalues to unstable operation regions by manipulating the magnitude and oscillation frequency of the compromised load. During the attack in [7], the generators started oscillating against each other and the frequency deviation exceeded the 2.5% deviation limit tripping the generators. The authors of [7] also demonstrated that the success of the attack does not require using 100% accurate grid parameters. However, using inaccurate parameters slightly reduces the attack’s impact.

These examples stress the necessity for a protection mechanism to address these new attack vectors. This is especially true since the world is witnessing an increasing ability of attackers to manipulate high-wattage IoT devices as demonstrated by studies performed in partnership with multiple utilities [5] and cyber security companies [14].
