# I. INTRODUCTION

UMANITY’s increasing reliance on electricity has placed the power grid at the center of any advanced society. To this end, smart technologies have been introduced to support grid operation transforming it into a smart grid [1]. However, this new interconnected grid has become vulnerable to attacks initiated through its new cyberinfrastructure.

The most common attack studied in the literature is the False Data Injection (FDI) attack [2] which tampers with the grid’s measurements to alter the grid’s state estimation and cause operators to take actions that might damage the grid. As a result, multiple attempts have been made to secure the communication layer of the power grid against such attacks [3]. Yet Load-Altering (LA) attacks target the grid’s demand side rather than the state estimation and can only be seen through their impact [4], bypassing the grid’s bad data detection mechanisms. LA attacks are classified into 3 broad subfamilies which are static attacks [4] [5], switching attacks [6], and dynamic attacks [7].

The authors of [4] demonstrated how static attacks, based on a single spike in load, can be initiated by manipulating highwattage home IoT devices to cause line tripping in the grid while remaining unobservable to the utility. The work in [6] relied on the manipulation of distribution feeders to initiate switching attacks while mimicking natural phenomena on the grid which makes them hard to detect. These examples, however, should not overweigh the advantages of the smart grid and its incorporated smart technologies. One such technology is the Electric Vehicle (EV) and its charging infrastructure.
