# C. Computational results and performance

Table I shows the computational results obtained with the different MPC formulations and solvers used in the tests shown in Fig. 2-5. Results for Fig. 2-3 are in the rows labeled with “Harmonic ref.”, and the ones for Fig. 4-5 in the rows labeled with “Generic ref.”. The computation times for HMPC related to Fig. 3 consider $T _ { h } = 0 . 1 T _ { e }$ (as in Fig. 3a). Table I also shows the performance of the formulations, measured as

$$\Psi_ {s} = \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {s T - 1} \| x (t) - x _ {r} (t) \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \| u (t) - u _ {r} (t) \| _ {R} ^ {2}, \tag {11}$$

where we recall that T is the period of the reference.

The performance of HMPC when tracking a harmonic reference is better than with perMPCT when using N = 8. The higher performance of the HMPC formulation when working with small prediction horizons was reported in [15] for the case of tracking constant references. The result indicates that this may also be the case when tracking harmonic references.

The HMPC and perMPCT formulations do not perform as well as equMPC when the reference is admissible. However, the advantage of the HMPC and perMPCT formulations is that they have guaranteed recursive feasibility and a larger domain of attraction. Indeed, we note that the prediction horizon of equMPC was set to N = 16 because any smaller value resulted in a loss of feasibility in the test shown in Fig. 4. The performance results for the tests with non-admissible reference highlight the good performance of the HMPC formulation when compared to perMPCT. The computational results also highlight the good performance of the tailored HMPC solver available in [21]. In particular, the fact that the complexity of the optimization problem does not depend on the period of the reference can provide significant computational benefits.
