Early work in the control community led to a better understanding of the connection between MPC and LQR and to algorithms with recursive feasibility and asymptotic stability guarantees (Mayne et al., 2000). In parallel, the tube MPC framework was developed to achieve the robust satisfaction of constraints in the presence of uncertainties (Mayne et al., 2005). Recently, online MPC algorithms, combining tube MPC and adaptive strategies (to cope with the system uncertainty), have been proposed and shown to ensure recursive feasibility and asymptotic stability (Lorenzen et al., 2017; Lu & Cannon, 2019; Lu et al., 2021), and (Tranos et al., 2022). The learning community has also begun to investigate MPC, again with the aim of providing finite-time regret guarantees (Li et al., 2019; Yu et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2021; Lin et al., 2021; 2022). A key limitation of these analyses is that they are valid only in the absence of constraints which goes against the main motivation of MPC (Bitmead et al., 1990). Furthermore, most of these works assume to have access to (often perfect) system dynamics predictions. And those not making this assumption yield regret bounds having the cost of the oracle as an additive term. In turn, this term may scale linearly with time in the presence of constraints and additive disturbances.

In this work, we present STT-MPC, an adaptive MPC algorithm originally proposed in (Tranos et al., 2022). Inspired by the analysis pipeline of (Lin et al., 2022), we leverage the exponential decay of sensitivity property of the underlying finite-time optimization problem (Shin et al., 2022) to provide upper bounds of the expected regret of the algorithm. Specifically, we show that this regret scales at most as $T ^ { 1 / 2 + \epsilon }$ where $\epsilon \in ( 0 , 1 )$ is a design parameter tuning the persitent excitation component of the algorithm.
