# 5.2 Performance analysis

In this subsection, a comparative analysis between the proposed method and existing methods is depicted. The comparison is shown for both conditions with three individual scenarios.

Condition I. When the input voltage remains constant, the optimized PI controller consistently achieves the shortest settling time compared to other control methods. Interestingly, for the PI controller, the settling time decreases as the desired voltage increases as shown in Fig. 8. The quantitative information on the settling time for different control methods under fixed input voltage conditions is presented in Table 6. The optimized PI controller consistently exhibited the shortest settling time across various scenarios, with the settling time decreasing as the desired voltage increased. This trend indicates the controller’s ability to achieve faster stabilization as the system becomes more aggressive in its response. This behavior can be attributed to the inherent dynamics and characteristics of the system being controlled. This could be due to the system becoming more responsive and active as the desired voltage increases.

However, it’s important to note that this behavior may not be the same in all cases and can depend on the system’s characteristics and control parameters chosen. Different trends are observed when using RL and ANN control methods as depicted in Fig. 8. Among the RL and ANN control methods, the boost converter with RL control performed better in terms of settling time which is quite evident in Table 6. This is because RL has unique learning and decision-making abilities that allow it to adapt and optimize the control policy according to the specific needs and dynamics of the boost converter system.
