Remark 6. The transition probability of p is only assumed to be weakly continuous in Assumption 2, and thus, we cannot guarantee that the map $\hat { H } _ { 1 , n }$ maps $B ( X )$ into itself $\displaystyle { [ 4 \mathcal { B } , }$ pg $9 . 7 .$ This observation motivates our the reason behind the rather large domain of Q functions, namely $B ^ { \ell } ( X )$ , that the extended games $\hat { H } _ { n }$ are defined over.

Now we will describe how to relate the iterations of the extended game to that of the quantized games. Since we can guarantee Borel measurable Q-functions on the iterations of the quantized games, this scheme will also allow us to guarantee the same for the extended games under the same conditions.

For the $n ^ { t h }$ quantized game, under a probability measure $\mu ^ { \mathcal { D } } \in \mathcal { P } ( X _ { n } )$ , when $\beta < 1$ , there exists a unique optimal $Q _ { \mu ^ { \mathcal { D } } }$ function. Extending this value function to X via $\hat { Q } _ { \mu ^ { c } } = Q _ { \mu ^ { D } } \circ ( T _ { n } , I )$ , we see that $\hat { Q } _ { \mu ^ { c } }$ is the optimal $Q$ function for the extended game under the probability measure $\mu ^ { \mathcal { C } }$ . Since $Q _ { \mu ^ { \mathcal { D } } }$ and $( T _ { n } , I )$ are Borel measurable on their respective domains, we obtain that $\hat { Q } _ { \mu ^ { c } }$ is Borel measurable. Uniqueness of the Q function for $\hat { H } _ { 1 , n }$ under the probability measure $\mu ^ { c }$ implies that the optimal $Q$ function for $\hat { H } _ { 1 , n }$ under $\mu ^ { c }$ must be Borel measurable. This also implies that the corresponding ergodicity operator is also defined via Borel measurable policy. This argument will also give us a method to find mean-field equilibrium for the extended game.

The above observation will allow us to obtain a mean-field equilibrium with a Borel measurable optimal for the extended mean-field games rather than a mean-field equilibrium with a lower-semi analytic optimal policy through value iteration algorithm. Since lower-semi analytic policies are not necessarily Borel measurable, for convenience, we will restrict ourselves to the Borel measurable ones.

Definition 4. We will call a Borel (measurable) policy π and a state-measure $\mu$ on X a mean-field equilibrium for the extended game, if π is optimal for the optimal Q function, $Q _ { \mu }$ , of $\dot { H } _ { 1 , n }$ under µ and µ is a fixed point of the ergodicity operator $\hat { H } _ { 2 , n } ( Q _ { \mu } , \mu )$ .
