# 2.1. Two Approaches: With or without Measure Transformation.

2.1.1. Without measure transformation. In one approach, presented extensively by several seminal studies by Kushner and collaborators [35, 32, 31] as well as others such as Borkar [9], one considers the following. Given the above, let us introduce a parametric family of elliptic operator, which will be useful in our analysis. With $\zeta \in \mathbb { U }$ treated as a parameter, we define a family of operators $\mathcal { L } _ { \zeta }$ mapping $\mathcal { C } ^ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ to ${ \mathcal { C } } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ by

$$\mathcal {L} _ {\zeta} f (x) := \operatorname{Tr} \bigl (a (x) \nabla^ {2} f (x) \bigr) + b (x, \zeta) \cdot \nabla f (x).$$

In the following theorem, we follow [35, 32, 31] but under relatively weaker conditions, e.g., b is jointly continuous and σ is locally Lipschitz continuous.

Theorem 2.1. Suppose that Assumptions (A1) and (A2) hold. If $m ^ { n } $ m weakly as $n  \infty$ , with $X ^ { n }$ is the solution of (2.1) under the policy $m ^ { n }$ , i.e., it satisfies

$$d X _ {t} ^ {n} = b (X _ {t} ^ {n}, m _ {t} ^ {n}) d t + \sigma (X _ {t} ^ {n}) d W _ {t}$$

Then the solution process $X ^ { n }$ converges weakly to X which is a unique solution of

$$d X _ {t} = b (X _ {t}, m _ {t}) d t + \sigma (X _ {t}) d W _ {t}.$$

Proof. We will follow Kushner’s weak convergence approach (see e.g. [32]), with a slightly different presentation. Let $m ^ { n } $ m weakly as n → ∞.

Let $X ^ { n }$ be the unique weak solution of (2.1) (see [1, Theorem 2.2.11]) corresponding to the control $m ^ { n }$ . Suppose $p , q$ and $t _ { i } \ \leq \ s$ for $i \ \leq \ p$ are arbitrary and $\Phi \in \mathcal { C } _ { c } \bigl ( ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } ) ^ { p } \times ( \mathbb { R } ) ^ { p q } \bigr ) , \psi _ { j } \in \mathcal { C } \left( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { U } \right)$ for $j \le q$ . Then by standard martingale characterization of the solution of the SDE (2.1), by Itˆo formula and standard monotone class argument as in [1, p. 41] (see also, [23, Proposition 2.1, p. 169]), we get

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathbb {E} _ {x} ^ {m ^ {n}} \left[ \Phi \left(X _ {t _ {i}} ^ {n}, \int_ {0} ^ {t _ {i}} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} \psi_ {j} (s, \zeta) m _ {s} ^ {n} (d \zeta) \lambda (d s), i \leq p, j \leq q\right) \left(f (X _ {t} ^ {n}) - f (X _ {s} ^ {n}) \right. \right. \\ \left. \left. - \int_ {s} ^ {t} \mathscr {L} _ {\zeta} f (X _ {s} ^ {n}) m _ {s} ^ {n} (d \zeta) \lambda (d s)\right) \right] = 0, \tag {2.5} \\ \end{array}
$$
