# B. Multi-Agent RL Frameworks

As presented in Section III-D, the quadrotor dynamics can be decomposed into translational and yawing parts, each exhibiting distinct dynamic characteristics: (i) The objective in controlling the translational dynamics is to adjust the resultant thrust by changing the thrust magnitude $f ,$ while rotating the third body-fixed axis $b _ { 3 }$ to control the direction of the thrust. This is achieved by the difference in thrusts between rotors on opposite sides. (ii) The yawing control aims to adjust the heading direction that is irrelevant to the translational dynamics, using the small reactive torque of each rotor. The yawing direction should be carefully adjusted as any aggressive yawing maneuver may amplify the undesired effects caused by large modeling errors in the reactive torque model, potentially jeopardizing the translational dynamics. As such, the translational motion control, which is critical for the overall performance and safety, should be prioritized over the yawing control [4], [16].

In the SARL framework, it is challenging to take account of these considerations in the training and execution, as it is supposed to complete both tasks with distinct characteristics simultaneously. To address this, this work proposes assigning a dedicated agent to each controllable part, as depicted in Figure 1. Specifically, the first agent, based on equations (12)–(15), is responsible for controlling the translational motion, primarily minimizing position errors. The second agent, based on equations (16)–(17), controls the yaw motion by minimizing heading errors. During training, each agent receives local observations $\left( o _ { 1 } , o _ { 2 } \right)$ and individual rewards $( r _ { 1 } , r _ { 2 } )$ based on the control performance of the quadrotor.

The agents then independently select their actions $( a _ { 1 } , a _ { 2 } )$ according to their policy networks. The resulting joint action $( f , \tau , M _ { 3 } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 5 }$ is converted to the total force and moments, $( f , M _ { 1 } , M _ { 2 } , M _ { 3 } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 4 }$ where $M _ { 1 } = b _ { 1 } ^ { T } \tau + J _ { 3 } W _ { 2 } W _ { 3 }$ and $M _ { 2 } = b _ { 2 } ^ { T } \tau - J _ { 3 } W _ { 3 } W _ { 1 }$ . Lastly, actual motor thrust commands $( T _ { 1 } , T _ { 2 } , T _ { 3 } , T _ { 4 } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 4 }$ are computed by the mixer in (11).

This work presents two multi-agent frameworks depending on the degree of information sharing between the two agents:
