$$\sup _ {y \in \Omega} | h (y) - C \sigma (A y + b) | \leq \epsilon .$$

Since, due to d-homogeneity of h, we have

$$h (x) = \| x \| _ {\mathbf {d}} ^ {\nu} h (\underbrace {\mathbf {d} (- \ln \| x \| _ {\mathbf {d}}) x} _ {= y \in \Omega}), \quad \forall x \neq \mathbf {0},$$

then the estimate (12) holds for $h _ { \epsilon }$ given by (13).

The key feature of the homogeneous ANN is a global approximation based on local measurements. Indeed, by the formula (13) the homogeneous ANN uses the conventional ANN $C \sigma ( A \pi _ { \mathbf { d } } + b )$ with the input $\pi _ { \mathbf { d } } = \mathbf { d } ( - \ln \| x \| _ { \mathbf { d } } ) x$ being compactly supported on the unit sphere $\{ \pi \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } : \| \pi \| _ { \mathbf { d } } = 1 \}$ in $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . The classical universal approximation theorem (see Theorem 2) guarantees the error estimate (10) only on this compact. Due to homogeneity, any local estimate of the homogeneous function can be extended globally (see (12)). The approximation error in this case depends of the norm of the vector x and the homogeneity degree ν of the function h. If $\nu > 0$ then, due to Proposition 1, h is continuous at 0 and the above error estimate holds at zero as well. For $\nu < 0$ the function h is discontinuous and unbounded at 0. In this case, the approximation error may grow to infinity as $x \to 0$ . For $\nu = 0$ the error is estimated uniformly on $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ .

Usually algorithms of ANN learning optimize the parameters $A , b , C$ based on available measurements

$$y _ {j} = h (x _ {j}), \quad j = 1, \dots , M,$$

where M is a number of experiments. Mathematically, the goal of the ANN learning is to minimize a norm of the residual

$$e _ {j} = y _ {j} - \| x _ {j} \| _ {\mathbf {d}} ^ {\nu} C \sigma (A \mathbf {d} (- \ln \| x _ {j} \| _ {\mathbf {d}}) x _ {j} + b). \tag {14}$$

It is worth stressing that the homogeneous ANN has structurally the same dependence on the parameters A, b, C. So, all conventional learning algorithms are applicable for its training. Their study goes out of the scope of this paper since, due to the similarity in structures of ANN and homogeneous ANN, all main advantages and disadvantages of the corresponding methods will be the same in our case. The aim of this paper is to demonstrate that the use of dilation symmetry in ANN design may improve the approximation precision of ANN provided that the mapping, which needs to be approximated, is homogeneous.
