The idea is now to push the dependence in the dynamics to a dependence in the cost. Such an application arises in mean-field models. In this case, by Lemma 2.5 we obtained on the continuous dependence of the Radon-Nikodym derivative on control policies will be useful. As in Section 2.1.2, we define a relaxed wide-sense admissible control policy by first placing the Young topology on the control action space, by viewing the control process to be a probability measure on $C ( [ 0 , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d } ) \times \mathcal { P } _ { \lambda } ( [ 0 , T ] \times$ Ui) with its fixed marginal on $C ( [ 0 , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ to be the Wiener measure . We require also that mi[0,t] $m _ { [ 0 , t ] } ^ { i }$ be independent of $W _ { s } ^ { i } - W _ { t } ^ { i } , s > t$ for every $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ and independent from $m ^ { j } , W _ { s } ^ { j } , ~ j \neq i , s \in [ 0 , T ]$ . We call again such policies decentralized locally wide sense admissible policies, and denote with UDWS. Without loss of generality, a typical element of UDWS is denoted by $\mathbf { m } = ( m ^ { 1 } , \cdots , m ^ { N } )$ . Also, it is easy to see that in the trasformed model, the measure on the path space is fixed .

Now, following the analysis in Theorem 2.7, 4.1, we have the following theorem, which proves the existence of a team optimal policy and near optimality of piece-wise constant control policy .

Theorem 4.2. Suppose that Assumptions $( { \hat { D } } 1 ) , ( { \hat { D } } 2 )$ and $( \hat { D 3 } )$ hold. Then, (i) The total cost

$$\mathcal {J} _ {T} (x, \mathbf {m}) = \mathbb {E} _ {x} ^ {\mathbf {m}} \left[ \hat {Z} _ {T} \bigg (\int_ {0} ^ {T} c (\mathbf {X} _ {t}, m _ {t} ^ {1}, \dots , m ^ {N}) d t + c _ {T} (\mathbf {X} _ {T}) \bigg) \right], \tag {4.9}$$

is continuous over the space of wide-sense admissible policies UDWS.

(ii) There exists an optimal control policy in UDWS.   
(iii) For every $\epsilon > 0$ , there exists an ordinary piece-wise constant control policy in UDWS which is ǫ-optimal.
