# 3.2 Homogenization of ANN with known homogeneity parameters

By the universal approximation theorem, the ANN is a local approximator of a function, but the homogeneous ANN is a global approximator of a homogeneous function. The transformation of the ANN to a homogeneous ANN can be interpreted as global homogeneous extrapolation of the ANN. In this subsection, we consider the simplest case, when the homogeneity parameters $( G _ { \mathbf { d } }$ and ν) are assumed to be known. In the next section, the problem of homogeneous extrapolation is studied under parametric uncertainty.

We assume that a conventional ANN (11) is already well trained such that the approximation error (10) is somehow minimized. The linear dilation and the homogeneity degree are assumed to be known. We need to transform the classical ANN (11) to the homogeneous ANN (13).

Proposition 2 Let $\Omega \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be a compact set. Let $g _ { \epsilon }$ be ANN (11) approximating a function $h \in C ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \backslash \{ \mathbf { 0 } \} , \mathbb { R } )$ on the compact $\Omega \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ with an error $\epsilon > 0 , \ i . e .$ , the inequality (10) is fulfilled for $g = h$ . Let the function h be d-homogeneous of degree $\nu \in \mathbb { R }$ . If there exists a norm $\| \cdot \|$ in $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ such that

$$S = \{x \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}: \| x \| = 1 \} \subset \operatorname{int} \Omega \tag {15}$$

and the dilation d be monotone with respect to $\| \cdot \|$ , then the homogeneous ANN (13) with parameters $A , b , C$ taken from the conventional ANN (11) satisfies the error estimate (12), where $\| \cdot \| _ { \mathbf { d } }$ is the canonical homogeneous norm induced $b y$ $\| \cdot \|$ .

Proof. By construction the homogeneous ANN $h _ { \epsilon }$ coincides with the original ANN $h _ { \epsilon }$ on the unit sphere, i.e.,

$$h _ {\epsilon} (y) = g _ {\epsilon} (y), \quad \forall y \in S.$$

This means that

$$| g (y) - g _ {\epsilon} (y) | = | h (y) - h _ {\epsilon} (y) | \leq \epsilon , \quad \forall y \in S.$$

Since $\| \cdot \| _ { \mathbf { d } }$ is a canonical homogeneous norm induced by the norm $\| \cdot \|$ then $y = \mathbf { d } ( - \ln \Vert x \Vert _ { \mathbf { d } } ) x \in S$ for all $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \backslash \{ \mathbf { 0 } \}$ and using the homogeneity we derive

$$\frac {| h (x) - h _ {\epsilon} (x) |}{\| x \| _ {\mathbf {d}} ^ {- \nu}} \leq | h (\mathbf {d} (- \ln \| x \| _ {\mathbf {d}}) x) - h _ {\epsilon} (- \ln \| x \| _ {\mathbf {d}}) x) | \leq \epsilon .$$
