With $\textstyle n = { \frac { 1 } { h } }$ , the above define a discrete-time POMDP with transition kernel $\mathcal { T } _ { n }$ and cost function ${ \tilde { c } } _ { n }$ . Following the proof technique as in Theorem 5.1 (and Theorem 2.7), we obtain the following near- optimality result for partially observable model .

Theorem 5.2. Suppose that Assumptions $( A I )$ and (A2) hold . Then

(i) The optimal value of the discrete-time model convergences to the optimal value of the original continuous-time model.   
(ii) For every $\epsilon > 0 ,$ there exists $h > 0$ so that the solution of the discrete-time approximation gives a policy which is near optimal for the original continuoustime model.

The result above, however, while involves discrete-time control and state, requires having access to the path-valued measurements. It would be desirable to obtain a discrete-time model with discrete-time measurements $Y _ { k h }$ in the original measurement space. That is, at time $k h$ , we would like to have $U _ { k h } = \gamma ( Y _ { i h } , i \in \{ 0 , 1 , \cdot \cdot \cdot , k \} )$ under an admissible policy γ (which is a ${ \mathcal { P } } ( \mathbb { U } )$ valued measurable map) . The following result, building on Lusin’s theorem, achieves this. The method involves:

• Establishing a new probability space where measurements are independent from the state process.   
• Demonstrating that any measurable policy remains continuous on a set with measure $( 1 - \epsilon )$ for any $\epsilon > 0$ within the measurement process space.   
• Defining the measurement process at each discrete sample point and then considering the discretized measurements.

As in Section 3, we apply measure transformation but to the discrete-time model (5.4), then we obtain the equivalent discrete-time model below:

$$
\begin{array}{l} X _ {(k + 1) h} = X _ {k h} + \int_ {k h} ^ {(k + 1) h} b (X _ {s}, U _ {k h}) d s + \int_ {k h} ^ {(k + 1) h} \sigma (X _ {s}) d W _ {s} \\ Y _ {t} = Y _ {k h} + \int_ {k h} ^ {t} d B _ {s}, \quad t \in [ k h, (k + 1) h) \end{array} \tag {5.6}
$$
