Now, by the martingale characterization as in [1, Theorem 2.2.9], we have X is a unique weak solution of (2.1) under the limiting policy m . We thus conclude that the path measure is weakly continuous in the control policy. ⋄

Remark 2.1. In view of [1, Theorem 2.2.2], it is easy to see that we can relax the uniform boundedness assumption in (A1), which is used to prove the tightness of the sequence of solutions, to local Lipschitz continuity condition with linear growth (see $\displaystyle { \int } 1$ Corollary 2.3.9]).

Thus, the map from m to the associated solution of the SDE 2.1 is continuous under the topology defined on URC. The problem is to find an optimal $m \in { \mathfrak { U } } _ { \mathsf { R C } }$ which minimizes (2.3). From this, one can, as in the deterministic case summarized in [39, Section 7.1], arrive at general conditions for the existence of an optimal solution. We can rewrite the cost as

$$\mathcal {J} _ {T} (x, m) = \mathbb {E} _ {x} ^ {m} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m _ {s} (d \zeta) \lambda (d s) + c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \right] \tag {2.6}$$

with $\mathcal { I } _ { T } ( x , \cdot )$ : URC $\to \mathbb { R }$ . Next theorem proves that the total cost as a function of policy is continuous .

Theorem 2.2. Suppose that Assumptions (A1) and (A2) hold. Then, the map

$$m \mapsto \mathcal {J} _ {T} (x, m)$$

from URC to R is continuous.

Proof. The continuity of $\mathcal { I } _ { T }$ in m can be established again via the Skorohod representation argument presented in the proof of Theorem 2.1. Let $m ^ { n }  m$ weakly as $n \to \infty$ . Once again, by a tightness argument, and by Theorem 2.1, we have that as $m ^ { n } \to m$ , then the associated solutions $X ^ { n }  X$ (weakly) which is the solution of the SDE (2.1) corresponding to the policy m. By considering a subsequence where both converge weakly, by Skorohod’s representation theorem (see [6, Theorem 6.7]), we deduce that over a common probability space $m ^ { n } ( \omega )  m ( \omega )$ weakly as a $\mathcal { P } _ { \lambda } ( [ 0 , T ] \times$ U)-valued process and $X ^ { n } ( \omega )  X ( \omega )$ as a $\mathcal { C } ( [ 0 , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ -valued process, almost surely (in ω). Then, by the generalized dominated convergence [42, Theorem 3.5], we deduce that the expected cost

$$\mathbb {E} _ {x} ^ {m ^ {n}} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s} ^ {n}, \zeta) m _ {s} ^ {n} (d \zeta) \lambda (d s) + c _ {T} (X _ {T} ^ {n}) \right]$$

converges to
