# A. Single-Agent Reinforcement Learning

Reinforcement learning is a subset of machine learning in which the decision-maker, called an agent, learns to make optimal decisions (or actions) through a process of trial and error. This learning process involves the agent interacting with an environment and occasionally receiving feedback in the form of rewards. The Markov Decision Process (MDP) offers a formal framework for modeling decision-making problems, formalized by a tuple $\mathcal { M } ~ = ~ ( \mathcal { S } , \mathcal { A } , \mathcal { R } , \mathcal { T } , \gamma )$ , where  and  are the state and action spaces, respectively. The reward function is denoted by $\mathcal { R } : \mathcal { S } \times \mathcal { A } $ R, and the transition probability function as $\mathcal { T } : \mathcal { S } \times \mathcal { A }  \mathcal { P } ( \mathcal { S } )$ specified by $s _ { t + 1 } \sim P ( s _ { t + 1 } | s _ { t } , a _ { t } )$ in a discrete-time setting.

The behavior of the agent is determined by its policy. At each time step t, the agent selects its action $a _ { t }$ according to a policy $\pi ( a _ { t } | s _ { t } )$ , which is the probability distribution of the action conditioned on the state $s _ { t }$ . The common objective is to maximize the expected return,

$$J (\pi) = \mathbb {E} _ {\tau \sim \pi} [ \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} \gamma^ {t} r (s _ {t}, a _ {t}) ], \tag {1}$$

where $\gamma \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ is a discount factor, and a trajectory $\tau =$ $( s _ { 0 } , a _ { 0 } , \cdot \cdot \cdot , s _ { T } , a _ { T } )$ is a sequence of state-action pairs. Thus, the optimal policy $\pi ^ { * }$ can be expressed as

$$\pi^ {*} = \underset {\pi} {\arg \max} J (\pi). \tag {2}$$

Alternatively, the optimality is often formulated through a state-value function $V ^ { \pi } : { \mathcal { S } }  \mathbb { R }$ according to the policy π,

$$V ^ {\pi} (s) = \mathbb {E} _ {\tau \sim \pi} [ \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} \gamma^ {t} r (s _ {t}, a _ {t}) | s _ {0} = s ], \tag {3}$$

Instead, it is often useful to introduce an action-value function $Q ^ { \pi } : \mathcal { S } \times \mathcal { A }  \mathbb { R }$ , also known as a Q-value, which corresponds to the value conditioned not only on the current state but also on the chosen action, i.e.,

$$Q ^ {\pi} (s, a) = \mathbb {E} _ {\tau \sim \pi} [ \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} \gamma^ {t} r (s _ {t}, a _ {t}) | s _ {0} = s, a _ {0} = a ]. \tag {4}$$

In general, $V ^ { \pi } ( s )$ and $Q ^ { \pi } ( s , a )$ are constructed and updated by the Bellman equation in a recursive way. In the context of deep reinforcement learning, the policy and value functions are designed as neural networks.
