We require that the control process $\{ U _ { t } \}$ be adapted to the filtration generated by the observation process $\{ Y _ { t } \}$ ; that is, for each $t \in [ 0 , T ] , U _ { t }$ is $\sigma ( Y _ { s } , 0 \leq s \leq t ) .$ - measurable. We will call such policies (strict-sense or precise) admissible policies. In [18], Fleming and Pardoux introduced another class of policies which they named to be wide-sense admissible policies. Using this relaxed class of policies, they studied the existence of optimal policies to the above problem.

The idea is again to first apply Girsanov’s transformation so that the measurements $Y _ { t }$ form an independent Wiener process under new probability measure $Q$ . Following Fleming and Pardoux $[ 1 8 , \mathrm { ~ p . ~ } 2 6 4 ] ,$ , we define an admissible control as a probability measure on $C ( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { R } ^ { M } ) \times \mathcal { P } _ { \lambda } \overset { \cdot } { ( } [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { U } )$ with its fixed marginal on $\mathsf { \bar { C } } ( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathsf { \bar { R } } ^ { M } )$ be the Wiener measure. In addition, under the new measure $Q , Y _ { r } - Y _ { t }$ is independent of $\left\{ X _ { 0 } , W . , Y _ { s } , m _ { s } ; s \leq t \right\}$ , for any $0 \leq t \leq r \leq T$ . The latter condition states that actions up to time t are independent of the observations after time t given past observations and actions. In other words, instead of saying that actions should be dependent on current and past observations, this condition states that actions should be independent of future observations given past observations and actions. Let UWS denote the space of such policies, where we endow this space with the weak convergence topology. As in Lemma 2.4, we have UWS is compact under weak convergence topology . Without loss of generality, a typical element of UWS is denoted by m.

Let

$$G _ {t} := e ^ {\int_ {0} ^ {t} g (X _ {s}) d Y _ {s} - \frac {1}{2} \int_ {0} ^ {t} | g (X _ {s}) | ^ {2} d s}$$

with $\begin{array} { r } { \int _ { 0 } ^ { t } g ( X _ { s } ) d Y _ { s } } \end{array}$ being a stochastic integral with respect to the random process $Y _ { s }$ . Since g is bounded, by Novikov’s criterion (see [23, Theorem 5.3 p. 152]), we have $\big \{ G _ { t } \big \}$ is a nonnegative martingale with mean one. Therefore it is legal family of

Radon-Nikodym derivatives . Now by Girsanov’s theorem, we define the probability measure $Q$ as follows: (for details see [18])

$$\frac {d \mathbb {P}}{d Q} := G _ {T},$$

under this new measure $Q$ we get an equivalent model
