$$\mathbb {E} _ {x} ^ {m} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m _ {s} (d \zeta) \lambda (d s) + c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \right].$$

Next, using the above continuity result we want to prove the near optimality of piece-wise constant policies . These policies break the time horizon into smaller intervals, during which the policy remains constant. This means that within each interval, the action taken or the decision made does not change, but it can switch to a different action or decision at the boundaries of these intervals. Piece-wise constant policies are useful because they simplify the decision-making process by reducing the number of times the policy needs to be updated. They play important role in scenarios where frequent policy changes are impractical or costly.

Theorem 2.3. Suppose that Assumptions (A1) and (A2) hold. Then

(i) There exists an optimal control policy in URC .   
(ii) For every $\epsilon > 0$ , there exists an ordinary piece-wise constant control policy in URC (thus also non-anticipative) which is ǫ-optimal.

Proof. Note that the space URC is compact, thus existence follows from Theorem 2.2.

From [1, Theorem 2.3.1], we know that the set of ordinary non-anticipative measures with quantized support (where both time and control variables are discretized into finite sets of values) is dense in $\mathcal { P } _ { \lambda } ( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { U } )$ . Thus, by the continuity of the cost as a function of policies (as we have established in Theorem 2.2), we obtain our result . □

Remark 2.2. Since the map m to the corresponding solution X of the stochastic differential equation (SDE) is continuous (see Theorem 2.1). To demonstrate the existence and approximation result as outlined in Theorem 2.3, it suffices to assume that both the running cost c and the terminal cost $c _ { T }$ are bounded and lower semicontinuous. Given this assumption of lower semicontinuity, we can apply Fatou’s lemma to show that the map $m  \mathcal { I } _ { T } ( x , m )$ is lower semicontinuous. Consequently, the result is derived from the compactness of the policy space URC.

2.1.2. With measure transformation. In an alternative approach, we consider the state process to be exogenous and the control only impacting the cost function. For the analysis of this subsection, we assume the following regularity conditions for the cost functions:
