DTDE Structure. The first scheme involves Decentralized Training with Decentralized Execution, in which each agent learns its own policy without any communication with the other agent. Each agent perceives its observations, $o _ { 1 } =$ $( e _ { x } , e _ { I _ { x } } , e _ { v } , b _ { 3 } , e _ { \omega _ { 1 2 } } ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { 1 5 }$ and $o _ { 2 } \ = \ ( b _ { 1 } , e _ { \Omega _ { 3 } } ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { 4 } .$ , respectively, and independently chooses its own action, $a _ { 1 } =$ $( f , \tau ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 4 }$ and $a _ { 2 } = M _ { 3 } \in \mathbb { R }$ , to maximize the individual reward defined by

$$
\begin{array}{l} r _ {1} = - k _ {x} \| e _ {x} \| ^ {2} - k _ {I _ {x}} \| e _ {I _ {x}} \| ^ {2} - k _ {v} \| e _ {v} \| ^ {2} - k _ {b _ {3}} \| e _ {b _ {3}} \| \\ - k _ {\omega_ {1 2}} \left\| e _ {\omega_ {1 2}} \right\| ^ {2} - r _ {\mathrm{crash}}, \\ \end{array}
r _ {2} = - k _ {b _ {1}} \left\| e _ {b _ {1}} \right\| - k _ {I _ {b _ {1}}} \left\| e _ {I _ {b _ {1}}} \right\| - k _ {\Omega_ {3}} \left\| e _ {\Omega_ {3}} \right\| ^ {2} - r _ {\text { crash }}.$$

where $e _ { b _ { 3 } } \in ( 0 , \pi ]$ is the error between $b _ { 3 _ { d } }$ and third bodyfixed axis $b _ { 3 }$ for stabilization.

CTDE Structure. In the second strategy, the two agents exchange experience during training but act independently during execution. They cooperate with each other to achieve the desired quadrotor motion by jointly optimizing their actions through centralized critic networks. Each agent’s centralized critic network takes both agents’ observations and actions, $( o _ { 1 } , a _ { 1 } , o _ { 2 } , a _ { 2 } )$ , as input, and outputs each actionvalue function representing the expected return of the two agents. Each agent then updates its policy using its actionvalue function and makes independent decisions. Note that CTDE and DTDE share the same observations $\left( o _ { 1 } , o _ { 2 } \right)$ , actions $( a _ { 1 } , a _ { 2 } )$ , rewards $( r _ { 1 } , r _ { 2 } )$ , and network architectures.
