Training Method. We trained our models for 1.5 million timesteps on a GPU workstation powered by NVIDIA A100- PCIE-40GB, without pre-training or any auxiliary aid techniques such as PID controllers. To encourage exploration, we randomly selected all states of each episode from predefined distributions, e.g., randomly placing the quadrotor in 3m × 3m×3m space. During training and evaluation, both state and action were normalized to [−1, 1] to speed up the training process while improving stability. Similarly, we normalized each step’s reward to [0, 1] to ensure convergence. The learning rate was scheduled with SGDR [21] to avoid overfitting, and the exploration noise was linearly decayed.

Domain Randomization. RL models trained in simulators often suffer from performance degradation when deployed in different simulation environments or the real world. This arises from discrepancies between the training and testing environments, caused by parametric uncertainties or unmodeled dynamics. Domain randomization is one of the promising

TABLE I: Hyperparameters.

<table><tr><td>Parameter</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td>Optimizer</td><td>AdamW</td></tr><tr><td>Learning rate</td><td> $1 \times 10^{-4} \rightarrow 1 \times 10^{-6}$ </td></tr><tr><td>Discount factor,  $\gamma$ </td><td>0.99</td></tr><tr><td>Replay buffer size</td><td> $10^{6}$ </td></tr><tr><td>Batch size</td><td>256</td></tr><tr><td>Maximum global norm</td><td>100</td></tr><tr><td>Exploration noise</td><td> $0.3 \rightarrow 0.05$ </td></tr><tr><td>Target policy noise</td><td>0.2</td></tr><tr><td>Policy noise clip</td><td>0.5</td></tr><tr><td>Target update interval</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>Target smoothing coefficient</td><td>0.005</td></tr></table>

TABLE II: Quadrotor nominal parameters.

<table><tr><td>Parameter</td><td>Nominal Value</td></tr><tr><td>Mass, m</td><td>2.15 kg</td></tr><tr><td>Arm length, d</td><td>0.23 m</td></tr><tr><td>Moment of inertia, J</td><td>(0.022, 0.022, 0.035) kg  $m^{2}$ </td></tr><tr><td>Torque-to-thrust coefficient,  $c_{\tau f}$ </td><td>0.0135</td></tr><tr><td>Thrust-to-weight coefficients,  $c_{tw}$ </td><td>2.2</td></tr></table>

methods to bridge the resulting sim-to-sim or sim-to-real gap, where the properties of the training environment are randomized to allow the agent to adapt and generalize across varying conditions [10]. In this paper, at the beginning of each training episode, the physical parameters were randomly sampled from a uniform distribution within a ±5% range around the nominal values listed in Table II.
