where $\mathbb { E } _ { x , \mathbb { P } _ { 0 } } ^ { m }$ is the expectation with respect to the probability measure $\mathbb { P } _ { 0 }$

In view of the above discussions it follows that in the transformed model $( \mathrm { i . e . } ,$ under $\mathbb { P } _ { 0 } )$ , the solution of the SDE does not depend on the choice of control policy . Thus, one wishes to minimize

$$\inf _ {m \in \mathfrak {U} _ {\mathrm{WRC}}} \mathbb {E} _ {x, \mathbb {P} _ {0}} ^ {m} \left[ \frac {d \mathbb {P} _ {T}}{d \mathbb {P} _ {0 T}} \bigg (\int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m _ {s} (d \zeta) \lambda (d s) + c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \bigg) \right]. \tag {2.7}$$

Remark 2.3 (Comparison between the approaches: With measure transformation vs. without measure transformation). Note that in the measure transformation case the measure on the path space of the solution of the SDE is control-free and thus fixed, so the set of measures in $\mathcal { P } ( C ( [ 0 , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d } ) )$ characterizing law of the solution of the SDE is a singleton. There is no need for establishing tightness towards showing Theorem $2 . 1 ,$ unlike the approach without measure transformation presented above. In the latter approach, this is not needed and the analysis is purely probabilistic, even though a new lemma on the continuity of the reduced cost under the transformed strategic measure, Lemma 2.5, is needed. This approach brings about versatility for studying more general information structures, as we will see in the later sections. However, for the measure transformation, $\sigma ( \cdot )$ is not allowed to depend on control. As we show later in this paper, the Girsanov’s change of measure technique allows us to tackle stochastic control problems with a variety of information structures, e.g., fully observable, partially observable, and decentralized information. It is important to note that the former approach (without measure transformation) could be extended to the degenerate case, control dependent σ and infinite dimensional problems, etc. Note that in the former approach, one has to show that the set on the path space changes continuously with the control convergence (that is, law of the solution depends on $m )$ . This requires a martingale characterization of the solution process and a tedious stochastic analysis.
