# 1.1 State of the art

The universal approximation theorems [4], [10], [9] put limits on what artificial neural networks (ANNs) can theoretically learn. These theorems guarantee the existence of ANN, which approximates a continuous function on a compact set with an arbitrary high precision. A training of the ANN is based a compactly supported data as well, while, the trained ANN may be utilized next as a predictor of the function value for an input data, which does not belong to the training set. Sometimes, the new input may be have a rather large distance even from a convex hull of the training set. In the latter case, the ANN is utilized as an extrapolator of the function and the approximation theorems are not applicable. Moreover, the analysis of the extrapolation error is impossible if there is no information about the function away from the training set. Therefore, a global extrapolation of a function based on a local data can be provided only under additional assumption about the class of functions approximated by ANN. This paper deals with approximation of the so-called generalized homogeneous functions [24], [12], [2], [21] and introduces the corresponding homogeneous artificial neural network, which key feature is a global approximation based on local data.

The generalized homogeneity is a symmetry of an object (a function, a set, a vector field, etc) with respect to a group of the so-called generalized dilations. Recall that the standard (classical) homogeneity were introduced by
