# C. Policy Regularization

Despite the recent success of RL in quadrotor control, a key challenge remains: trained agents often generate control signals with high-frequency oscillations and discontinuities that are impossible to implement in hardware experiments. This may lead to poor control performance and even hardware failure. A common way to address this is reward engineering, where undesirable behavior is mitigated by tuning the parameters of the reward function. However, this process is often non-intuitive and does not provide any guarantee that the policy will be trained in the desired way, as the agent learns through indirect information from the reward function.

To address this, [18] introduced two regularization terms directly optimizing action policies. First, a temporal smoothness term, ${ \cal L } _ { T } = { \cal D } \big ( \pi ( s _ { t } ) , \pi ( s _ { t + 1 } ) \big )$ , penalizes the policy when subsequent actions differ from previous actions to preserve control smoothness over time t. Here, D denotes a Euclidean distance measure, i.e., $D ( a _ { 1 } , a _ { 2 } ) = | | a _ { 1 } - a _ { 2 } | | _ { 2 }$ . Next, a spatial smoothness term, $L _ { S } = D \big ( \pi ( s _ { t } ) , \pi ( \bar { s } _ { t } ) \big )$ , encourages that the selected action does not change drastically when the state is perturbed, where the perturbed state $\bar { s } _ { t }$ is sampled from the normal distribution $\mathcal { N } ( s _ { t } , \sigma )$ for $\sigma > 0$ .

However, we observed that the agents trained with these regularization terms occasionally generate excessive motor thrust in their attempts to rapidly minimize position and yawing errors. This is because $L _ { T }$ and $L _ { S }$ do not take into account the magnitude of control signals. Thus, we propose a magnitude regulation term to avoid aggressive controls,

$$L _ {M} = D \big (\pi (s _ {t}), \bar {a} \big), \tag {20}$$

where a¯ is a nominal action. For example, the nominal action of SARL is selected as $\hat { T } = 0 . 2 5 m g$ , the thrust of each rotor required for hovering. In contrast, for DTDE and CTDE, the torques are set to zero, i.e., $\bar { \tau } = \bar { M _ { 3 } } = 0$ , with $\bar { f } = m g$ . This not only reduces power consumption but also avoids rapid heading control. In addition, by constraining $\pi ( s _ { t } )$ around a¯, the exploration space of possible actions is restricted to a smaller range. This leads to faster learning, as the action policy can focus on a smaller set of possibilities.

Thus, the policy optimization function in (1) is augmented with these regularization terms into

$$\hat {J} (\pi) = J (\pi) - \lambda_ {T} L _ {T} - \lambda_ {S} L _ {S} - \lambda_ {M} L _ {M}. \tag {21}$$

where $\lambda > 0 \in \mathbb { R }$ are regularization weights.
