MARL for Quadrotor Control. While multi-agent RL has received significant attention in quadrotor applications, the primary focus has been on higher-level decision-making for multiple quadrotors, including cooperative trajectory planning and formation control while ensuring collision avoidance [12], [13], [14]. Notably, a cascade MARL lowlevel control framework for a quadrotor has been proposed in [15] by decomposing quadrotor dynamics into six onedimensional subsystems. However, their approach aims to train multiple single agents independently through traditional SARL algorithms, implying that each subsystem is controlled by a separate agent rather than operating in a cooperative manner. Moreover, they decomposed the dynamics under the assumption of small-angle maneuvers, which limits its applicability to complex scenarios involving large rotations.

Quadrotor Decoupled Yaw Control. A geometric control system with decoupled yaw was proposed in [4], where the quadrotor attitude dynamics is decomposed into two distinct components: the roll/pitch part, which controls thrust direction, and the yaw part, responsible for heading direction. This was further extended in [16] by integrating adaptive control terms to address uncertainties and disturbances. Relying on the Lyapunov stability, these works should be distinguished from the presented data-driven reinforcement learning.

In comparison to prior studies, our work presents a unique perspective of utilizing MARL for single quadrotor control by decoupling yaw control from translational control, thereby improving training efficiency and stability as well as control performance against SARL.
