$$d X _ {t} = b (X _ {t}, U _ {t}) d t + \sigma (X _ {t}) d W _ {t},$$

(3.3) $d Y _ { t } = d B _ { t } .$

This relation allows us to view the partially observed problem as one with independent measurements, with the dependence pushed to the Radon-Nikodym derivative.

Theorem 3.1. Suppose that Assumptions (A1) and (A2) hold . Then,

(i) The total cost

$$\mathcal {J} _ {T} (x, m) = \mathbb {E} _ {x, Q} ^ {m} \left[ \frac {d \mathbb {P}}{d Q} \left(\int_ {0} ^ {T} c (X _ {t}, m _ {t}) d t + c _ {T} (X _ {T})\right) \right], \tag {3.4}$$

as a function of policies is continuous over the space of wide-sense admissible policies UWS.

(ii) There exists an optimal control policy in UWS.   
(iii) For every $\epsilon > 0 _ { ; }$ , there exists an ordinary piece-wise constant control policy in UWS which is ǫ-optimal.

Proof. (i)-(ii) Once we have a measure transformation, continuity and existence follow by the similar argument as in Lemma 2.6, Lemma 2.4 and Theorem 2.1 (since the signal process X· is not fixed in the current setup): For any sequence $m ^ { n }  m$ in $\mathfrak { U } _ { \mathsf { W S } }$ , by the similar argument as in the proof of Theorem 2.1, we have that the solution $X ^ { n }$ of (3.3) associated to $m ^ { n }$ converges (weakly) to the solution X (of (3.3)) associated to m . Also, since g is bounded and continuous, arguing as in the proof of Lemma 2.5, it follows that $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { d P } { d Q } ( \mathbf { \bar { \boldsymbol { X } } } _ { [ 0 , t ] } ^ { n } , Y _ { [ 0 , t ] } ) } \end{array}$ converges to $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { d P } { d Q } ( X _ { [ 0 , t ] } , \bar { Y _ { [ 0 , t ] } } ) } \end{array}$ . Thus, following the steps as in the proof of Lemma 2.6, we obtain the continuity of the value . Also, the set of admissible control measures is weakly closed as the independence of the variables $Y , U$ is preserved under weak convergence (see the proof of [18, Lemma 2.3]). These lead to the compactness-continuity conditions and accordingly an existence result for optimal policies follows.

(iii) As in [18, Section 4, p. 274], we have the set of non-anticipative measures $\mathcal { P } _ { \lambda } ( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { U } )$ with fixed marginal on $C ( [ 0 , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ^ { M } )$ which have quantized support, in both time and control, is dense (see also Theorem 2.7) . Thus, in view of the above continuity result it follows that piece-wise constant control policies which are furthermore non-anticipative are near optimal. ⋄

Accordingly, we can again establish both existence and discrete approximation results. Once again, the above will allow us to approximate a continuous-time process with a (sampled) discrete-time process and the machinery developed for discrete-time optimal control will be applicable.
