# 3 Homogeneous ANNs

The statements of universal approximation theorems [4], [10], [9] vary dependently of the restriction to an activation function $\sigma : \mathbb { R } \mapsto \mathbb { R }$ of ANN. To the best of author’s knowledge, the weakest restriction to σ is given by the following theorem.

Theorem 2 (Universal approximation theorem, [15]) Let $\sigma \in C ( \mathbb { R } , \mathbb { R } )$ be a non-polynomial function and $\Omega \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be a compact set. If $g : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \mapsto \mathbb { \mapsto }$ R is a continuous function then for any $\epsilon > 0$ there exists $N \in \mathbb { N } , \overset { \cdot } { A } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times n } , b \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ and $C \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 1 \times N }$ such that

$$| g (x) - g _ {\epsilon} (x) | \leq \epsilon , \quad \forall x \in \Omega , \tag {10}g _ {\epsilon} (x) = C \sigma (A x + b), \tag {11}$$

where the function $\sigma$ in the above formula is applied in the component-wise manner.

The function $g _ { \epsilon }$ given by (11) is an ANN with one hidden layer (also known as Shallow ANN). The above theorem shows that the considered ANN is the universal approximator of any continuous mapping on a compact. For simplicity, all theoretical results are proven below for scalar-valued functions $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } \mapsto \mathbb { R }$ . The extension to the vector-valued functions $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } \mapsto \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is straightforward.

Let us consider, first, an unknown d-homogeneous mappings having a known homogeneity degree. We introduce the d-homogeneous artificial neural network being a global universal approximator of a continuous d-homogeneous function.
