# Notation.

• $\mathcal { B } _ { r }$ denotes the open ball of radius r in $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ , centered at the origin.   
• By Tr S we denote the trace of a square matrix S.   
• $m _ { [ 0 , t ] } : = \{ m _ { s } : 0 \leq s \leq t \}$ .   
• $\mathbf { X } = ( X ^ { 1 } , X ^ { 2 } , \ldots , X ^ { N } ) , \mathbf { m } = ( m _ { 1 } , m _ { 2 } , \ldots , m _ { N } ) .$   
• For any domain $\mathcal { D } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ , the space $\mathcal { C } ^ { k } ( \mathcal { D } ) \ ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \infty } ( \mathcal { D } ) ) , k \ge 0$ , denotes the class of all real-valued functions on D whose partial derivatives up to and including order k (of any order) exist and are continuous.   
• $\mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { c } } ^ { k } ( \mathcal { D } )$ denotes the subset of $\mathcal { C } ^ { k } ( \mathcal { D } ) , 0 \leq k \leq \infty$ , consisting of functions that have compact support. This denotes the space of test functions.

• $\mathcal { C } _ { b } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ denotes the class of bounded continuous functions on $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ .   
• $\mathcal { C } _ { 0 } ^ { k } ( \mathcal { D } )$ , denotes the subspace of $\mathcal { C } ^ { k } ( \mathcal { D } ) , 0 \leq k < \infty$ , consisting of functions that vanish in $\mathcal { D } ^ { c }$ .

2. Fully Observed Model. We start the discussion with the fully observed model. We note again that such a setup has already been studied extensively (see e.g. [32], [31]). For fully observed models, while for the case without measure transformation we essentially follow the machinery present by Kushner and colleagues, we also consider and present an approach where measure transformation is adopted and a continuity result is presented. This leads to an alternative approach for both existence and approximations. A key continuity lemma, Lemma 2.5 is presented toward this end. Our analysis will set the stage for the more general information structures to be studied later in the paper. Consider a continuous-time process $X _ { t }$ taking values in a Euclidean space $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ , controlled by a control process $U _ { t }$ taking values in a compact metric space U. In the context of a diffusion process, $X _ { t }$ is a solution of the following stochastic differential equation (SDE) defined on a complete probability space (Ω, F, P)

$$d X _ {t} = b (X _ {t}, U _ {t}) d t + \sigma (X _ {t}) d W _ {t} \tag {2.1}$$
