(ii) Applying chattering lemma [1, Theorem 2.3.1] ∗, we deduce that ordinary policies are dense in relaxed ones. In-particular we have that the set of non-anticipative measures $\mathscr { P } _ { \lambda } ( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { U } )$ (with fixed marginal on $C ( [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { U } ) )$ which have quantized support (in both time and control) is dense in UWRC (for more details see [18, Section 4]). Now, considering the joint law of the sate and control, we have the continuity of the expected total cost as a function of control policy (Lemma 2.6). Thus by the continuity and denseness (of the ordinary piece-wise constant control policies), we get the near optimality of the piece-wise constant control policies. ⋄

Later in the paper, the result above will allow us to approximate a continuoustime process with a (sampled) discrete-time process and the machinery developed for discrete-time optimal control will be applicable.

3. Partially Observed Setup. Consider now a partially observed continuoustime process $\{ X _ { t } \}$ on $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ , controlled by a control process $\left\{ U _ { t } \right\}$ taking values in a compact action space U, and with an associated observation process $\{ Y _ { t } \}$ taking values in $\mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ , where $0 \leq t \leq T$ . The evolution of $\{ X _ { t } , Y _ { t } \}$ is given by the stochastic differential equations

$$d X _ {t} = b (X _ {t}, U _ {t}) d t + \sigma (X _ {t}) d W _ {t},$$

(3.1) $d Y _ { t } = g ( X _ { t } ) d t + d B _ { t } ,$

where, $g : \mathbb { R } ^ { d }  \mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ is a continuous and bounded function and $W$ and B are independent standard Wiener processes with values in $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ and $\mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ , respectively (hence, σ is a $d \times d \cdot$ -matrix). The objective is to minimize the following cost function

$$\mathbb {E} _ {x} ^ {U} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} c (X _ {t}, U _ {t}) d t + c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \right], \tag {3.2}$$

where the running cost $c : \mathbb { R } ^ { d } \times \mathbb { U }  [ 0 , \infty )$ and the terminal cost $c _ { T } : \mathbb { R } ^ { d }  [ 0 , \infty )$ are given functions. Throughout this section we are assuming that the running cost c and the terminal cost $c _ { T }$ are bounded and continuous functions.
