$$
\begin{array}{l} \left. \mid \mathbb {E} \left[ Z _ {T} ^ {n} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m ^ {n} (d s, d \zeta) + c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \right] \right] \right. \\ - \mathbb {E} \left[ Z _ {T} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m (d s, d \zeta) + c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \right] \right] \\ \leq \mathbb {E} \left[ \left| Z _ {T} ^ {n} \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m ^ {n} (d s, d \zeta) - Z _ {T} \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m ^ {n} (d s, d \zeta) \right| \right] \\ + \mathbb {E} \left[ \left| Z _ {T} \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m ^ {n} (d s, d \zeta) - Z _ {T} \int_ {0} ^ {T} \int_ {\mathbb {U}} c (X _ {s}, \zeta) m (d s, d \zeta) \right| \right] \\ + \mathbb {E} \left[ \left| Z _ {T} ^ {n} c _ {T} (X _ {T}) - Z _ {T} c _ {T} (X _ {T}) \right| \right]. \\ \end{array}
$$

Since $c , c _ { T }$ are bounded, by Lemma 2.5, we have that the first and third terms of the above inequality go to zero. Furthermore, since $Z _ { T }$ is bounded and $c ( x , \cdot )$ is bounded and continuous, it is easy to see that the second term of the above inequality also goes to zero as $n \to \infty$ . This completes the proof . ⋄

The following theorem proves the existence of an optimal policy in UWRC. Also, it shows that the piece-wise constant policies in UWRC are near optimal .

Theorem 2.7. Suppose that Assumptions (A1) and (A2) hold. Then, we have

(i) There exists an optimal control policy in UWRC.   
(ii) For every $\epsilon > 0 ,$ , there exists an ordinary piece-wise constant control policy in UWRC (thus also non-anticipative) which is ǫ-optimal.

Proof. (i) Existence follows from Lemma 2.6 and Lemma 2.4: The value is continuous in this joint measure on $\{ ( X _ { s } , m _ { s } ) , s \in [ 0 , T ] \}$ and this set of measures is tight, where the control policy space UWRC is compact under weak convergence topology (see e.g. the proof of Lemma 2.4). These lead to the compactness-continuity conditions and accordingly an existence result for optimal policies follows.
