# 5.1 Example 1: Homogeneous pattern recognition

The scaling invariance is desirable feature for a pattern recognition by ANN. There are several approaches to exhibit the required invariance (see, e.g., [3, page 262]). One of them is to build the invariance properties into the structure of a neural network. The present example uses the generalized homogeneity for this purpose.

For simplicity, we assume that we deal with gray-scale images. Following the conventional approach, we associated any image with a function $( z _ { 1 } , z _ { 2 } ) \mapsto \phi ( z )$ of two arguments, which value $\phi ( z ) \in [ 0 , 2 5 5 ]$ ] define a tone of the gray color at the coordinates $z = ( z _ { 1 } , z _ { 2 } ) ^ { \top }$ . The value $\phi ( z ) = 0$ corresponds to the white color, while the value $\phi ( z ) = 2 5 5$ means that the point with the coordinate z has the black color. A pattern depicted in the image is assumed to be centered. The origin $z = ( 0 , 0 )$ of the coordinate frame corresponds to the center of the image. In computer, the coordinates of the points z as well as the possible values of $\phi ( z )$ are represented by integers , $\mathrm { i . e . , ~ } z \in \mathbb { Z } ^ { 2 } , \phi ( z ) \in \{ 0 , 1 , 2 , . . . , 2 5 5 \}$ . We extend the domain of $\phi$ to $\mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ and the range of ϕ to the interval [0, 255], respectively. This extension of the function $\phi$ can always be made in a continuous manner. For the points z out of the image range we assign $\phi ( z ) = 0$ . In this case, the size of image does not impact to the definition of $\phi \in C _ { c } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } , \mathbb { R } )$ .

Traditionally, the values of $\phi ( z )$ are utilized as inputs to ANN. Since the function $\phi$ is not homogeneous even with respect to the standard dilation $z \mapsto$ $e ^ { s } z$ , then the efficiency of a homogeneous ANN is questionable in this case. To homogenize the problem, we introduce the following transformations

$$x _ {i} (\phi) = \int_ {\mathbb {R} ^ {2}} b _ {i} (z) \phi (z) d z, \quad i = 1, 2,..., n \tag {37}$$
