# B. NN–Augmented Hybrid Model

$\mathbf { F } _ { \mathrm { a e r o } }$ and $\mathbf { M } _ { \mathrm { a e r o } }$ may be the dominant terms within the overall dynamics of a tail-sitter UAV, especially during highspeed maneuvers. In addition to wing lift and drag, other effects such as fuselage drag, propeller–wing interactions, and rotor-to-rotor interactions also contribute to $\mathbf { F } _ { \mathrm { a e r o } }$ and $\mathbf { M } _ { \mathrm { a e r o } }$ [18] [19] . The tracking performance of MPC can be substantially improved by considering these aerodynamic effects. However, these effects are either too complicated to be described by mathematical equations or necessitate extensive experiments (such as computational fluid dynamics (CFD) or wind tunnel tests) to identify the coefficients for their mathematical equations. In a previous study [13], we developed a wing lift and drag force model for a tail-sitter UAV based on wind tunnel experiments. This model can be employed in the HITL simulations but not in MPC. In the current study, we used an NN approach to model the aerodynamic effects of a tail-sitter UAV purely from its flight data. The model shows good accuracy yet is lightweight enough for real-time calculation of optimal control problems.

In the hybrid aerodynamic model, the basic dynamics generated by quadrotor propellers and gravity are described by a nonlinear model based on a Newton–Euler formalism. The residual aerodynamic effects and the potential error of the quadrotor model are approximated by an NN. As we focused on the outer loop position control, we modeled only translational dynamics. Therefore, the training target was to minimize the difference between the actual acceleration and the acceleration predicted by the nonlinear model. The network inputs are linear velocity, attitudes, and collective thrust. Position and angular velocity are excluded as inputs, given that they are not directly associated with translational dynamics. The NN model features 6 inputs and 3 outputs, expressed as follows:

$$\hat {\mathbf {a}} _ {\text { res }} = f _ {\mathrm{NN}} (u, v, w, \phi , \theta , T), \tag {3}$$

where $\hat { \mathbf { a } } _ { \mathrm { r e s } } ~ = ~ [ \hat { a } _ { x , \mathrm { r e s } } ~ \hat { a } _ { y , \mathrm { r e s } } ~ \hat { a } _ { z , \mathrm { r e s } } ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ represents the predicted residual accelerations and fNN represents the NN transfer function.
