# 3.2 Switching function, bang-bang and singular extremals

Equation (2.6) can be rewritten more explicitly as

$$\operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) B) + \tilde {u} (t) \operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) (A - B)) = \max _ {u \in [ 0, 1 ]} \left[ \operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) B) + u \operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) (A - B)) \right] \tag {3.4}= \operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) B) + \max _ {u \in [ 0, 1 ]} u \operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) (A - B)), \tag {3.5}$$

for almost every $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ . Hence, we are lead to define $\varphi : [ 0 , + \infty )  \mathbb { R } .$

$$\varphi (t) = \mathrm{tr} (\eta (t) (A - B)). \tag {3.6}$$

We will call $\varphi$ switching function. Notice that $\varphi$ is at least Lipschitz. If $\varphi$ has only isolated zeros, then a control $u ,$ in order to satisfy Pontryagin Maximum Principle, must be of the form

$$
u (t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text { if } \varphi (t) > 0, \\ 0 & \text { if } \varphi (t) <   0, \end{array} \right. \tag {3.7}
$$

that is, the isolated zeros of $\varphi$ are exactly the times when there are a switch in the dynamics.

If $\varphi ( t _ { 0 } ) = 0$ , we will call $t _ { 0 }$ a switching time and the corresponding $\eta ( t _ { 0 } )$ switching point.

$\mathrm { I f } \ \varphi$ has any nonisolated zero, then Pontryagin Maximum Principle does not determine the control directly, but in our case it is still possible to bypass this obstacle and determine the control.

Definition 3.8 (bang-bang control, Singular control). We will call bang-bang a control u and its corresponding extremal ${ \mathrm { i f ~ } } \varphi$ has only isolated zeros.

If instead $\varphi \equiv 0$ , then we will call the associated control u and its extremal singular.

A control u which takes only extremal values, i.e. $u ( t ) \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ for a.e. $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , is called bang-bang. We will first focus on bang-bang extremals and then we will discuss separately the singular case.
