A neural network (NN) can be used to model these residual aerodynamic effects, as NNs are universal function approximators that are capable of modeling highly nonlinear dynamic systems. Therefore, various NN-based methods have been developed for the modeling and control of UAVs [15]–[17]. Given that the neural network serves as the prediction model, the complexity of the model is constrained by the control frequency and the computational capability of the platform. Deep recurrent neural networks (RNNs) exhibit the capability to learn explicit system behaviors, including features like motor delay and airflow states. However, deploying such RNNs in real-time for optimal control calculations poses challenges to the system. Consequently, a crucial consideration in the modeling process involves striking a balance between model accuracy and simplicity to address the trade-off inherent in this context.

In the current study, hybrid MPC (HMPC) was devised for position tracking of a quadrotor tail-sitter UAV in hovering flight. The flight data of the UAV were collected by commanding it to follow trajectories that excited translational and rotational movements in all axes. A feedforward neural network (FFNN) was trained to learn the residual aerodynamic effects and was used as a compensator for the nonlinear quadrotor model. The model was implemented with HMPC to predict the states of the UAV. We compared the performance of HMPC with that of nonlinear MPC (NMPC) using the nonlinear quadrotor model with trajectories not included in the training data. We also introduced wind disturbances to test the robustness of the controller. The main contributions of this study are as follows:

• an FFNN with good accuracy and a simple structure

was used to learn the residual aerodynamic effects of a quadrotor tail-sitter UAV from its flight data;

• by combining the learned dynamics with Newton-Euler model, a position controller was developed within an MPC pipeline and allows for update frequencies greater than 100Hz; and   
• HMPC was demonstrated to be robust and outperformed NMPC by up to 57% in real-world flight experiments.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II presents a review of related studies. Section III introduces the governing equations of quadrotor tail-sitter UAV and describes the development of an NN modeling method. Section IV details the testing of controller performance in real-world experiments Section V concludes.
