# 4.4.3 Limit trajectory as switching time tends to zero

In the previous Subsection we saw that if $\operatorname { t r } ( [ A , B ] ^ { 2 } ) > 0$ , then the upper bound for the principal Lyapunov is obtained as the switching time tends to zero. Now, we want to discuss some more details about the limit trajectory as the switching time goes to zero. This will allow us to evaluate the upper bound without computing directly the limit.

Proposition 4.33. The limit trajectory as the switching time goes to zero is the singular trajectory.

Proof. First, recall that from (4.27)

$$s (t) = \frac {\operatorname{tr} (A B) - \operatorname{tr} (A ^ {2})}{\operatorname{tr} (A B) - \operatorname{tr} (B ^ {2})} t + o (t) \quad \text {as} t \to 0.$$

${ \mathrm { S o } } ,$ our trajectory spends t time with control equal to 1, which corresponds to matrix A, and approximately $\frac { \mathrm { t r } ( \stackrel { \sim } { A } B ) - \mathrm { t r } ( A ^ { \hat { 2 } } ) } { \mathrm { t r } ( A B ) - \mathrm { t r } ( B ^ { 2 } ) } t$ time with control equal to 0, corresponding to matrix B. For simplicity, let us call

$$c = \frac {\operatorname{tr} (A B) - \operatorname{tr} (A ^ {2})}{\operatorname{tr} (A B) - \operatorname{tr} (B ^ {2})},$$

the coefficient appearing in $s ( t )$ .

So, by convex approximation (see Theorem 8.2 in [8]), we know that as the number of switches goes to infinity $( \mathrm { i . e . , } t$ goes to zero), the flow tends uniformly (in the $C ^ { \infty } ( \mathrm { S L } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } ) )$ -topology) to

$$T \mapsto \exp \big (T (v A + (1 - v) B) \big),$$

where

$$v = \frac {1}{1 + c} = \frac {\mathrm{tr} (A B) - \mathrm{tr} (B ^ {2})}{2 \mathrm{tr} (A B) - \mathrm{tr} (A ^ {2}) - \mathrm{tr} (B ^ {2})},$$

which corresponds to the value of the singular control (see Section 5).

So, since the convergence in the previous proof is uniform on compact time intervals and since in the case of periodic controls we can reduce to the finite time case (see 4.15), we obtain the following Corollary.

Corollary 4.34. With the notation used in Subsection $4 { \cdot } 4 { \cdot } 2 ,$ we have

$$\lim _ {\tau \to 0} \ell (\tau , s (\tau)) = \lambda_ {*} = \frac {1}{2} \sqrt {\frac {\operatorname{tr} ([ A , B ] ^ {2})}{2 \operatorname{tr} (A B) - \operatorname{tr} (A ^ {2}) - \operatorname{tr} (B ^ {2})}},$$

where λ∗ is the positive eigenvalue of 5.6 (see Section 5).
