# 4.3 Bang-bang periodic controls

So far, we proved that there are two qualitatively different type of adjoint trajectories: with a finite number of switches or periodic trajectories with an infinite number of switches.

If the adjoint trajectory is periodic, then also the switching function (3.6) is periodic and then the associated control is periodic too. However, not every bang-bang periodic control as in (4.6) satisfy PMP. As we will see, for any $T > 0$ , the control in (4.6) satisfies PMP only for a specific value of the switching time $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ .

In this Section we are going to describe how to find all periodic solution to equation adjoint equation (2.5), and so we will be able to characterize all periodic controls satisfying Pontryagin Maximum Principle.

From (3.1), finding all periodic solution to equation adjoint equation (2.5) amounts to find $X ( T )$ in the form

$$X (T) = e ^ {t A} e ^ {s B},$$

with $t + s = T$ and $0 , t , T$ switching times.

We will proceed as follows: for every t we will find $s = s ( t )$ such that $0 , t , T = t + s ( t )$ are switching points. The following result simplifies this task.

Proposition 4.10. Define the bang-bang control

$$
u (\tau) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text {if} \quad \tau \in [ 0, t ], \\ 0 & \text {if} \quad \tau \in [ t, T ]. \end{array} \right.
$$

Let X be the corresponding solution of (2.2) and η be the solution of (2.5). Suppose that η satisfies the condition of transversality (2.7). If t is a switching point, then also 0 and T are switching points.

Proof. The solution of equation (2.5) is

$$\eta (\tau) = X (\tau) ^ {- 1} \eta_ {0} X (\tau).$$

Since η must satisfy the transversal condition, we know by Proposition 4.7 that η is periodic of period T , so it must be

$$\eta_ {0} = X (T) - \frac {\mathrm{tr} \bigl (X (T) \bigr)}{2} \mathrm{Id}.$$

So, putting together the last two equations with the formula for X, we obtain that

$$
\eta (\tau) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} e ^ {(t - \tau) A} e ^ {s B} e ^ {\tau A} - \frac {\mathrm{tr} (X (T))}{2} \mathrm{Id} & \text {if} \tau \in [ 0, t ] \\ e ^ {(s - \tau + t) B} e ^ {t A} e ^ {\tau - t B} - \frac {\mathrm{tr} (X (T))}{2} \mathrm{Id} & \text {if} \tau \in [ t, t + s ] \end{array} \right.
$$

We are assuming that t to be a switching time, so it satisfy

$$\operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) A) = \operatorname{tr} (\eta (t) B).$$

Using the formula for η that we have just obtained, we get

$$\operatorname{tr} (e ^ {s B} e ^ {t A} A) = \operatorname{tr} (e ^ {s B} e ^ {t A} B). \tag {4.11}$$
