# C. Data Collection and Network Training

We collected UAV flight data using both offboard and manual flight modes. In the offboard mode, the UAV tracked the local position references sent to MAVROS topic setpoint position/local. The reference trajectory contained step commands in all three directions, and three step sizes were designed (1, 1.5, and 2 m). In manual mode, the UAV was operated by an expert pilot using Futaba T16SZ remote control. Three flight modes (position, altitude, and stabilized modes) were chosen to enrich the maneuvering intensity. Each experiment was performed three times to attenuate the influence of random error, resulting in 18 flight logs. The take-off and landing parts were excluded to improve the data quality. The total flight time was 24 min, and the position, orientation, and actuator control inputs were recorded onto the onboard storage card.

As the states of the UAV were recorded by various topics with different sampling rates, the raw data and timestamps were synchronized by interpolation at 100 Hz. All data were filtered using a moving average filter to remove high-frequency noise. The unobserved velocity and acceleration were calculated by differentiating the filtered data rather than the raw data, as differentiation amplifies discrete noise. The resulting dataset contained approximately 150,000 sample points for NN training.

The network uses translational velocities, Euler angles, and thrust as inputs, while the target outputs are residual translational accelerations. The dataset was partitioned, with 70% used for training, 15% for validation, and the remaining 15% for testing. Each subset of data encapsulated the entire flight envelope present in the full dataset.
