We will see later that if $r _ { c _ { 0 } }$ is tangent, then the corresponding trajectory η is constant and in particular it is a singular trajectory. So, we will consider first the non-tangent cases and we postpone the tangent case to the Section of singular extremals.

If $r _ { c _ { 0 } }$ does not intersect the hyperboloid, then the trajectory η starting from η0 does not meet the switching curve S. This means that η is confined either in the region $H ^ { + }$ or $H ^ { - }$ , so the control u is identically equal to 1 or 0 for all times.

If instead there are two distinct intersection between $r _ { c _ { 0 } }$ and H, then there are three possibilities (see Figure 3):

1. there is exactly one switch;   
3. the adjoint trajectory is periodic with infinite switches.

2. there are two switches and after the second switch the adjoint trajectory does not meet anymore the switching curve;

Since we are interested in computing the Lyapunov exponents of the system, the case with no switches and the cases with finite number of switches are the same, because the resulting trajectories are asymptotically equal.

So, to resume, we have obtained the following result about the structure of bang-bang extremals.

Theorem 4.5. Any admissible control corresponding to a bang-bang extremal must be in one of the following two forms:

• constant controls, that is either $u ( \tau ) \equiv 1 \ o r \ u ( \tau ) \equiv 0 \ f o r \ a l l \ \tau \in [ 0 , + \infty ) ;$ ;   
• bang-bang periodic controls, that is controls in the form

$$
u (\tau) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text {   if   } \tau \in [ 0, t), \\ 0 & \text {   if   } \tau \in [ t, T), \end{array} \right. \tag {4.6}
$$

for some $T > t > 0$ and then extended by periodicity on the whole interval $[ 0 , + \infty )$

Another important observation is the following.

Proposition 4.7. A couple $( X , \eta )$ solution of (2.2) and (2.5) respectively satisfies transversal condition (2.7) if and only if η is periodic of period T .

Proof. If (2.7) is satisfied, then

$$X (T) ^ {- 1} \eta (0) X (T) = \eta (T) = X (T) - \frac {\operatorname{tr} (X (T))}{2} \mathrm{Id},$$

and simply multiplying both sides by $X ( T )$ on the left and by $X ( T ) ^ { - 1 }$ on the left one obtains that also

$$\eta (0) = X (T) - \frac {\mathrm{tr} (X (T))}{2} \mathrm{Id} = \eta (T),$$

that is, η is periodic of period $T .$

Viceversa, if $\eta ( 0 ) = \eta ( T )$ , then, from $\eta ( T ) = X ( T ) ^ { - 1 } \eta ( 0 ) X ( T )$ , it follows that

$$X (T) \eta (0) = \eta (0) X (T),$$
