# 4.4 Principal Lyapunov exponent for periodic controls

Now, we are now going to compute the upper bound for Principal Lyapunov exponent of periodic controls. As we saw previously, in order to find the extremals of our problem we have to study the functional $\Phi : [ 0 , + \infty ) \times [ 0 , + \infty )  \mathbb { R }$

$$\Phi (t, s) = \mathrm{tr} (e ^ {t A} e ^ {s B}).$$

Since equations (2.2) and (2.5) are invariant after a change of basis, if A and B are not nilpotent (see Remark 4.22 for the nilpotent case), without loss of generality we can assume

$$
A = \left( \begin{array}{c c} \lambda & 0 \\ 0 & - \lambda \end{array} \right), \quad B = P \left( \begin{array}{c c} \mu & 0 \\ 0 & - \mu \end{array} \right) P ^ {- 1}, \quad P = \left( \begin{array}{c c} a & b \\ c & d \end{array} \right),
$$

with $\lambda , \mu \in \mathbb { R } \cup i \mathbb { R }$ and $P \in \mathrm { S L } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { C } )$ . Up to exchange the role of A and B, we can assume $\operatorname { t r } ( A ^ { 2 } ) \geq$ $\operatorname { t r } ( B ^ { 2 } )$ .

Proposition 4.16. With this notations, the functional in (4.4) is

$$\Phi (t, s) = 2 \cosh (\lambda t) \cosh (\mu s) + \frac {\operatorname{tr} (A B)}{\lambda \mu} \sinh (\lambda t) \sinh (\mu s). \tag {4.17}$$

This formula is a simple consequence of the following Lemma.

Lemma 4.18. If $M \in { \mathfrak { s l } } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ , with positive eigenvalue $\alpha > 0$ , then

$$e ^ {t M} = \cosh (\alpha t) \mathrm{Id} + \frac {\sinh (\alpha t)}{\alpha} M. \tag {4.19}$$

Proof. From the characteristic polynomial of M, we know that $M ^ { 2 } = \alpha ^ { 2 } \mathrm { { I d } }$ , and so $M ^ { 2 k } = \alpha ^ { 2 k } \mathrm { I d }$ , $M ^ { 2 k + 1 } = \alpha ^ { 2 k } M$ . Using these facts in the series expansion of $e ^ { t M }$ one obtains the formula above.

Remark 4.20. If $M \in { \mathfrak { s l } } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ is nilpotent, i.e. $M ^ { 2 } = 0$ , then

$$e ^ {t M} = \operatorname{Id} + t M. \tag {4.21}$$

${ \mathrm { S o } } ,$ if either A or B is nilpotent, one can just replace formula (4.17) with a formula for Φ obtained using (4.21).

Remark 4.22. From (4.17) we see immediately that $\Phi ( T , 0 )$ coincide with the case of a trajectory without switch and

$$\frac {\partial \Phi}{\partial s} (t, 0) = \frac {\mathrm{tr} (A B)}{\lambda} \sinh (\lambda t).$$

On the other hand, if we define $\Psi ( t , s ) = 2 \cosh ( \lambda ( t + s ) )$ , which represent the cost of a trajectory without switch on the same interval of time, we obtain

$$\frac {\partial \Psi}{\partial s} (t, 0) = 2 \lambda \sinh (\lambda t).$$

Thus, if $\frac { \operatorname { t r } ( A B ) } { \lambda } > 2 \lambda$ , which means

$$\operatorname{tr} (A B) > \operatorname{tr} (A ^ {2}),$$

then the trace of a trajectory with a switch grows faster, at least for small times, than the trajectory without switch.
