# II. RELATED WORKS

Versatile tail-sitter UAV configurations have been designed and their dynamic models have been established via various approaches. Based on simplified low-speed aerodynamic principles, Knoebel et al. [18] modeled a tail-sitter UAV in hovering flight by considering its propellers and control surfaces separately. Stone [19] used a full azimuthal baseelement solution to predict the aerodynamic forces for the propellers of a tail-sitter UAV and combined the predictions with a panel method model. Sun et al. [20] introduced a hardware-in-the-loop (HITL) simulation platform for a dualrotor tail-sitter UAV, relying on an aerodynamic model derived from wind tunnel experiments covering the full flight envelope for this UAV. Lyu et al. [21] performed a full attitude windtunnel test on a full-scale UAV to accurately capture the degradation of motor thrust and torque in the presence of forward speed.

An MPC scheme can be established by synthesizing the determined dynamics into a prediction model. Li et al. [13] developed linear MPC for a tail-sitter UAV in hovering flight. Although the tail-sitter aerodynamics and actuator were modeled in detail, the MPC afforded a linearized quadrotor dynamics model. Following this work, Zhou et al. [14] devised a successive linearization method for a tail-sitter UAV MPC scheme, with the prediction model linearized around the UAV’s current attitude to attenuate prediction errors. These approaches have been validated in relatively low-speed scenarios (approximately 0.5 m/s), in which quadrotor dynamics have a nominal effect on a system. However, these linear models fail to predict the dynamics for higher-speed scenarios, which can lead to large tracking errors. This underscores the need for accurate MPC for tail-sitter UAVs, especially for higher-speed scenarios.
