# Observer-Based Periodic Event-Triggered and Self-Triggered Boundary Control of a Class of Parabolic PDEs

Bhathiya Rathnayake, Student Member, IEEE and Mamadou Diagne, Member, IEEE

Abstract—This paper introduces the first observer-based periodic event-triggered control (PETC) and self-triggered control (STC) for boundary control of a class of parabolic PDEs using PDE backstepping control. We introduce techniques to convert a certain class of continuous-time event-triggered control into PETC and STC, eliminating the need for continuous evaluation of the triggering function. For the PETC, the triggering function requires only periodic evaluations to detect events, while the STC proactively computes the time of the next event right at the current event time using the system model and the continuously available measurements. For both strategies, the control input is updated exclusively at events and is maintained using a zeroorder hold between events. We demonstrate that the closed-loop system is Zeno-free. We offer criteria for selecting an appropriate sampling period for the PETC and for determining the time until the next event under the STC. We prove the system’s global exponential convergence to zero in the spatial $L ^ { 2 }$ norm for both anti-collocated and collocated sensing and actuation under the PETC. For the STC, local exponential convergence to zero in the spatial $L ^ { 2 }$ norm for collocated sensing and actuation is proven. Simulations are provided to illustrate the theoretical claims.

Index Terms—Backstepping control, event-triggered control (ETC), periodic ETC, self-triggered control, parabolic PDEs.
