The PETC results from a careful redesign of the continuoustime triggering function used in the CETC [14], [15] to allow for periodic evaluation only. CETC approaches endowed with MDTs, such as those described in [4], [5], [9], [13]– [15], [19], might seem operable in a PETC configuration by permitting only periodic evaluations of the CETC triggering function, with a period that is less than or equal to the MDT. Indeed, following a control update triggered by an event, it is not necessary to check the CETC triggering function until a period equivalent to the MDT has elapsed, because during this time, the function continues to satisfy the required condition. However, once this period has passed, the triggering function could violate the required condition at any moment, indicating that continuous evaluation of the triggering function is absolutely necessary after a period equivalent to the MDT following an event to ensure that the condition is continuously met. This implies that the simplistic approach of periodically checking the CETC triggering function at intervals less than or equal to the MDT does not suffice to guarantee the continuous satisfaction of the required condition. Thus, novel triggering functions designed for periodic evaluation are necessary.

We derive a novel periodic event triggering function requiring only periodic evaluations by finding an upper bound of the underlying continuous-time triggering function between two consecutive periodic evaluations. Subsequently, an explicit upper-bound of the allowable sampling period for periodic evaluation of the triggering function is obtained. Since the triggering function is evaluated periodically, and the control input is updated only when the function satisfies a certain condition upon evaluation, Zeno behavior is inherently absent. Moreover, it is rigorously proven that the closed-loop system well-posedness and convergence under the CETC are preserved under the PETC. Specifically, the closed-loop signals under both CETC and PETC globally exponentially converges to zero in the spatial $L ^ { 2 }$ norm at the same rate.
