# A. Periodic Event-triggered Control (PETC)

In this subsection, we propose a PETC approach for the system described by equations $( 1 ) ‐ ( 7 )$ subject to Assumption 1. This approach is applicable under both anti-collocated $( \theta _ { 1 } = 1 , \theta _ { 2 } = 0 )$ and collocated $( \theta _ { 1 } = 0 , \theta _ { 2 } = 1 )$ sensing and actuation configurations. Our design draws from the CETC scheme in (11), (14)-(17). To implement this, we redesign the triggering function $\Gamma ^ { c } ( t )$ , as specified in (16), into a new triggering function $\Gamma ^ { p } ( t )$ which facilitates periodic evaluations. Furthermore, we determine a maximum allowable sampling period $h > 0$ for the periodic event-trigger. The proposed periodic event-triggering mechanism determines the set of event-times $\{ t _ { j } ^ { p } \} _ { j \in \mathbb { N } }$ via the following rule:

$$t _ {j + 1} ^ {p} = \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R} _ {+} | t > t _ {j} ^ {p}, \Gamma^ {p} (t) > 0, t = n h, \right. \tag {28}h > 0, n \in \mathbb {N} \},$$

with $t _ { 0 } ^ { p } = 0$ . Here, h is the sampling period selected as

$$0 < h \leq \tau , \tag {29}$$

where τ is given by (24) and $\Gamma ^ { p } ( t )$ is given by

$$\Gamma^ {p} (t) = (a + \gamma \rho) e ^ {a h} d ^ {2} (t) - \gamma \rho d ^ {2} (t) - \gamma a m (t). \tag {30}$$

Here, d(t) is given by (14) for $t \in [ t _ { i } ^ { p } , t _ { i + 1 } ^ { p } ) , j \in \mathbb { N } .$ , m(t) satisfies (17) for $t \in ( t _ { i } ^ { p } , t _ { i + 1 } ^ { p } ) , j \in \mathbb { N } .$ , and a is given by (25).

Note that, under the continuous-time event-trigger (15)-(17), the triggering function $\Gamma ^ { c } ( t )$ needs to be checked continuously to detect events. In contrast, with the periodic event-trigger (28)-(30), the triggering function $\Gamma ^ { p } ( t )$ requires only periodic evaluations for event detection.
