The state of HMPC is defined by ${ \bf x } = \left[ x \ y \ z \ u \ v \ w \ \phi \ \theta \ \right] ^ { \mathrm { T } } ,$ , where $\phi$ and θ denote the roll and pitch angles in the body frame $\Gamma _ { \mathrm { B } }$ , respectively. The control input is defined by $\mathbf { u } = [ T \phi _ { \mathrm { c m d } } \theta _ { \mathrm { c m d } } ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ , where $T$ is the collective thrust force generated by the actuators, and $\phi _ { \mathrm { c m d } }$ and $\theta _ { \mathrm { c m d } }$ are roll and pitch commands, respectively, which are sent to the inner loop controller. The hybrid prediction model is formulated by

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} = u \\ \dot {y} = v \\ \dot {z} = w \\ \dot {u} = \cos \phi \sin \theta \frac {T}{m} + \hat {a} _ {x, \text { res}} \\ \dot {v} = - \sin \phi \frac {T}{m} + \hat {a} _ {y, \text { res }} \\ \dot {w} = - g + \cos \phi \cos \theta \frac {T}{m} + \hat {a} _ {z, \text { res }} \\ \dot {\phi} = \frac {\phi_ {\mathrm{cmd}} - \phi}{\tau_ {\phi}} \\ \dot {\theta} = \frac {\theta_ {\mathrm{cmd}} - \theta}{\tau_ {\theta}} \end{array} , \right. \tag {6}
$$

where $g$ is the gravitational acceleration. The translational dynamics consist of nonlinear quadrotor dynamics and an NN model. A first-order model is used to approximate the inner loop dynamics, where $\tau _ { \phi }$ and $\tau _ { \theta }$ are time constants of roll and pitch control, respectively. The values of drag coefficients and controller time constants are identified from experimental data. The yaw command angle is set to zero throughout the experiment, such that the yawing movement is not considered in the dynamics model.

The MPC optimizer addresses the quadratic programming

problem, formulated as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \min \int_ {t = 0} ^ {t _ {N}} | | h (\mathbf {x} (t), \mathbf {u} (t)) - \mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{ref}} | | _ {\mathbf {Q}} ^ {2} d t \\ + \left\| h (\mathbf {x} (t _ {N})) - \mathbf {y} _ {N, \text { ref }} \right\| _ {\mathbf {Q} _ {N}} ^ {2} d t \\ \end{array}
s. t. \quad \dot {\mathbf {x}} = f (\mathbf {x} (t), \mathbf {u} (t)) \tag {7}\mathbf {u} (t) \in \mathcal {U}\mathbf {x} (t) \in \mathcal {X}\mathbf {x} (0) = \mathbf {x} (t _ {0}),$$
