# IV. NUMERICAL SIMULATIONS

We consider an open loop unstable reaction-diffusion PDE with $\varepsilon = 0 . 0 0 1 , \lambda = 0 . 0 1 , q = 5 . 1 , \theta _ { 1 } = 0 , \theta _ { 2 } = 1$ and the initial conditions $u [ 0 ] = 5 x ^ { 2 } ( x - 1 ) ^ { 2 }$ and $\hat { u } [ 0 ] = x ^ { 2 } ( x - 1 ) ^ { 2 }$ . For numerical simulations, both the plant and the observer are discretized with a uniform step size of $\Delta x = 0 . 0 0 5$ for the space variable. The discretization with respect to time is done using the implicit Euler scheme with step size $\Delta t = 0 . 0 0 1 s$ . The parameters for the CETC and PETC are chosen as follows: $m ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 4 } , \gamma = 1 , \eta = 1$ and $\sigma = 0 . 9$ . We compute using (19)-(21) that $\alpha _ { 1 } = 0 . 0 2 1 ; \alpha _ { 2 } = 0 . 0 1 3 1 ; \alpha _ { 3 } = 0 . 7 9 7 1$ . Therefore, from (18), we obtain $\beta _ { 1 } = 0 . 2 0 9 5 ; \beta _ { 2 } = 0 . 1 3 0 9 ; \beta _ { 3 } =$ 7.9706. Let us choose $\kappa _ { 1 } = 2 5$ and $B = 7 . 7 3 0 4 \times 1 0 ^ { 4 } ,$ , and then, from (22), we obtain $\rho = 9 6 6 . 3 .$ The parameters for the STC are chosen as follows: $m ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 4 } , \overset { \cdot } { \gamma } = 1 0 ^ { 1 2 } , \overset { \cdot } { \eta } =$ $1 0 ^ { - 6 } , \sigma = 0 . 9 , \Psi _ { 1 } = 0 . 1 9 9 2 , \Psi _ { 2 } = 0 . 6 9 0 1$ , and $\sigma ^ { * } = \varepsilon \pi ^ { 2 } / 4$ . Therefore, from (18), we obtain $\beta _ { 1 } = 2 . 0 9 5 \times 1 0 ^ { - 1 3 } ; \beta _ { 2 } =$ $1 . 3 1 \times 1 0 ^ { - 1 3 } ; \beta _ { 3 } = 7 . 9 7 0 6 \times 1 0 ^ { - 1 2 }$ . Let us choose $\kappa _ { 1 } = 2 5$ and $B = 7 . 7 3 0 4 \times 1 0 ^ { - 8 }$ , and then, from (22), we obtain $\rho ~ = ~ 9 . 6 6 3 0 \times 1 0 ^ { - 1 0 }$ . For all the strategies, the $\mathbf { M D T } \ \tau$ calculated using (24) is 0.009s. For the PETC, we choose the sampling period for evaluating the triggering function as $h = 0 . 0 0 9 s$ .

Fig. 1 shows the response of the closed-loop system under CETC, PETC, and STC. Fig. 2 shows the corresponding control inputs. We can observe that the spatial $L ^ { 2 }$ norm of the closed-loop signals under CETC, PETC, and STC converge to zero at roughly similar rates, despite PETC and STC not requiring continuous evaluation of a triggering function, as opposed to CETC. In Figs. 3 and 4, we can observe that both CETC and PETC trigger events at similar rates, whereas STC triggers more frequent events than CETC and PETC initially. However, as the closed-loop system approaches the equilibrium, the frequency of events under STC significantly becomes lower than those under CETC and PETC.
