NNs are capable of precisely modeling aerodynamic effects with excellent computational efficiency, and many recent studies have employed NNs to learn quadrotor dynamics models from data. Bansal et al. [17] modeled quadrotor dynamics using an FFNN known as a rectified linear unit, which they employed in a linear–quadratic regulator controller. Torrente et al. [22] modeled aerodynamic effects with Gaussian processes and incorporated these with MPC to achieve efficient and precise real-time position control. In real-world experiments, they achieved flight speeds of up to 14 $\mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s }$ and accelerations beyond $4 \mathrm { g } .$ Bauersfeld et al. [23] modeled quadrotor aerodynamics with blade-element theory and learned residual dynamics with NNs. The resulting model captures aerodynamic thrust, torques, and parasitic effects at speeds up to $1 8 ~ \mathrm { m / s }$ and showed strong generalization capabilities beyond the training set. As a general quadrotor UAV has a relatively small aerodynamic area, nonlinear aerodynamic effects only become dominant at high speeds (usually $> 5 \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s } )$ . However, for a tail-sitter UAV, such effects are non-negligible even at low speeds.

Inspired by [17] and [23], we developed a method that combines a nonlinear quadrotor model based on a Newton– Euler formalism with an NN-based method to learn residual aerodynamic effects. This method greatly simplifies the process of modeling of a tail-sitter UAV, without the need for wind tunnel tests. The resulting HMPC inherits the generalization capability of the Newton–Euler model and the functionapproximation feature of an NN.
