So, we can apply Pontryagin Maximum Principle (PMP) to our problem. For a general reference, see Theorem 12.3 in [8]. You can find in Appendix A (see Theorem A.5) the precise statement that we use here.

We define the Pontryagin left-invariant Hamiltonian function:

$$H (\eta , u) = \mathrm{tr} \bigl (\eta (u A + (1 - u) B) \bigr) \quad \eta \in \mathfrak {s l} _ {2} (\mathbb {R}), u \in [ 0, 1 ]. \tag {2.4}$$

Here we identify tangent and cotangent space of $\operatorname { S L } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ through Killing form of ${ \mathfrak { s l } } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ , which is nondegenerate since ${ \mathfrak { s l } } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ is simple (see Appendix A). Recall also that Killing form K on ${ \mathfrak { s l } } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ can be computed as

$$K (M _ {1}, M _ {2}) = 4 \mathrm{tr} (M _ {1} M _ {2}), \quad M _ {1}, M _ {2} \in \mathfrak {s l} _ {2} (\mathbb {R}).$$

From Pontryagin Maximum Principle and the theory of left-invariant Hamiltonian systems on Lie Groups (see Appendix A) we obtain that if ˜u is a local maximum for $\Phi _ { T }$ , then there exists a Lipschitz function $\eta : [ 0 , T ]  \mathfrak { s l } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ satisfying

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\eta} (t) = [ \eta (t), \tilde {u} (t) A + (1 - \tilde {u} (t)) B ], \\ \eta (0) = \eta_ {0}. \end{array} \right. \tag {2.5}
$$

for a.e. $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ (see Proposition A.10 and Equation A.12). We will call this ODE adjoint system and its solution η adjoint trajectory. Moreover, the two following conditions must hold:

$$H (\eta (t), \tilde {u} (t)) = \max _ {u \in [ 0, 1 ]} H (\eta (t), u), \quad \text { for a.e. } t \in [ 0, T ], \tag {2.6}\eta (T; \tilde {u}) = X (T; \tilde {u}) - \frac {\operatorname{tr} (X (T ; \tilde {u}))}{2} \mathrm{Id}. \tag {2.7}$$

The latter condition is known as transversal condition, see Lemma A.13.

We will call Pontryagin extremal a couple $( X ( \cdot , u ) , \eta ( \cdot ; u ) )$ satisfying all necessary conditions prescribed by PMP.
