To be precise, the previous equality should be a “lower or equal” a priori, because the optimal strategy to maximize λ up to time T can be change when T goes to infinity. We prove however that the limit is realized by a fixed control $u ( t )$ , which is explicitly computed. For those familiar with the terminology of Control Theory, the optimal strategy will be one of the following three possibilities: the constant singular control, corresponding to case 1. in the Main Theorem, the constant control equal to 1, corresponding to case 2., a bang-bang periodic control, corresponding to case 3. We will define these concepts later.

Instead of finding $\operatorname* { s u p } _ { u } \lambda ( X ( T ; u ) )$ , one can find $\operatorname* { s u p } _ { u } f \bigl ( \lambda ( X ( T ; u ) ) \bigr )$ , for a suitable f monotone in λ. It turns out that a convenient choice of f is the trace $\mathrm { t r } ( X ( T ; u ) ) \colon$ : besides being monotone in λ, it is a linear function of X and it is invariant after a change of basis.

Thus, we can restate our original problem into the following Optimal Control problem:

Problem. Fix $A , B \in \mathfrak { s l } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ and $T \geq 0$ . Let $\mathcal { U } = \{ u : [ 0 , T ] \to [ 0 , 1 ] \ |$ u measurable} and for each $u \in \mathcal { U }$ denote with $X ( \cdot ; u )$ the solution of the following Cauchy problem on $\operatorname { S L _ { 2 } } ( \mathbb { R } )$ :

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {X} (t) = X (t) (u (t) A + (1 - u (t)) B), \\ X (0) = \operatorname{Id} \in \mathrm{SL} _ {2} (\mathbb {R}), \end{array} \right. \quad t \in [ 0, T ]. \tag {2.2}
$$

Define the functional $\Phi _ { T } : \mathcal { U } \to \mathbb { R } , \Phi _ { T } ( u ) = \mathrm { t r } X ( T ; u )$ . We want to find $\tilde { u } \in \mathcal { U }$ which maximizes $\Phi _ { T } .$ :

$$\operatorname{tr} X (T; \tilde {u}) = \max _ {u \in \mathcal {U}} \operatorname{tr} X (T; u). \tag {2.3}$$

If we are able to solve this problem for each fixed T , then from the estimate of $\mathrm { t r } X ( T ; u )$ we can deduce an estimate for $\| X ( T ; u ) \|$ which is uniform with respect to $u \in \mathcal { U }$ and depends only on T . Then, the desired value of the principal Lyapunov exponent follows.

Notice that if $[ A , B ]$ is a linear combination of A and B, then the Lie algebra generated by $A , B$ is two-dimensional, hence is solvable. In this case we already know from [1] the value of $\ell ( A , B )$ .

Existence of maximum in (2.3) is guaranteed by Filippov Theorem (see, for instance, Theorem 10.1 in [8]).
