Accurate trajectory tracking plays a pivotal role in enhancing the operational safety and efficiency of UAVs across diverse environmental conditions. Many research works have developed and implemented model predictive control (MPC) to enhance the position tracking accuracy on UAVs [10]–[12]. MPC considers a system dynamic model based on the receding horizon principle. Consequently, it leverages the model to anticipate the future dynamics of a control process and calculate optimal control inputs while adhering to state constraints. The first value of the optimal control input sequence derived by the optimizer will be applied on the system. This iterative online optimization process is executed at each time-step, allowing for continuous refinement of control inputs based on real-time information and system dynamics. MPC offers an additional benefit in comparison to traditional reactive controllers like the proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller. Unlike the latter, which corrects states solely based on tracking error and consequently leads to tracking delays, MPC employs proactive control actions on the system. This proactive approach enables MPC to respond to future set-points and disturbances within the prediction horizon, enhancing its adaptability and responsiveness.

Model-based control methods such as MPC can be substantially enhanced by the use of an accurate system model. However, it is almost impossible to derive a perfect mathematical model that comprehensively describes the complete system dynamics of UAVs in real-world settings. MPC algorithms that are currently applied to tail-sitter UAVs typically employ a basic quadrotor model linearized around hovering conditions and neglect residual aerodynamic effects such as wing lift and fuselage drag [13], [14]. As the velocity of a UAV increases, this neglect of residual aerodynamics has an increasing effect on the UAV and can lead to significant tracking errors.
