# 5 Singular extremals

In this Section we are going to deal with the case of singular extremals (see Definition 3.8). Recall the definition of the (left-invariant) Hamiltonian function

$$H (\eta , u) = \operatorname{tr} \bigl (\eta (u A + (1 - u) B) \bigr),$$

and the switching function

$$\varphi (t) = \mathrm{tr} \big (\eta (t) (A - B) \big). \tag {5.1}$$

Recall also that the singular extremals correspond to the case of $\varphi ( t ) = 0 \mathrm { f o r } t \in [ \tau _ { 1 } , \tau _ { 2 } ]$ , and $\tau _ { 1 } , \tau _ { 2 } > 0$ In this case, since $\varphi$ is Lipschitz, we can derive it:

$$0 = \dot {\varphi} (t) = \operatorname{tr} \bigl (\dot {\eta} (t) (A - B) \bigr) = \operatorname{tr} \Bigl (\bigl [ \eta (t), u A + (1 - u) B \bigr ] (A - B) \Bigr) = \operatorname{tr} \bigl (\eta (t) [ A, B ] \bigr),$$

where in the last equality we used the identity $\mathrm { t r } ( [ M _ { 1 } , M _ { 2 } ] M _ { 3 } ) = \mathrm { t r } ( M _ { 1 } [ M _ { 2 } , M _ { 3 } ] )$ . Notice that $\dot { \varphi }$ does not depend on u and in particular it is again a Lipschitz function. So, if $\eta _ { * }$ is a point of a singular trajectory, it must satisfy the two following conditions:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \operatorname{tr} \big (\eta_ {*} (A - B) \big) = 0, \\ \operatorname{tr} \big (\eta_ {*} [ A, B ] \big) = 0 \end{array} . \right. \tag {5.2}
$$

These two conditions are linear in $\eta _ { * } , \mathrm { s o }$ , since A, B and $[ A , B ]$ are linearly independent, they determine a straight line in ${ \mathfrak { s l } } _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ .

If we write $\eta _ { * } = \alpha A + \beta B + \gamma [ A , B ]$ , then the second equation implies $\gamma = 0$ . Hence, from (4.9), we see that if we take $c _ { * } = \operatorname { t r } ( \eta _ { * } A )$ , the line $r _ { c _ { * } }$ is tangent to the hyperboloid H (see discussion in Subsection

4.2).

There are two intersection between the line (5.2) and the hyperboloid H described in Section 2 if and only if

$$\big (2 \mathrm{tr} (A B) - \mathrm{tr} (A ^ {2}) - \mathrm{tr} (B ^ {2}) \big) \mathrm{tr} ([ A, B ] ^ {2}) > 0. \tag {5.3}$$

If there are no intersection, then there are no singular extremals. $\mathrm { S o } .$ , from now on we will assume that this inequality hold.

We can compute explicitly these two intersection: let us call η∗ one of the two intersection point. Then, from (4.2) and $\gamma = 0$ we obtain

$$\eta_ {*} = \alpha_ {*} A + \alpha_ {*} \frac {\mathrm{tr} (A B) - \mathrm{tr} (A ^ {2})}{\mathrm{tr} (A B) - \mathrm{tr} (B ^ {2})} B,$$
