Note that there are certain protection protocols in existing BMSs. For example, over-current protection typically uses a physical mechanism (e.g., an electronic switch/fuse) to disconnect the battery when the charging/discharging current exceeds a pre-defined threshold. However, the attacks can still be implemented while the current is well within such predefined current limits. That is, injecting a safe current for a longer time can also lead to overcharging or discharging without triggering the over-current protection mechanism. Other than over-current, there is also over-voltage and overtemperature protection – which are typically done by checking if the measured terminal voltage and temperature have crossed pre-defined limits. However, such limit checking is typically performed within the BMS software-based computation. Such voltage and temperature overprotection can be overridden either by manipulating the measurement reading entering the computation or by changing the limits within the computation. Other than using the over-voltage or under-voltage condition checks, there can be overcharging or overdischarging protection which utilize the state-of-charge information. Note that such state-of-charge is also computed within the BMS where the attacker can potentially change the current information entering the BMS or the computation itself in order to bypass the overcharge/overdischarge protection. Along similar lines, the work in [8] showed that by changing some computation/model (e.g., the volt-VAR curve), battery set-point can be manipulated – leading to potentially destabilizing effects.

A schematic of the potential attack by the cyber attacker in the system of CPBS is illustrated in Fig. 2. It can be seen that the original intended current input to the battery cell is depicted by $I _ { n o m }$ , which however is altered into an actual input I due to the additional attack current $I _ { a } ,$ , which is introduced by the cyberattacker. This results in an output voltage of $V ,$ , however again due to the addition of voltage attack $V _ { a }$ on the outputs end, the voltage as seen by the battery management systems (BMS) is going to be $V _ { m e s }$ .
