# I. INTRODUCTION

Nonlinear systems pose challenges in control theory, because their complex and nonlinear behaviours make the design of stabilizing controllers a non-trivial task [1], [2]. Traditional modelbased nonlinear control requires an accurate model using the first-principle-based approaches. To alleviate the modeling efforts, data-driven approaches to perform system identification and control design are on the rise [3].

The Koopman operator theory [4] has emerged as a data-driven approach to establish models and design controller for nonlinear systems using data. The Koopman operator theory involves lifting the original nonlinear dynamics to an infinite-dimensional observable space to identify its linear representation [5], [6], [7]. After lifting, well-established linear control theories can be used to design linear controller to achieve desired performance. Compared to nonlinear control algorithms that involve solving complex nonlinear optimization problems, linear control algorithms are more efficient for real-time implementation. As a result, Koopman model-based control has gained significant attentions in various engineering applications [8], [9]. This approach is particularly useful in scenarios where the nonlinear system is too complex to derive an analytical model, as the Koopman operator framework provides a powerful means of data-driven linear representation. With the availability of a theoretical framework for analyzing system dynamics spectra and the dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) numerical algorithm for learning system dynamics from data [10], [11], this method avoids complex modeling procedures and facilitates efficient data-driven control design for highly nonlinear systems.

Tianyi He is with the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Utah State University, Logan, Utah 84322-4130, USA. Email: tianyi.he@usu.edu. He is the corresponding author.

Anuj Pal was with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, 48824 USA. E-mail: palanuj@msu.edu.
