As mentioned before, both of the adversarial objectives can essentially be formulated as optimization problems.
For example, the first objective can be expressed into two parts: the first part corresponds to following a reference state trajectory (that is, an SoC trajectory over time) as closely as possible throughout the attack action time whereas the second part corresponds to achieving a desired final state at the end action time as closely as possible (that is, the final $S o C$ desired by the adversary).
Following these desired state reference trajectories as closely as possible can be incorporated as minimization of the corresponding tracking errors – that is, minimization of the terms $\begin{array} { r } { \int _ { 0 } ^ { t _ { f } } \left\| \breve { ( } X ( t ) - \breve { X } _ { r e f } ( t ) ) \right\| ^ { 2 } d t } \end{array}$ and $\left| X ( t _ { f } ) - X _ { r e f } ( t _ { f } ) \right| ^ { 2 }$ with $X ( t )$ and $X _ { r e f }$ being the actual and desired states, and the attack occurs in $[ 0 , t _ { f } ]$ time-period.
The second objective can also be expressed as the minimization as of the attack current energy throughout the attack action time – that is, minimization of the term $\begin{array} { r } { \int _ { 0 } ^ { t _ { f } } \left| U _ { a } ( t ) \right| ^ { 2 } d t } \end{array}$ .
Furthermore, these two objectives sometimes can be in conflict with each other.
For example, a higher value of $U _ { a }$ will induce fast overcharge/over-discharge but at the cost of higher attack energy requirement.
On the other hand, a lower value of $U _ { a }$ will eventually induce the attack but at a prolonged time.
This trade-off can be incorporated as the the weighted sum of the aforementioned minimization terms, where the weights can be chosen to control the trade-off arising due to the potential conflict.
In summary, we see that the adversarial objectives can be framed into a sum of weighted terms which should be minimized.
In other words, an optimization approach is deemed suitable to formulate the input attack design problem.
Specifically, given the nature of the real-time nature of attack injection, an optimal control approach that considers these two potentially conflicting components along with the dynamical nature of battery systems will capture the essence of the attack generation mechanism.
