(i) It is easy-to-implement, since the requirement of a prescribed timer as designed in [21], [23] is removed, and the solution of the designed parameters relies only on a simple data-driven LMI, not on an LMI as well as some inequalities as in [21], nor on a couple of complex LMIs as in [22].   
(ii) It is performance-guaranteed, in the sense that exponential ISS with respect to disturbances is ensured, in contrast to the practical exponential ISS as achieved in [23].   
(iii) It is Zeno-free, as it guarantees the existence of a strictly positive MIET for all time, even in the presence of disturbances.

As emphasized in [1], [2], the sampled information from controlled systems is typically subject to quantization effects before being transmitted to communication networks. However, this practical issue is often ignored in the existing literature on data-driven event-triggered control. This paper further considers that the sampled state information is quantized by uniform quantizers or logarithmic quantizers. With respect to various quantization scenarios, a quantized version of the developed data-driven dynamic event-triggered control scheme is presented, which is another contribution of this paper.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Preliminaries are introduced in Section II. Main results are developed in Section III. Some comparisons are provided in Section IV. The extensions to quantized scenarios are presented in Section V. Numerical simulations are performed in Section VI. Finally, Section VII concludes this paper, and appendices contain the proofs.
