# IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

In this section, we evaluate the proposed threat model using experimental data. First, we discuss the identification of the battery model given in Section III-A from the experimental data. Subsequently, we generate the attack signals described in Section III-C and evaluate their efficacy. Experiments were conducted at $2 5 ~ ^ { o } C$ temperature in a controlled environment using ESPEC thermal chamber. The input current profile and the output voltage are given and measured by the ARBIN Battery Cyclers. The experimental schedules and the data logging rates were defined in MITS Pro. MITS Pro is the software which is used to control the battery input current commands, measure temperatures using thermocouples and also to measure the voltage across the battery cell. In other words, in the context of the CPBS this acts as the BMS controller interface level which is responsible for all the tasks like controlling input commands, measuring ouputs, and monitoring the system through temperature feedback. The inputs to the battery cell are given to the MITS Pro software in a file called schedule which has a series of actions to be taken at different times. In the case of an attack, these original intended actions are altered to emulate the attack injection. An illustration of the experimental setup is depicted in Fig. 4.

As mentioned above, in our current experimental setup, the input current control commands to the battery cells are given using MITS Pro software which controls the Arbin Battery Tester. In order to test our testcase of FDIA man-in-middle attack scenario [23] where it is assumed that the attacker gets access to the controllers and tampers with the inputs commands, the fault is injected to the Arbin Battery Tester input profiles. In short, this is basically a result of tampering with the current input commands directly on the Arbin tester. As of now, these profiles are generated offline and injected into the system as this is a preliminary study. However, it is intended to expand this study in the future to an online generation as well as addition of the attacks using DSpace controllers which will emulate the attacker and bypass the actual user intended inputs that are pre-saved at Arbin’s end.
