In addition to what was done in [4], which imposed the same single-link actuator power limits of 500 W for both directions of actuator power flow, in this work $\overline { { P } } \leq \underline { { P } }$ to allow for higher power flows when generating as compared to motoring.

The bound on the disturbance $( \hat { d } _ { k } )$ , which is based on the road profile, is initially chosen as the maximum value of the vertical road velocity. However, when implementing this value in different driving manoeuvres, it is hard to achieve feasibility in the optimization problem. Therefore, the value of the disturbance bound is relaxed in this work and chosen as 0.15 m/s for all the driving manoeuvres to guarantee a feasible solution. Note that for random roads A, B and C, the vertical road velocities are within the defined range for 100%, 95.6% and 85.3% of the time, respectively. Furthermore, in the case studies presented in this section, it is found that this setting is sufficient to derive well-performing controllers that satisfy all the constraints.

Initial feasible triples $Y ^ { * } ( S ^ { * } , G ^ { * } , \hat { K } ^ { * } )$ and $\tilde { Y } ^ { * } ( \tilde { S } ^ { * } , \tilde { G } ^ { * } , \hat { K } ^ { * } )$ are computed offline utilizing the proposed method in [34], where the initial state $x _ { 0 }$ is assumed to be within a bounded set $\mathcal { X }$ which includes all the possible values that the state can take, based on the geometry and dynamics of the system.

Remark 5. Alternatively, the initial parameters $S ^ { * } , G ^ { * } , \tilde { S } ^ { * } , \tilde { G } ^ { * }$ and ${ \hat { K } } ^ { * }$ can be initially set to zero at $t = 0$ and then at every sampling time their values can be updated by the slack variables (S,G,S˜,G˜) and control value $K ^ { * }$ computed by the online RMPC problem presented in (24). Note that this strategy does not guarantee initial feasibility of the RMPC problem, however, if the problem is solvable at $t = 0 ,$ , the upcoming optimal control problems presented in (24) have a solution.
