Remark 1: (How to obtain data-driven matrix $\mathcal { X } _ { 1 }$ in practice?) It is difficult to obtain $\mathcal { X } _ { 1 }$ in practice since the computation of ${ \dot { x } } ( t )$ is error-prone. In the absence of disturbances, an Euler discretization-based approach is proposed in [24], where the ith component of $\mathcal { X } _ { 1 } , \dot { x } ( i \varsigma ) , i = 0 , 1 , \ldots , \tau - 1$ , is approximated by $\begin{array} { r } { \hat { \dot { x } } ( i \varsigma ) = \frac { x ( ( i + { \bar { 1 } } ) \varsigma ) - x \left( i \varsigma \right) } { c } } \end{array}$ with the approximation error satisfying $\begin{array} { r } { \| \widehat { \dot { x } } ( i \varsigma ) - \dot { x } ( i \varsigma ) \| ^ { \cdot } \leq \frac { \bar { a } \varsigma } { 2 } [ \bar { a } \| x ( i \varsigma ) \| + ( 1 + \frac { \bar { a } \varsigma } { 3 } ) \bar { b } \| u ( i \varsigma ) \| ] . } \end{array}$ , where a¯ and ¯b represent the known upper bounds of $\| A \|$ and $\| B \|$ , respectively. When disturbances are considered, the authors in [23] present an integral-based approach, where a new data set that does not involve the computation of ${ \dot { x } } ( t )$ is constructed by integrating both sides of ${ \dot { x } } ( t ) = A x ( t ) +$ $B u ( t ) + d ( t )$ and performing re-sampling.

Remark 2: (How to implement the developed control scheme?) To clearly show the implementation process of the developed data-driven dynamic event-triggered control scheme, a block diagram is presented in Fig. 1 and an algorithm is provided in Algorithm 1. In can be observed from Fig. 1 that event generator, data processor, and zeroorder holder are some essential devices. More specifically, event generator monitors the dynamic ETM and generates events on-line. Data processor collects data information and calculates the data-driven feedback gain matrix $K ,$ , which are all performed off-line. Zero-order holder keeps $u ( t ) = K x ( t _ { k } )$ unchanged for $t \in [ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } )$ until the next event is triggered.

Remark 3: (How to increase the inter-event intervals?) From a qualitative perspective, the event-triggering function $f ( t )$ is a decay function, and a larger $\bar { f }$ will increase the value at which $f ( t )$ begins to decay and a smaller $\beta$ will decrease the decay rate of $f ( t )$ . From a quantitative perspective, the explicit expression of the lower bound of inter-event intervals is given in (44), indicating that a larger $\bar { f }$ or a smaller $\beta$ will result in a larger value. Therefore, the inter-event intervals can be increased by choosing a larger $\bar { f }$ or a smaller $\beta .$
