# I. INTRODUCTION

The suspension system refers to the entire support system composed of springs and shock absorbers between the vehicle body and wheels. The function of the suspension system is to isolate passengers from vibration and shocks induced by road disturbances to improve ride comfort while providing good road holding [1]. The passive suspension includes a conventional spring-damper unit, which passively adapts to the road profile and dissipates energy from road perturbations. Active suspension systems have become widely available and popular since the 1980s. With improved ride comfort as compared to passive suspension, concise structure, reduced energy costs and high reliability, they are continuously pursued in the process of vehicle and transportation electrification.

Recently, a novel mechatronic suspension solution, the Series Active Variable Geometry Suspension (SAVGS), has been conceptualised, designed, optimised, and experimentally validated through both quarter-car prototyping and full-car road testing [2]–[8]. Fig. 1 shows the SAVGS application to

Z. Feng (zilin.feng17@imperial.ac.uk), S. A. Evangelou (s.evangelou@imperial.ac.uk) and I. M. Jaimoukha(i.jaimouka@imperial.ac.uk) are with the Dept. of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Imperial College London, UK.   
A. Georgiou (georg611@umn.edu) is with the Dept. of Mechanical Engineering at University of Minnesota, USA.   
M. Yu (m.yu14@imperial.ac.uk) and D. Dini (d.dini@imperial.ac.uk) are with the Dept. of Mechanical Engineering at Imperial College London, UK.

a quarter-car with a double-wishbone suspension, where the active single-link component (‘F-G’) is introduced between the chassis (‘G’) and the upper-end eye of the spring damper unit (’F’), in series with the conventional spring-damper. The single-link (SL) is driven by a rotary permanent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM) actuator, which generates the torque $( T _ { S L } )$ acting from the chassis onto the lower wishbone (through the spring-damper) to improve the performance of a double-wishbone suspension. As compared with other active suspensions, the SAVGS features [2]: i) potential for improvement of ride comfort and road holding, ii) negligible unsprung mass and small sprung mass increment, iii) low power actuation requirements, and iv) fail-safe characteristics.
