The adversarial process behind attack generation has two components. First, the attack should hamper battery operation by either diminishing its power delivering capability by over-discharging or by creating unsafe situation by overcharging. This can be done if the battery charge follows a prescribed charge trajectory that explicitly over-charges or over-discharges to a desired point. Minimizing the difference between the prescribed trajectory and actual battery charge at all times will ensure satisfaction of this first component. As for the second component, the attack should use the battery energy in an intelligent manner so that hardware current limits are not hit while ensuring that the attack does not require a prolonged injection time. Minimizing the required attack energy will satisfy the second component. Now, these two components need to be put into same mathematical abstraction in order to find attacks that satisfy both. Optimal control theory provides an unique theoretical abstraction where (i) multiple adversarial objectives can be unified (for example, as done in [27]), and (ii) efficient techniques exist to find the optimal solution [28], [29]. Hence, optimal control framework can effectively model and analyze adversarial attack generation policies for battery systems. Subsequently, such optimal control based attack model will help build resilience by: (i) creating attack detection strategies leveraging the optimal threat model, (ii) securing the data transmission among the vulnerable parts of the battery, and (iii) providing insights into developing hardware-based solutions to combat cyber threats in batteries.
