# B. Extended Dynamic Mode Decomposition (EDMD)

Consider the following discrete-time nonlinear dynamics,

$$x _ {t + 1} = f (x _ {t}, u _ {t}), \tag {3}y _ {t} = g (x _ {t}),$$

where $x _ { t }$ is the state, $y _ { t }$ is the output, $u _ { t }$ is control inputs, and ?? , ?? are the nonlinear functions. Using Koopman operator theory, the finite-dimensional Koopman model of the above nonlinear dynamics can be written as:

$$z _ {t + 1} = A _ {p} z _ {t} + B _ {p} u _ {t}, \tag {4}y _ {t} = C _ {p} z _ {t},$$

where, $z _ { t } = \psi ( x _ { t } )$ is the lifted state in the observable space. The goal here is to estimate the unknown system transition matrices $A _ { p } , B _ { p } .$ , and $C _ { p }$ using EDMD. Let us assume that the data snapshots of control trajectory ??, state trajectory ?? and output trajectory ?? are available from the original nonlinear system (4) with ?? points. The entire data snapshot can then be written in matrix form as

$$\mathbf {X} ^ {1} = \left[ x _ {0}, x _ {1}, \dots , x _ {N - 1} \right], \quad \mathbf {X} ^ {2} = \left[ x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \dots , x _ {N} \right] \tag {5}\mathbf {U} = [ u _ {1}, u _ {2}, \dots , u _ {N} ], \quad \mathbf {Y} = [ y _ {1}, y _ {2}, \dots , y _ {N} ]$$

where, where state data-matrix $\mathbf { X } ^ { 2 }$ is shifted from the matrix $\mathbf { X } ^ { 1 }$ by one-time forward step. The EDMD uses a set of observables to lift the nonlinear dynamics from their original state space to a high-dimensional observable space. Using the basis function vector $\psi ( \cdot )$ , the following high-dimensional matrix of lifted states can be obtained.

$$\mathbf {X} _ {\text { lift }} = [ \psi (x _ {0}), \dots , \psi (x _ {N}) ] \tag {6}$$

and the observables of $x _ { t }$ is written as

$$\psi (x _ {t}) = \left[ \psi_ {1} (x _ {t}), \dots , \psi_ {M} (x _ {t}) \right] ^ {T} \tag {7}$$

Here, ?? is the dimension of the basis function vector, which is equivalent to the dimension of the lifted system in the observable space.

Splitting the state matrix from (6), two data matrices $\mathbf { X } _ { \mathrm { l i f t } } ^ { 1 }$ and $\mathbf { X } _ { \mathrm { l i f t } } ^ { 2 }$ can be obtained as follows:

$$\mathbf {X} _ {\text {lift}} ^ {1} = \left[ \psi \left(x _ {0}\right), \dots , \psi \left(x _ {N - 1}\right) \right], \quad \mathbf {X} _ {\text {lift}} ^ {2} = \left[ \psi \left(x _ {1}\right), \dots , \psi \left(x _ {N}\right) \right]. \tag {8}$$
