Given that the transformation of battery systems into cyberphysical systems is a relatively new and emerging area, the literature on cyber-physical security in such energy storage systems is limited – especially on understanding the attack generation and injections. The work in Kharlamova et al. [23] mentions an attack against a particular battery service where an attack is aimed at preventing the control unit from having a realistic battery SoC. In this work, different attack vectors are injected on all the measurements thereby corrupting the measurements. In [24], false data injection attacks on input current have been explored. Similarly, false data injection attacks on voltage sensors are discussed in [25]. Similar mentions of these types of attacks were made in [4] and [15].

For the current work, the battery system is assumed to be just limited to the current as the only input and voltage measurement as the only output. In such a type of system, the only way for a cyber attacker to attack this CPBS is by introducing attacks in the form of an additional current. The choice of this additional current injection will cause the system to operate in an undesirable unsafe operating region that can be hazardous. In order to introduce the attack in a stealthy fashion, the obvious effects that will be seen in the output voltage measurements must be mitigated so that the outputs will be as close as to the originally anticipated values. This way, the attack injected will be stealthy and will be undetected. The imperfections in the output measurements will be misunderstood to the measurement noises or any other modeling uncertainties by the user. In short, the main objective of the current work is to propose one of the only few potential ways an attacker can introduce a cyber attack into the CPBS and yet stay stealthy. Leveraging this, one can design potential ways to detect and mitigate such cyber attacks that can be hazardous.
