Similarly, the results for Test Case 2 are shown in Fig. 7 where the adversarial attack generation are explored for another over-discharging condition, but with a different dynamic current profile (derived from US06 driving schedule). The “User-intended current” profile is shown in Fig. 7(b). Here the battery is over-discharged to 20% SoC using the generated input “Current attack” as shown in Fig. 7(a). This ultimately leads to the applied current profile, “Current under adversarial input attack”, as shown in Fig. 7(b). The effect of this is, the battery gets over-discharged, as shown by the “voltage under only input attack” plot in Fig. 7(c), and “SoC under adversarial attack” plot in Fig. 7(d). Hence, both of these plots indicate that the battery is being over-discharged. Next, to achieve the objective of stealthiness, output “Voltage attack” is generated, as shown in Fig. 7(a). To generate “voltage under both input and output attack”, the output voltage attack mentioned earlier is added to the “voltage under only input attack”. Fig. 7(c) shows that the “voltage under both input and output attack” and “Nominal voltage under no attack” are very similar to each other, thereby making the attack scenario almost the same as the no attack scenario.

In Fig. 8, the results for Test Case 3 are shown. In Fig. 8(b), the “User-intended current” profile aims to charge the battery from 20% to 50% SoC. However, the adversary’s intent is to overcharge to 80% SoC. The generated input “Current attack” is shown in Fig. 8(a), which serves the purpose of overcharging, ultimately leading to the applied “Current under adversarial input attack” shown in Fig. 8(b). As a result, the battery is being overcharged, as shown by the “voltage under only input attack” plot in Fig. 8(c) and “SoC under adversarial attack” in Fig. 8(d). Both of these plots indicate that the battery is being overcharged. Next, to realize stealthiness, output “Voltage attack” is generated, as shown in Fig. 8(a). This output voltage attack is added to the “voltage under only input attack” to generate “voltage under both input and output attack”. As can be seen from Fig. 8(c), the “voltage under both input and output attack” and “Nominal voltage under no attack” are very close to each other, thereby making the attack scenario almost indistinguishable from the no attack scenario.
