# 1. Introduction

Over the past three decades, the topic of observer design for dynamical systems has received a significant amount of interest from researchers of control system engineering. This is because the state variables are essential in the system analysis and feedback control design. Although many of these variables can be measured through sensors, some remain inaccessible due to the unavailability of sensors. Thus, the observers play a pivotal role in modern-day applications that assist in capturing real-time information of systems, for example, the state-of-charge estimation of LI-ion battery model [1], autonomous vehicle tracking [2], and so on.

In the literature, numerous approaches have been proposed for linear observer design, and all have shown high reliability. However, in contrast to the linear observer, the development of nonlinear observers is an arduous problem. There is no systematic technique to construct these types of observers. Hence, an abundant amount of research has been carried out in this area. The several popular methods of nonlinear observers are as follows:

a) Transformation-based observers [3];   
b) High-gain observers [4];   
c) Sliding-mode observers [5];   
d) Linear Matrix Inequality (LMI)-based observers [6].

All these methodologies are developed for continuous-time nonlinear systems, while the few methodologies related to discrete-time systems are showcased in [7, 8, 9] and [6]. Among these techniques, LMI-based techniques are extensively studied by researchers and some of them are provided in [10, 8, 11] and [9]. Recently, the authors of [12] had established a new matrix-multiplier-based LMI approach for continuous-time nonlinear observer design. The LMI condition presented in [12] is less conservative than the one shown in [2]. It inspires the authors to derive a new LMI condition for the development of nonlinear observers for discrete-time systems through the utilization of new matrix multipliers, reformulated Lipschitz property and Young inequalities. Further, the effectiveness of the developed LMI condition is shown through a numerical example. The performance of the observer is validated through the application of State-of-charge (SoC) estimation of Li-ion battery.

The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Some preliminaries related to the nonlinear observer design and the notations are illustrated in Section 2. Further, Section 3 encompasses the contextualization of the problem statement. Segment 4 contains the formulation of two new LMI conditions. Further, some comments and remarks related to the proposed methodology are outlined in Section 5. The effectiveness of the new LMI conditions and the observer performance is showcased in Section 6. Finally, Section 7 entails a few concluding remarks on the established approach.
