2) Quantify the bound of the model mismatch from Koopman identification on the bounded noisy data.   
3) Incorporate a dual-loop control scheme to the data-driven finite-dimensional Koopman model to compensate for the plant-model mismatch; Give out the implementation of the data-driven Koopman identification and the dual-loop control to the nonlinear system; The dual-loop scheme is extended from our previous work [21] in LTI systems to nonlinear systems.   
4) Demonstrate the improvement in robustness by the dual-loop control applied on the Koopman model using an example of Van Der Pol oscillator. In high measurement noise levels, the nominal optimal controller designed from the Koopman model fails to regulate the nonlinear system, whereas the dual-loop scheme improves the robustness against the model mismatch.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II starts the discussion with the preliminaries of the Koopman operator theory for data-driven modeling. Section III investigate the extended dynamic model decomposition (EDMD) to data with noise and evaluate the upper bounds of model mismatch. Section IV presents the dual-loop robust control architecture with theoretical guarantees for system stability and robustness. Section V presents an illustrative example of the Van Der Pol oscillator to demonstrate the advantages of the proposed control scheme, followed by conclusions in Section VI. The following mathematical notations are used. $| | \cdot | | _ { F }$ denotes the Frobenius norm, and $| | T _ { z w } | | _ { \infty }$ denotes the $H _ { \infty }$ norm of the transfer function $T _ { z w } \in R H _ { \infty } . \mathrm { ~ ‰ ~ }$ denotes the pseudo-inverse.
