However, when applying DMD in data-driven modeling and using finite-dimensional representations for nonlinear dynamics, the mismatch between the approximate and actual models is inevitable. The mismatch comes from the availability and quality of data sets, sensor noises in measurements, and selections of basis functions. The plant-model mismatch inherently degrades the model-based control performance. In the worst case, if the Koopman model fails to include potentially excited modes, the control and observation spillovers will destabilize the closed-loop system [12], [13]. The control inputs can excite the modes that are not in the space spanned by the chosen basis functions (control spillover). The measurements can contain modes that are not in the basis function space, and the control action will be corrupted (observation spillover). Therefore, the guaranteed robustness against model uncertainty and mismatch is a critical issue in the Koopman model-based control approach.

It has been recognized that the noisy data can lead to biased models obtained by the DMD approach, because the DMD modes and magnitudes are perturbed by the noisy data. The bias caused by sensor noise was analyzed and quantified how bias depend on the size and level of the data in [14], [15]. De-biasing modifications to the DMD were further proposed to remove this bias under the assumptions of small noises. If noise property is known, then a direct correction can be applied. Otherwise, results from DMD forwards and backwards can be combined to remove biases. Another alternative is to apply total least-squares minimization algorithm to minimize the model bias. It was pointed out in [16] that the noisy data through observable functions will not remain identically distributed. Therefore, an element-wise weighted total least squares (EWTLS) was proposed to find consistent approximation. However, the proposed noise-resilient method leads to a non-convex optimization. Ref. [17] investigated the stochastic Koopman operator for random dynamical systems where either the dynamics or observables are affected by noise, and a robust DMD algorithm was proposed to address the noise-induced bias.
