# 5.1. Case of the nonlinear systems with linear outputs

This segment focuses on the observer design for the nonlinear systems having linear outputs in the presence of disturbances/noise. The system (10) with linear output is

reformulated as:

$$x _ {k + 1} = A x _ {k} + G f (x _ {k}) + B u _ {k} + E \omega_ {k}, \tag {60}y _ {k} = C x _ {k} + D \omega_ {k},$$

where all variables and parameters remain consistent with those specified in (10). The nonlinear function f(·) is presumed to be globally Lipschitz and holds the detailed form (11a). Analogous to the previous Section 3, the states of the system (60) are estimated by deploying the ensuing observer:

$$\hat {x} _ {k + 1} = A \hat {x} _ {k} + G f (\hat {x} _ {k}) + B u _ {k} + L (y _ {k} - C \hat {x} _ {k}), \tag {61}$$

where all the parameters and variables are the same as the one illustrated in (12). If one follows the steps (13)- (19) showcased in Section 3, it is easy to obtain the subsequent error dynamics of the observer (61):

$$e _ {k + 1} = (A - L C) e _ {k} + \sum_ {i, j = 1} ^ {m, \bar {n}} f _ {i j} G \mathcal {H} _ {i j} F _ {i} e _ {k} + (E - L D) \omega_ {k}. \tag {62}$$

The following corollaries present two new LMI conditions which guarantee the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ stability of the closed-loop system (62).

Corollary 1. If there exist matrices $P > 0 \in { \bf S } ^ { n } , R \in { \bf S } ^ { p \times n }$ , along with Z in the form of (33) and a positive scalar $\mu ,$ such that, the ensuing optimization problem is solvable:

minimize µ subject to

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c c} \Sigma & \mathbb {U} ^ {\top} & (\mathbb {Z} \mathbb {H} \Phi_ {m}) ^ {\top} \\ \star & - \mathbb {Z} & \mathbb {O} \\ \star & \star & - \mathbb {Z} \end{array} \right] \leq 0, \tag {63}
$$

where all variables and parameters are the same as the one described in the LMI (43). Then, the estimation error dynamic (62) satisfied $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ criterion (21).

Corollary 2. Let us introduce the matrices $P > 0 \in { \bf S } ^ { n } , R \in { \bf S } ^ { p \times n }$ , the matrix Z defined by (33), a positive scalar µ and the following optimization problem:

minimize µ subject to

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} \Sigma & (\mathbb {U} + \mathbb {Z} \mathbb {H} \Phi) ^ {\top} \\ \star & - 2 \mathbb {Z} \\ & 1 5 \end{array} \right] <   0, \forall \Phi \in \mathcal {F} _ {H _ {m}}, \tag {64}
$$

where all the terms and variables remain consistent with the one specified in the LMI (53). If the aforementioned optimization problem is solvable, then the estimation error dynamic (62) is $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ asymptotically stable.

For the proof of both corollaries, one can follow the proof of Theorem 1 and Theorem 2.
