There is a major challenge in developing a systematic framework for adversarial threat modeling in cyber-physical battery systems. Modeling adversarial behavior can be pursued in a manner similar to behavioral modeling framework. However, such behavioral models are often based on data-driven approaches requiring extensive amount of training and testing data – which are not available for the battery application. However, it should also be noted that the a major subset of adversarial objectives aims to create certain physical disruption. That is, the adversary will potentially use the knowledge of battery’s physical behavior to create such disruption. For example, the objective of overcharging or undercharging a battery would require the understanding of how applied battery current affects battery state-of-charge. These physically disruptive attacks can be analyzed by focusing on the battery systems physical behavior which gives us insights about potentially harmful input current sequences. Furthermore, stealthiness requires that the battery output signals should behave nominally even under harmful input current attacks. This also needs an understanding of battery physical behavior such that the effect of harmful current is masked at the battery output signals. In other words, the physical dynamics of the battery systems can be exploited to gain a better understanding of adversarial behavior. While such understanding can be formulated in a theoretical framework, there are limitations in such approach which arise from the potential inaccuracies of battery models. Such limitations can be addressed by using experimental data from commercial battery cells along with the mathematical models – which can potentially suppress the battery model uncertainties to certain extent. Following these arguments, in the proposed framework, we leverage the physical battery dynamics along with experimental battery data to develop an understanding of potential adversarial behaviors.
