The above-mentioned studies are robust modeling techniques against noisy data. This paper provides a robust control perspective to address the noise-induced model bias. First, we will examine the bound of model bias under bounded noises, and present a pitfall case that the LQG controller based on biased model will fail to stabilize the nonlinear system. After that, we present a dual-loop control framework to bring in the robustness. The dual-loop robust control resembles an internal model control and consists of two loops for nominal control and robust control, respectively [18], [19], [20], [21]. The nominal controller is designed based on the Koopman model, and it can be any stabilizing controller in the standard observer-based state-feedback form. The robust loop is placed with an $H _ { \infty }$ controller. Thanks to the performance separation principle proved in [21], [19], the nominal performance is independent of the robust controller matrices, and the robust performance is independent of the state-feedback and observer gains of the nominal controller [21]. In other words, the nominal control loop and robust control loop can be separately designed and coordinated between high performance and robustness against the model mismatch. The dual-loop control scheme can attenuate unmatched uncertainty/disturbance in $H _ { \infty }$ manner to achieve a guaranteed robustness level. Different from the disturbance-observer-based control (DOBC) [22], the proposed dual-loop control does not estimate the model mismatch but relies on the $H _ { \infty }$ control to improve the robustness.

The main contributions of the current work are summarized below:

1) Demonstrate the plant-model mismatch in the Koopman-identified model learned from the polluted data set and a pitfall of a Koopman-model-based optimal controller (LQG control) addressing nonlinear dynamics.
