Fig. 1: The dual-loop control strategy with the nominal control (green) and robust loop (blue) designed on the data-driven Koopman model.

As shown in Fig. 1, the dual-loop control scheme has two control loops for nominal performance and robustness, respectively. The first loop consists of a Luenberger observer and state-feedback control with gains $( K , L )$ based on the Koopman model. The second loop is designed with the operator ?? in the $H _ { \infty }$ approach to bring in the guaranteed robust stability and performance. The residual signal $f _ { t } = \hat { y } _ { t } - y _ { t }$ is the deviation of estimated outputs from the Koopman observer and the actual outputs, indicating the mismatch between the Koopman model and the actual system. When there is no model mismatch, the residual signal $f _ { t } = 0$ goes through ?? and produces $u _ { f } = Q f _ { t } = 0$ . The overall controller still remains the nominal controller. If there is a model mismatch, the state observer renders biased estimations and outputs. The robust control loop ?? is then triggered, and the extra control signal $u _ { f , t } = Q f _ { t }$ compensates for the nominal control input $u _ { k , t }$ . Moreover, $u _ { f , t }$ is generated by ??, filtering the residual signal and adapting to the ’size’ of model mismatch to bring robustness to the overall system.

The design of the dual-loop control scheme for the system (40) is formulated as follows: Let $( K , L )$ be any given nominal controller stabilizing Koopman (nominal) model identified from noisy data, and take the form

$$\hat {x} _ {t + 1} = A \hat {x} _ {t} + B _ {2} u _ {t} + L (\hat {y} _ {t} - y _ {t}) \tag {43}\hat {y} _ {t} = C _ {2} \hat {x} _ {t}, u _ {k, t} = K \hat {x} _ {t}.$$

Assuming ?? to be the dynamic form:

$$x _ {t + 1} ^ {Q} = A _ {Q} x _ {t} ^ {Q} + B _ {Q} f _ {t} \tag {44}u _ {f, t} = C _ {Q} x _ {t} ^ {Q} + D _ {Q} f _ {t},$$

The control design problem is to find controller matrices $A _ { Q } , B _ { Q } , C _ { Q }$ and $D _ { Q }$ to achieve robust stability under sector-bounded model mismatch $f _ { s } , v _ { s }$ and achieve robust performance $\| T _ { z w } \| _ { \infty } < \gamma$ , where $T _ { z w }$ is the closed-loop system from ?? to ??.
