# 3. HardTanh deep neural network (HTNN) for exact representation of MPC laws

In this section, we design the HardTanh deep neural network (HTNN) arhitecture and show that any given continuous minmax affine function can be exactly represented by a HTNN. We also provide the complexity of such network. Let us start by summarizing some fundamental concepts of deep neural networks. We define a feed-forward neural network as a sequence of layers of neurons which determines a function $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ :

$$
f (x; \hat {\Theta}) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} \eta^ {[ \zeta ]} \circ \gamma^ {[ \zeta ]} \circ \dots \circ \eta^ {[ 1 ]} \circ \gamma^ {[ 1 ]}, \zeta \geq 2 \\ \eta^ {[ 1 ]} \circ \gamma^ {[ 1 ]}, \zeta = 1, \end{array} \right. \tag {11}
$$

where the input of the network is $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ , the output of the network is $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ and $\zeta$ is the number of layers and for simplicity. If $\zeta = 1$ , then f is describing a shallow neural network, else for $\zeta \geq 2 , f$ is describing a deep neural network. Each layer consists of a nonlinear activation function $\eta ^ { \left[ k \right] } \left( \mathrm { e . g . } \right.$ , ReLU, sigmoid, HardTanh, etc) [6] and an affine function:

$$\gamma^ {[ k ]} (\hat {x} ^ {[ k - 1 ]}) = W ^ {[ k ]} \hat {x} ^ {[ k - 1 ]} + b ^ {[ k ]},$$

where $\hat { x } ^ { [ k - 1 ] } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { w }$ is the output of the previous layer, w is the number of neurons in each hidden layer (also referred to as the number of hidden neurons) of some arbitrary size and ${ \hat { x } } ^ { [ 0 ] } = x .$ . The parameters $\hat { \Theta } = \{ \hat { \Theta } ^ { [ 1 ] } , \dots , \hat { \Theta } ^ { [ \zeta ] } \}$ embody the weights and biases of the $\gamma$ function on each layer:

$$\hat {\Theta} ^ {[ k ]} = \{W ^ {[ k ]}, b ^ {[ k ]} \} \quad \forall k = \overline {{1 : \zeta}},$$

where the weights are

$$
W ^ {[ k ]} \in \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \mathbb {R} ^ {w \times n _ {x}}, & \text { if } k = 1 \\ \mathbb {R} ^ {w \times w}, & \text { if } k = \overline {{2 : \zeta - 1}} \\ \mathbb {R} ^ {n _ {u} \times w}, & \text { if } k = \zeta \end{array} \right.
$$

and the biases are

$$
b ^ {[ k ]} \in \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \mathbb {R} ^ {w}, & \text { if } k = \overline {{1 : \zeta - 1}} \\ \mathbb {R} ^ {n _ {u}}, & \text { if } k = \zeta . \end{array} \right.
$$
