It is noted that the vast majority of the existing eventtriggered control schemes are built upon the model-driven control, in the sense that explicit knowledge of system dynamics is indispensable for event-based controller and/or ETM design and implementation. Obviously, model-driven control is not applicable when an accurate enough system identification is not available. In addition, carrying out system identification is expensive and time-consuming, especially for largescale systems with complicated dynamics. Recently, datadriven control has attracted considerable attention; see some representative results [11]–[16] and references therein. This control approach allows control schemes to be developed by state/output and input data without identifying system models. Recent results on data-driven control subject to event-triggered sampling include [17]–[19] dedicated to discrete-time systems. For continuous-time systems with linear dynamics in the presence of disturbances, data-driven event-triggered control schemes were developed in [20]–[23]. Specifically, a static ETM was proposed in [20], where only a state-based term is designed in the event-triggering function. Dynamic ETMs with a prescribed timer or a dynamic internal variable were proposed in [21] and [22], respectively. Note that the setting of the timer in [21] depends not only on an LMI, but also on some other inequalities, and the gain matrix designed in the ETM in [22] is determined by a couple of intricate LMIs. A dynamic ETM consisting of a prescribed timer and a dynamic internal variable was developed in [23], which guarantees the existence of a strictly positive MIET at the price of a practical stability property.

In this paper, a data-driven dynamic event-triggered control scheme is proposed for unknown continuous-time linear systems subject to disturbances. The major contribution of this paper is to propose a novel ETM with the following distinguished features:
