# Chapter 2: Spiking Neural Networks

Spiking neural network models are considered to more closely mimic biological neural networks since they are inspired by information processing in biology. SNNs are used to model the brain’s enormous parallel processing and communication using sparse and asynchronous binary signals. Spiking neural networks were originally studied as models of biological information processing [31], where neurons exchange information via spikes. SNNs process information using two factors: timing of spikes and identity of synapses (excitatory vs inhibitory neurons). SNNs incorporate time-based information transmission between neurons and also exhibit “bursting” and “synchrony”, that are characteristics of biological neural networks. Neurons within the network often communicate with each other through action potential spikes, which typically exhibit a consistent time course. SNNs so closely mimic spiking neural networks in functionality, that they are compatible with sparsity and temporal coding. SNNs also have low power consumption and event driven information processing, thus used in this work to model all the advantages a live neural network offers.

Biological neurons process information by the propagation of electrochemical signals via action potentials. The constant transfer of ions, inside and out of a neuron, causes charges to transfer along the length of a neuron and to other neurons via synapses. Three primary ions that are responsible for electrically charging the neurons are Na+, K+, Ca+ and Cl-. Synapses are responsible for transfer of information in networks. They can be divided into excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Excitatory synapses depolarize postsynaptic neurons and boost the firing of action potentials. Inhibitory synapses hyperpolarize postsynaptic neurons and inhibit the development of action potentials.

There are several neuron models used to model precise biological behavior such as integrate and fire, Izhikevich and Hodgkin- Huxley models.
