where ${ \mathcal { I } } _ { d }$ denotes the identity function. Observe that the first components in the parameters and activation functions, are chosen in a manner to propagate uk. Recall that $\eta ( \cdot )$ denotes the standard activation function HardTanh. Note thwork we need to learn the entries of the matrices $Q _ { 1 } ^ { [ k ] }$ this and $Q _ { ? } ^ { [ k ] }$ and also $\alpha ^ { [ k ] } , \beta _ { k }$ , for $k = 1 : \zeta - 1$ . The extra parameter $\beta _ { k }$ allows us to consider the basic optimization algorithm PGD $( \beta _ { k } = 0 )$ or its accelerated version APGD. After training our U-HTNN, we get an approximation map $\mathbf { u } ^ { \mathrm { U - H T N N } } ( x _ { 0 } )$ , with $\hat { \Theta } =$ $( \hat { Q } _ { 1 } ^ { [ k ] } , \hat { Q } _ { 2 } ^ { [ k ] } ) _ { k = 1 : \zeta }$ . Given the structure of the U-HTNN network, tion $\mathbf { u } ^ { \mathrm { U - H T N N } } ( x _ { 0 } )$ , which depends on the (optimal) parameters $\hat { \Theta } ^ { * }$ of the U-HTNN:

$$\mathbf {u} ^ {\mathrm{U-HTNN}} (x _ {0}) = \mathcal {M} _ {i n} ^ {\mathrm{U-HTNN}} \mathcal {M} _ {a x} ^ {\mathrm{U-HTNN}} (x _ {0}; \hat {\Theta} ^ {*}). \tag {21}$$

Denote $\zeta$ number of layers and w the number of neurons in each hidden layer. From existing universal approximation theorems for PWA/min-max functions one can also derive a uniform bound on this approximation, see [11, 9] for more details:

$$\left\| \mathbf {u} ^ {*} (x _ {0}) - \mathbf {u} ^ {\mathrm{U-HTNN}} (x _ {0}) \right\| \leq \mathcal {O} (\zeta , w) \quad \forall x _ {0} \in \mathbb {X}.$$

The following proposition establishes the relation between U-HTNN and (A)PGD algorithms. The proof follows from the fact that the projection operator fits the HardTanh activation function.

Theorem 3. Set, for every $k \in \{ 1 , \ldots , \zeta \} , Q _ { 1 } ^ { [ k ] } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \nu \times \nu } , Q _ { 2 } ^ { [ k ] } \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { \nu \times \nu } , W ^ { [ k ] } , b ^ { [ k ] }$ and $\eta ^ { [ k ] }$ provided by U-HTNN. $I f Q _ { 1 } ^ { [ k ] } = \alpha _ { k } \mathbf { H } ,$ , $Q _ { \gamma } ^ { [ k ] } = \mathbf { A } ^ { T } \mathbf { Q } \mathbf { A } _ { N }$ and $\mathbf { u } _ { 0 } = \mathbf { u } _ { 1 } = \mathbf { y } _ { 1 }$ , then U-HTNN fits the generic (A)PGD optimization schemes (7) or (8).
