There exist some efforts in literature towards threat modeling of various cyber-physical systems. For example, the work [16] explored threat models of cyber-physical energy systems. In [17], a reinforcement learning based approach was presented for automated adversarial emulation in general cyber-physical systems. The work [18] also explored a systematic approach for threat modeling in cyber-physical processes. However, most of these existing works either focus on general cyber-physical system without consideration of specific application-focused dynamics or deal with applications different from battery systems. In terms of battery systems, the work in [15] briefly discussed stealthy attack generation which captures the relationship between input and output attacks for stealthiness. Similarly, the work in [19] utilizes an adversarial threat model that considers overcharge/discharge objectives in designing input and output attacks. However, this adversarial model is formulated in an ad-hoc manner – without applying a systematic approach. Specifically, in order to understand the potential cyber threats to battery systems, an adversarial threat model has not been systemically studied which considers all of the following aspects: (i) how the primary purpose of the battery system is hampered, that is, how the power delivering and/or charging capabilities can be potentially compromised with specific over-charging and overdischarging objectives; (ii) how battery safety is adversely affected under attacks; (iii) how stealthiness of attacks can be maintained; and (iv) how physical knowledge of the battery systems (current-voltage-charge dynamics), along with multiobjective adversarial goals arising from unsafe state generation and stealthiness, can potentially be leveraged to inject the aforementioned attacks. This work addresses these gaps by developing an adversarial modeling framework which formulates an multi-objective optimal control problem for potentially undesirable/unsafe operations and utilizes a combination of model and feedback data to enforce stealthiness.
