To illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed threat model or attack generation approach, we will use the following test cases where the current profiles are derived from UDDS and US06 velocity profiles:

• Test Case 1: Modified UDDS-based profile where userintended discharging is 80% to 50% SoC. The adversary’s intent is to over-discharge to 20% SoC.

• Test Case 2: Modified US06-based profile where userintended discharging is 80% to 50% SoC. The adversary’s intent is to over-discharge to 20% SoC.   
• Test Case 3: Modified UDDS-based profile where userintended charging is 20% to 50% SoC. The adversary’s intent is to overcharge to 80% SoC.   
• Test Case 4: Modified US06-based profile where userintended charging is 20% to 50% SoC. The adversary’s intent is to overcharge to 80% SoC.

In these aforementioned test cases, the input current attacks are generated using the optimal-control strategy described in Section III-C. Subsequently, the output voltage attacks are generated as discussed in Section III-D, using the combination of the open-loop model and real-time voltage feedback. Next, we illustrate the results for these test cases.

In Fig. 6, the results for Test Case 1 are shown. In Fig. 6(b), the “User-intended current” profile is shown. The generated input “Current attack” is shown in Fig. 6(a), which serves the purpose of over-discharging the battery to 20% SoC, ultimately leading to the applied “Current under adversarial input attack” shown in Fig. 6(b). As a result, the battery is being over-discharged, as shown by the “voltage under only input attack” plot in Fig. 6(c) and “SoC under adversarial attack” in Fig. 6(d). Both of these plots indicate that the battery is being over-discharged. Next, to realize stealthiness, output “Voltage attack” is generated, as shown in Fig. 6(a). This output voltage attack is added to the “voltage under only input attack” to generate “voltage under both input and output attack”. As can be seen from Fig. 6(c), the “voltage under both input and output attack” and “Nominal voltage under no attack” are very close to each other, thereby making the attack scenario almost indistinguishable from the no attack scenario.
