Optogenetics is the encoding of light sensitive opsins in neurons for selective stimulation or inhibition of neuronal activity. The advantages of control, precision and reversibility provide a wide range of possible applications for optogenetic methods. Many groups are currently researching and developing devices for optical stimulation applicable for in vitro and in vivo optogenetics. The major advantage offered by optogenetics is its temporal precision and noninvasive control of activity. Boyden et al. [3] demonstrated that photoactivation of cation permeable Channelrhodopsin2 (ChR2) can regulate the membrane potential and spiking in genetically targeted neurons on a millisecond time scale. A wide range of models exist to simulate and predict the behavior of living neuronal networks. The Hodgkin-Huxley model is a conductance-based model with a high level of bio-realism and real-time operation. Additionally, calcium dependent channel models have been embedded in these realizations for neuronal adaptation. Using these state models in combination, neural processors for simulation and prediction of opto-neural behavior have been developed [8], which can be used to stimulate biologically plausible models.

Neurons in biological networks communicate via spike patterns. The strength of synapse between neurons determines spiking patterns and model function. Biological neural networks offer several constraints that make traditional methods of ANN training impossible to implement. Existing training algorithms depend on direct manipulation of synaptic weights, which is not possible in biological networks. However, synaptic weights can be controlled by forced external stimulation of neurons to trigger spike timing dependent plasticity (STDP) based weight changes. Other constraints involve using spike rates in place of decimal outputs, restriction to only positive conductance values and unalterable activation functions.

In this paper we propose an indirect STDP based backpropagation algorithm used to train biologically plausible neural networks with optogenetic precision.
