The biggest advantage optical stimulation offers over electrical stimulation is its high specificity and resolution which provides the ability to perform single cell excitation, thus aiding in precise training of neural cultures. Various groups have developed LED microarrays that can facilitate this level of precision. Streude et all [22] have developed a microarray connected to a high-definition multimedia driver with a flexible connector. Each pixel of the array can be turned on and off by the driver and the CMOS backplane, thus providing controlled light exposure of individual cells. Light-induced changes in cell membrane current are measured with a patch clamp electrode (voltage clamp mode, whole-cell configuration). Braekan et al [24] have developed a multi-electrode-optrode array chip. The light is introduced into the system at the input array region, which is located at the edge of the chip. There is a grating coupler at each location (indicated with a triangle) that couples light into a particular waveguide when a light source is placed above it. The light is then carried by the corresponding waveguide into one of the optrodes (output grating coupler). The MEOA is composed of an array of eight-by-eight optrodes and TiN electrodes. There are two types of optrodes for two different wavelengths (450 nm, corresponding to blue, and 590 nm, corresponding to amber), which are vertically interlaced. The algorithm proposed in this work relies on this type of specificity for its implementation.
