# Data-driven Dynamic Event-triggered Control

Tao Xu, Zhiyong Sun, Guanghui Wen, and Zhisheng Duan

Abstract—This paper revisits the event-triggered control problem from a data-driven perspective, where unknown continuoustime linear systems subject to disturbances are taken into account. Using data information collected off-line instead of accurate system model information, a data-driven dynamic eventtriggered control scheme is developed in this paper. The dynamic property is reflected by that the designed event-triggering function embedded in the event-triggering mechanism (ETM) is dynamically updated as a whole. Thanks to this dynamic design, a strictly positive minimum inter-event time (MIET) is guaranteed without sacrificing control performance. Specifically, exponential input-to-state stability (ISS) of the closed-loop system with respect to disturbances is achieved in this paper, which is superior to some existing results that only guarantee a practical exponential ISS property. The dynamic ETM is easy-to-implement in practical operation since all designed parameters are determined only by a simple data-driven linear matrix inequality (LMI), without additional complicated conditions as required in relevant literature. As quantization is the most common signal constraint in practice, the developed control scheme is further extended to the case where state transmission is affected by a uniform or logarithmic quantization effect. Finally, adequate simulations are performed to show the validity and superiority of the proposed control schemes.

Index Terms—Dynamic event-triggered control, data-driven mechanism, unknown disturbed linear systems, exponential ISS, state quantization.
