# 2.2. Preliminaries

This segment presents an overview of the mathematical tools and background results which will be needed in the development of the LMI conditions.

Lemma 1 (Reformulated Lipschitz property[13]). Let us consider a global Lipschitz nonlinear function $h : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . Then, for all $i , j \in \{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ , there exists functions $h _ { i j } : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R }$ such that ∀ Ψ, $\Phi \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ ,

$$h (\Psi) - h (\Phi) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {n} h _ {i j} \mathcal {H} _ {i j} (\Psi - \Phi), \tag {1}$$

where $\mathcal { H } _ { i j } = e _ { n } ( i ) e _ { n } ^ { \top } ( j )$ and $h _ { i j } \triangleq h _ { i j } ( \Psi ^ { \Phi _ { j - 1 } } , \Psi ^ { \Phi _ { j } } )$ . Additionally, the functions $h _ { i j }$ hold

$$h _ {i j _ {\min}} \leq h _ {i j} \leq h _ {i j _ {\max}}, \tag {2}$$

where hij $h _ { i j _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } }$ and hijmax $h _ { i j _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } }$ are constants.

Lemma 2 (Young’s inequalities). For any two vectors X, $Y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and a matrix $Z > 0 \in$ $\mathbf { S } ^ { n }$ , the ensuing inequalities are true:

$$X ^ {\top} Y + Y ^ {\top} X \leq X ^ {\top} Z ^ {- 1} X + Y ^ {\top} Z Y, \tag {3}$$

and

$$X ^ {\top} Y + Y ^ {\top} X \leq (X + Z Y) ^ {\top} (2 Z) ^ {- 1} (X + Z Y). \tag {4}$$

The inequality (3) is known as the standard Young’s inequality. However, the authors of [2] presented a variant of Young’s inequality, represented by (4).

Lemma 3 ( [12]). Let us consider

$$
\mathbb {X} ^ {\top} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} a _ {1} \mathbb {I} _ {n} & a _ {2} \mathbb {I} _ {n} & \dots & a _ {n} \mathbb {I} _ {n} \end{array} \right], \tag {5}

\mathbb {Y} ^ {\top} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} b _ {1} \mathbb {I} _ {n} & b _ {2} \mathbb {I} _ {n} & \dots & b _ {n} \mathbb {I} _ {n} \end{array} \right], \tag {6}
$$

along with

$$
Z = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} Z _ {1} & Z _ {a _ {1} ^ {2}} & \dots & Z _ {a _ {1} ^ {n}} \\ \star & Z _ {2} & \dots & Z _ {a _ {2} ^ {n}} \\ \star & \star & \ddots & \vdots \\ \star & \star & \dots & Z _ {n} \end{array} \right], \tag {7}
$$

where $0 \leq a _ { i } \leq b _ { i } \forall i \in \{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ and $Z _ { i } > 0 \in \mathbf { S } ^ { n } , \ Z _ { a _ { \cdot } ^ { j } } \geq 0 \in \mathbf { S } ^ { n } \ \forall \ i \in \{ 1 , \dots , n \}$ so that $Z > 0$ . Then, the subsequent inequality is fulfilled:

$$\mathbb {X} ^ {\top} Z \mathbb {X} - \mathbb {Y} ^ {\top} Z \mathbb {Y} \leq 0. \tag {8}$$

For the proof of Lemma 3, one can refer [12].

Lemma 4. For any given matrices A, B and C of appropriate dimension, the subsequent equality is true:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l l} A ^ {\top} C A & A ^ {\top} C B \\ B ^ {\top} C A & B ^ {\top} P B \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} A & B \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} C \left[ \begin{array}{l l} A & B \end{array} \right] \tag {9}
$$

The proof of this lemma is very straightforward. Through matrix multiplication, one can easily derive (9).
