# B. Problem formulation

Consider the continuous-time linear system subject to disturbance

$$\dot {x} (t) = A x (t) + B u (t) + d (t), \tag {1}$$

where $A \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ and $B \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ are system matrices, and $x ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , u ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ and $\ b { d } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ represent the system state, control input, and disturbance, respectively.

Two common assumptions about system matrices and disturbances are made as follows.

Assumption 1: The system matrices A and B are real, constant and unknown, and the pair $( A , B )$ is stabilizable.

Assumption 2: The disturbance $d ( t )$ is unknown, piecewise continuous, and bounded in the sense that $\| d ( t ) \| \leq \bar { d } < + \infty$ .

Motivated by [11], an off-line collected data set is introduced in the following:

$$\mathcal {S} = \{x (t), \dot {x} (t), u (t): t \in \{0, \varsigma , \dots , (\tau - 1) \varsigma \} \}, \tag {2}$$

where ς represents the sampling period and τ is the number of samplings. It should be pointed out that the periodical sampling performed in (2) is to ease the exposition, while aperiodical sampling is also allowed to collect data. Using the collected data from S, some matrices with data-driven components are defined as follows:

$$\mathcal {X} _ {0} = [ x (0) \quad x (\varsigma) \quad \dots \quad x ((\tau - 1) \varsigma) ] \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n \times \tau}, \tag {3a}\mathcal {X} _ {1} = [ \dot {x} (0) \quad \dot {x} (\varsigma) \quad \dots \quad \dot {x} ((\tau - 1) \varsigma) ] \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n \times \tau}, \tag {3b}\mathcal {U} _ {0} = \left[ u (0) \quad u (\varsigma) \quad \dots \quad u ((\tau - 1) \varsigma) \right] \in \mathbb {R} ^ {m \times \tau}, \tag {3c}\mathcal {D} _ {0} = [ d (0) \quad d (\varsigma) \quad \dots \quad d ((\tau - 1) \varsigma) ] \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n \times \tau}, \tag {3d}$$

where $\mathcal { X } _ { 0 } , \mathcal { X } _ { 1 }$ and $\mathcal { U } _ { \mathrm { 0 } }$ are available, and $\mathcal { D } _ { 0 }$ is unknown.

A couple of assumptions imposed on $\mathcal { X } _ { 0 } , \mathcal { U } _ { 0 }$ and $\mathcal { D } _ { 0 }$ are introduced as follows.

Assumption 3: The matrix $[ \mathcal { U } _ { 0 } ^ { T } \quad \mathcal { X } _ { 0 } ^ { T } ] ^ { T }$ has full row rank.

Assumption 4: $\mathcal { D } _ { 0 } \in \mathrm { D }$ , where $\mathrm { D } = \{ \mathcal { D } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times \tau } : \mathcal { D } \mathcal { D } ^ { T } \preceq$ $\Delta \Delta ^ { T } \}$ , with $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ being a known and bounded matrix.

The control objective of this paper is to develop datadriven control schemes with dynamic ETMs for continuoustime disturbed linear systems (1) without degrading system performance, in the absence and presence of quantization.
