for $u _ { j } \in \left[ { \underline { { u } } } _ { j } , { \overline { { u } } } _ { j } \right] , j = 1 : p .$ , where

$$
\phi \left(j; u _ {1}, u _ {2}, \dots , u _ {p}\right) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \max _ {i = \{2 j - 1: 2 j \}} u _ {i}, & \text { if } j = 1: \frac {p - 1}{2} \\ \eta \left(u _ {p}, \underline {{u}} _ {p}, \overline {{u}} _ {p}\right), & \text { if } j = \frac {p + 1}{2}. \end{array} \right.
$$

Further, we denote by $r ( p )$ the number of min-max operations from HardTanh function, i.e., the number of $\eta ( \cdot )$ evaluations, for computing the maximum of $p$ real numbers using (13). By expanding the operation in the aforementioned equation, one can find $r ( 2 ) = 2$ and $r ( 3 ) = 5$ . We define $r ( 1 ) = 0 ,$ since no maximum operation is needed for finding the extremum of a singleton. Thus, according to (13), for any integer $p \geq 3$ , we obtain the recursion:

$$
r (p) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} p + r (\frac {p}{2}), & \text { if   } p \text {   is   even } \\ p + r (\frac {p + 1}{2}), & \text { if   } p \text {   is   odd. } \end{array} \right. \tag {14}
$$

Note that $r ( p )$ is the number of HardTanh functions in a HTNN that computes the maximum of p real numbers or a max-affine convex function. The number of HardTanh functions is equivalent to the number of hidden neurons. Note that the number of HardTanh layers is equivalent to the number of hidden layers. We now consider computing the maximum of $\bar { m } = 2 ^ { p }$ real numbers for any positive integer $p .$ . Then, every time the recursion goes to the next level in (14), the number of variables considered for computing the maximum is halved. Hence, the number of HT layers is $p .$ When ¯m is not a power of two, i.e., $2 ^ { p } < \bar { m } < 2 ^ { p + 1 }$ , then we can always construct a HT network with $p + 1$ HT layers and $2 ^ { p + 1 }$ input neurons, and set weights connected to the $2 ^ { p + 1 } - { \bar { m } }$ ”phantom input neurons” to zeros. Because $\left\lceil \log _ { 2 } \bar { m } \right\rceil = p + 1$ for $2 ^ { p } < \bar { m } < 2 ^ { p + 1 }$ , the number of HT layers is $\lceil \log _ { 2 } \bar { m } \rceil$ ⌉ for any positive integer ¯m. Hence, we have $\zeta ( \bar { m } ) = \bar { \lceil \log _ { 2 } \bar { m } \rceil } + 1$ . Note that $r ( { \bar { m } } )$ is a strictly increasing sequence. Therefore, the maximum width of the network is given by the width of the first hidden layer. When we have one layer or $\bar { m } = 1$ , the width is 0. When the number of layers is greater than 1 or $\bar { m } > 1$ , we have $w ( { \bar { m } } ) = { \bar { m } }$ . □
