# 1. Introduction

Model predictive control (MPC) is an advanced control technology that is implemented for a variety of systems and is popular due to its ability to handle input and state constraints [23]. MPC is based on the repeated solution of constrained optimal control problems. Due to its constraint handling capabilities, MPC can outperform classic control strategies in many applications.

In its implicit variant, the optimal control inputs are computed by solving an optimization problem on-line that minimizes some cost function subject to state/input constraints, taking the current state as an initial condition. In particular, for linear MPC, the corresponding optimal control problem can be recast as a convex quadratic program (QP). Many numerical algorithms have been developed in the literature that exploit efficiently the structure arising in QPs. Basically, we can identify three popular classes of optimization algorithms to solve QPs: active set methods [1, 8], interior point methods [18, 5] and (dual) first order methods [14, 19, 20, 22, 25].

The optimal solutions to these MPC-based QPs can also be precomputed off-line using multi-parametric quadratic programming [2, 10], with the initial condition of the system viewed as a parameter in the QPs. Therefore, one can also implement an explicit version of the MPC policy, which consists of implementing a piecewise affine (PWA) control law. Then, in the online phase, the main computational effort consists of the identification over some polyhedral partition of the state-space of the region in which the system state resides, e.g., using a binary search tree, and implementing the associated control action.
