# I. INTRODUCTION

N ADVANCED control theory and applications, the prac-I tical implementation of a controlled system is often based on a digital platform, which mainly consists of physical plants, sensors, samplers, controllers, and actuators. Interestingly, the sampled information is transmitted to controller over a shared communication network instead of dedicated point-to-point links [1], [2].

The samplers in traditional control setups are time-triggered, in the sense that the sampling instants are determined by continuous time or fixed periods, which will inevitably result in redundant transmissions. In other words, the communication is artificially forced to be performed either continuously or periodically, even when it is not actually needed. As emphasized

This work is supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants T2121002 and 62173006, and in part by the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation under Grants 2022TQ0029 and 2022M720435. (Corresponding author: Zhiyong Sun.)

T. Xu is with the School of Mechatronical Engineering, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China, and also with the Yangtze Delta Region Academy of Beijing Institute of Technology, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, China (e-mail: xutao0429@pku.edu.cn).

Z. Sun is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, the Netherlands (e-mail: sun.zhiyong.cn@gmail.com).

G. Wen is with the Department of Systems Science, Southeast University, Nanjing, China (e-mail: wenguanghui@gmail.com).

Z. Duan is with the Department of Mechanics and Engineering Science, Peking University, Beijing, China (e-mail: duanzs@pku.edu.cn).

in the surveys [1], [2], communication networks can only carry a finite amount of information, which restricts the operation of controlled systems and hinders the achievement of control tasks. Some practical systems are often afflicted by communication resource limitations, such as stealth-required unmanned air vehicles, power-starved planetary rovers, energy-limited underwater vehicles, etc. [1].
