# III. PROBLEM STATEMENT

We want to maintain a set of inspector spacecrafts with dynamics as in (2), ϵ-close to a set of distinct PROs (Tab. I) relative to the ISS. The PRO set is defined to avoid collision between the inspectors as long as each inspector is within a safe corridor from its reference. Hence, no active collision avoidance is needed. Therefore, we propose a CMPC [11] control scheme subject to two HOCBF constraints for each inspector: one to constraint the maximum position tracking error and the other to constraint the maximum velocity tracking error. We consider the following problem.

Problem 1. Consider a set of n inspector spacecraft $s _ { i } , i = 1 , \ldots n$ in relative orbit around a space vehicle with dynamics (2), and assume the space vehicle to be in a nearly circular orbit. Consider as well n distinct reference PROs $\begin{array} { r } { \pmb { x } _ { i , r } ( t ) = [ \delta \pmb { r } _ { i , r } , \delta \pmb { v } _ { i , r } ] ^ { T } } \end{array}$ with relative velocity $\delta { \pmb v } _ { r } ( t )$ and position $\delta r _ { r } ( t )$ according to Table I such that each inspector $s _ { i }$ is assigned to a specific reference $P R O ~ { \bf x } _ { r , i }$ . We consider how to synthesize a ZOH feedback control input $K _ { i } ( \tilde { \pmb { x } } , t ) \in \mathbb { U }$ for each inspector under dynamics (2) such that $\| \delta \tilde { { \mathbf { r } } } _ { i } ( t ) - \delta { { \mathbf { r } } _ { i , r } } ( t ) \| \leq \epsilon _ { \delta { r } } \forall t \in \mathbb { I }$ with $\epsilon _ { \delta r } \in \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ .
