# II. PROBLEM SETTING AND PRELIMINARIES

In this paper, a MAS with $N \in  { \mathbb { N } } _ { + }$ homogeneous agents is considered, whose dynamics is expressed by

$$\dot {x} _ {i} = h (x _ {i}) + f (x _ {i}) + g (x _ {i}) u _ {i}, \forall i = 1, \dots , N, \tag {1}$$

where $x _ { i } \in \mathbb { X } \subset \mathbb { R }$ with a compact domain X and $u _ { i } \in \mathbb { R }$ denote the system state and control input, respectively. For notational simplicity, we focus on scalar agent dynamics, whose results can be directly extended to multi-dimensional cases by using multi-input-output machine learning tools and the Kronecker operator. The functions $h : \mathbb { X }  \mathbb { R }$ and $g :$ $\mathbb { X } \to$ R describe the known parts of the individual dynamics of the agents, while the function $f : \mathbb { X } \to \mathbb { R }$ is regarded as unknown components such as unmodeled dynamics and environmental uncertainties. To ensure the controllability for each agent, the following assumption on $g ( \cdot )$ is required.

Assumption 1: For any $x _ { i } \in \mathbb { X } .$ , it has $g ( x _ { i } ) \neq 0$ .

The non-singularity of $g ( \cdot )$ is a common prerequisite for the controller non-autonomous system, such that the control input $u _ { i }$ is effective at any state. While this assumption induces restrictions on the system class, the focus of this paper is on the design of event-triggered learning-based controllers. The extension to other system classes is left in the future work.
