with $\begin{array} { r } { \mathbf { \boldsymbol { g } } ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } , t ) ~ = ~ [ O _ { 3 } , I _ { 3 } ] ^ { T } , ~ \mathbf { \boldsymbol { f } } ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } , t ) ~ = ~ [ \mathbf { \boldsymbol { f } } _ { r } ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } , t ) , \mathbf { \boldsymbol { f } } _ { v } ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } , t ) ] ^ { T } } \end{array}$ and $\pmb { \mathscr { u } } \in \mathbb { U } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ the acceleration from the inspector’s propulsion system. We assume $\mathbb { U }$ and $\tilde { \mathbb { X } }$ are compact sets containing the origin, and I is a compact time interval. The full dynamics of (1) can be found in [7, Eqs. 4.14-4.16] and are omitted for brevity. Nonetheless, $f$ and g are of class $C ^ { \infty }$ in t and x for any compact set $\tilde { \mathbb { X } }$ such that $\delta \pmb { r } \neq \pmb { r } _ { s v } ; \forall \pmb { x } \in \tilde { \mathbb { X } }$ . Under the effect of orbital perturbations, the nominal dynamics (1) become

$$
\dot {\tilde {\boldsymbol {x}}} = \tilde {\eta} (\tilde {\boldsymbol {x}}, t, \boldsymbol {d}) = \boldsymbol {f} (\tilde {\boldsymbol {x}}, t) + \boldsymbol {g} (\tilde {\boldsymbol {x}}, t) (\boldsymbol {u} + \boldsymbol {d}) \tag {2}
$$

where $\eta ( \mathbf { x } , t ) \ \triangleq \ \widetilde { \eta } ( \widetilde { \mathbf { x } } , t , \mathbf { 0 } ) , \ d \ \in \ \mathbb { W } \ \subset \ \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ is the orbital perturbation vector gathering $J _ { 2 }$ and aerodynamic drag perturbations [13], and $\pmb { \tilde { x } } = [ \delta \tilde { \pmb { r } } , \delta \tilde { \pmb { v } } ] \in \tilde { \mathbb { X } } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 }$ is the perturbed state. The tilde notation distinguishes the perturbed state dynamics from the nominal ones. Although analytical models for d exist [13], they depend on parameters that are difficult to identify online. Therefore, we consider d an unknown bounded disturbance encompassing noise. We further assume W a compact and convex set containing the origin such that

$$
\tilde {\mathbb {X}} = \{\tilde {\boldsymbol {x}} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {6}: \| \tilde {\boldsymbol {x}} \| \leq \epsilon_ {\tilde {x}} \}, \mathbb {I} = [ 0, t _ {m a x} ],
$$

$$
\mathbb {U} = \left\{\boldsymbol {u} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {3}: \| \boldsymbol {u} \| \leq \epsilon_ {u} \right\}, \mathbb {W} = \left\{\boldsymbol {d} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {3}: \| \boldsymbol {d} \| \leq \epsilon_ {d} \right\} \tag {5}
$$
