The application of sampled-data CBF inside a Finite Horizon Optimal Control scheme (FHOC) such as MPC has already been explored in [8]. Still, safety in between discrete time steps is not analyzed. This problem is first addressed in [9] and [10], where suitable corrective terms are added to the continuous time CBF constraint formulation to ensure safety between time steps. However, only first relative degree systems under zero disturbances are analyzed in [10], while only time-invariant dynamics are analyzed in [9]. In [11], the results from [9], [10] are unified under a unique framework and expanded to first-order relative degree systems with timevarying dynamics and subject to state disturbances.

Based on the Corridor MPC (CMPC) scheme developed by [11], the contributions of this work are as follows: i) expand the definition of sampled-data CBF in [11] to the case of higher relative degree systems, ii) apply the expanded CMPC control scheme to a realistic multi-agent inspection mission of a space vehicle. The recursive feasibility of the derived CMPC control scheme is then shown numerically following an approach similar to [12]. We remark that only the planning and control parts of the inspection mission are analyzed here, while problems inherent to the visual inspection of the space vehicle are topics of future work.

The manuscript is divided as follows: Section II reviews the fundamentals of relative spacecraft dynamics and HOCBF for safety-critical systems. In Section III, we formally present the inspection problem, and Section IV proposes the new definition of sample data HOCBF as an expansion to the work in [9]–[11]. Section V presents the Corridor MPC for high-order systems. Lastly, Sections VI-VII show a numerical simulation proving the applicability of the proposed solution in a realistic inspection of the International Space Station (ISS), followed by the conclusions.
