$$\int_ {\Omega} \left(U (x, \mu) - U (x, \nu)\right) (\mu (\mathrm{d} x) - \nu (\mathrm{d} x)) \leq 0 \quad \text { for any } \quad \mu , \nu \in \mathcal {P} \quad \text { and } \quad x \in \Omega . \tag {44}$$

This condition is satisfied if Friedman and Ostrov, 2013; Leonardos and Piliouras, 2022; Tan et al., 2023). Phenomenologically, the monotonicity penalizes congestion (Delarue and Tchuendom, 2020), namely, the concentration of actions that may eventually lead to a bifurcation and, hence, non-uniqueness of solutions. This monotonicity is not needed for the unique solvability of the GPL dynamic (Proposition 1). Without the monotonicity, the existence follows if the Lipschitz continuity is satisfied and the action space has been discretized as in Section 2.5; however, uniqueness would not necessarily apply (Gomes et al., 2013). This difference between the two problems sharing the same set of parameter values (except for  ) is caused by the different assumptions in their perspectives against the decision-making. In an evolutionary game that includes (generalized pair-wise) logit dynamics, each player chooses actions based only on the current information without any foresights. By contrast, in the MFG, he/she chooses actions to maximize an objective function, which is a conditional expectation and therefore a prediction. Indeed, the model predictive control is more myopic than the original MFG, as inferred from the analysis in Section 3.2. Later, we show an example where the GPL dynamic successfully computes a solution, while the corresponding MFG does not numerically converge, possibly owing to the absence of monotonicity.
