# III. PASSIVE IFIR CONTROLLERS

Although VRFT is an established and effective design methodology, the data-driven optimal controller (2) does not guarantee closed-loop stability. For passive plants P , we tackle this issue through passivity. We combine the leastsquare fitting (5) with specific constraints that enforce passivity. This leads to the derivation of the passive iFIR controller that best fits the desired input / output data (2).

The first formulation is a straightforward application of the Kalman-Yakubovich-Popov (KYP) lemma.

Theorem 3.1 (KYP approach): Given the iFIR (1) of order $m ,$ consider the state-space realization of the FIR part

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} x (t + 1) = A _ {c} x (t) + B _ {c} w (t) \\ z (t) = C _ {c} x (t) + D _ {c} w (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {6}
$$

where $w ( t ) , z ( t )$ are the input and output of the FIR part. $A _ { c } \ \in \ \mathring { \mathbb { R } } ^ { m - 1 \times m - 1 } , B _ { c } \ \in \ \mathring { \mathbb { R } } ^ { m - 1 } , C _ { c } \ \in \ \mathring { \mathbb { R } } ^ { m - 1 } , D _ { c } \ \in \ \mathring { \mathbb { R } }$ are given by

$$
\begin{array}{l} A _ {c} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c c} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 & \ldots & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 & \ldots & 0 \\ \vdots & & & & \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & \ldots & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & \ldots & & 0 \end{array} \right], \quad B _ {c} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 0 \\ \vdots \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{array} \right] \\ C _ {c} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c} g _ {m - 1} & g _ {m - 2} & \dots & g _ {2} & g _ {1} \end{array} \right], \quad D _ {c} = g _ {0}. \\ \end{array}
$$

The optimal iFIR controller given by (2) constrained to the following LMIs in the unknown $\pmb { X } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m - 1 \times m - 1 } , C _ { c }$ , and $D _ { c }$

$$\gamma \geq 0 \quad (7 a)X = X ^ {T} > 0 \tag {7b}
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} X - A _ {c} ^ {T} X A _ {c} & C _ {c} ^ {T} - A _ {c} ^ {T} X B _ {c} \\ C _ {c} - B _ {c} ^ {T} X A _ {c} & D _ {c} + D _ {c} ^ {T} - B _ {c} ^ {T} X B _ {c} \end{array} \right] \geq 0 \tag {7c}
D _ {c} + D _ {c} ^ {T} \geq 0. \tag {7d}$$

is passive, thus guarantees closed-loop stability.

Proof: (7) are the standard matrix inequalities for passivity of discrete LTI systems. These are linear in the unknowns $C _ { c }$ and X. The passivity of the iFIR controller follows from the KYP lemma [18, Thm. 1], recalling that the parallel interconnection of passive systems is passive. Closed-loop stability follows from the passivity theorem.
