# D. Properties

A significant challenge in hierarchical control is the coordination of control levels operating at different frequencies and using different agent models. Without coordination, the high-level controller may assign task routes that the agents cannot achieve while satisfying low-level state and actuation constraints. We define desirable properties for a control architecture as in Alg. 1, which can be achieved with proper coordination.

Definition 1 (Iterative Feasibility): A control architecture as in $\mathrm { A l g }$ . 1 is iteratively feasible from an initial agent state $x _ { S }$ if the feasibility of $\mathbf { x } ^ { r }$ implies the feasibility of $\mathbf { x } ^ { r + 1 }$ for all $r \geq 1$ .

Iterative feasibility ensures that if the hierarchical controller ever finds a feasible task assignment and corresponding agent trajectory (or is provided with one), it will remain feasible at subsequent iterations.

We define the function

$$g _ {\tau} (x _ {0}, x _ {1}, \ldots , x _ {T}) = [ x _ {0} ^ {H}, x _ {1} ^ {H}, \ldots , x _ {K} ^ {H} ] = \mathbf {x} ^ {H}$$

mapping an agent trajectory to the corresponding high-level state trajectory. Given a high-level state trajectory, we define

$$V _ {n} ^ {H} ([ x _ {0} ^ {H}, x _ {1} ^ {H}, \dots , x _ {K} ^ {H} ]) \tag {20}$$

to count the number of unique nodes apart from the depot visited in the trajectory. We can now define the function

$$V _ {n} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r}) = V _ {n} ^ {H} (g _ {\tau} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r}))$$

which maps a closed-loop agent trajectory to how many unique nodes the agent visited (tasks the agent accomplished) before returning to the depot. This is the function the hierarchical controller in Alg. 1 aims to maximize at each iteration.

Definition 2 (Iterative Performance Improvement):

A control architecture as in Alg. 1 exhibits iterative performance improvement from an initial state $x _ { S }$ if $V _ { n } ( \mathbf { x } ^ { r } ) \leq V _ { n } ( \mathbf { x } ^ { r + 1 } )$ .

Iterative Performance Improvement ensures that closed-loop performance will not suffer as more task iterations are performed and more data is collected.
