For $\eta = 0 . 0 5$ and $\eta = 0 . 1$ , we obtained converged numerical solutions as shown in Figures 9– 10. Convergence analyses of the GPL dynamic and MFG are presented in Appendix C. For $\eta = 0 . 0 5$ Figure 11 compares the stationary PDF for the GPL dynamic and that with the corresponding MFG solutions at time $t = T / 2$ for $T = 4 0$ , 80, and 160. Figure 12 shows the results for $\eta = 0 . 1$ . For the MFG, the PDF is considered to be close to a “quasi-stationary state” at time $t = T / 2$ , around which it is almost invariant with respect to time, and the value function (Achdou and Capuzzo-Dolcetta, 2010). The time instance $t = T / 2$ is therefore suitable for comparing the GPL dynamic and MFG (see Appendix C). For both $\eta = 0 . 0 5$ and $\eta = 0 . 1$ , the computational results suggest that for the MFG, a more conservative strategy with more concentrating actions on a smaller  is optimal. The short-sightedness of the GPL dynamic therefore recommends an excessive cost in conjunction with high return action for the Toami competition. Contrary to the findings of Barker et al. (2022), the PDF of the GPL dynamic is more diffused than that of the MFG. However, directly comparing their and our models is difficult because of fundamental differences owing to assuming different noise processes, different objective functions and, more importantly, different evolutionally game models. Systematically comparing the evolutionary game and the associated MFG for generic stochastic system dynamics would require the development of a unified mathematical theory along with further case studies.
