# Synchronisation-Oriented Design Approach for Adaptive Control

Namhoon Cho∗

Cranfield University, Cranfield, MK43 0AL, Bedfordshire, United Kingdom

Seokwon Lee†

Chung-Ang University, Seoul, 06974, Republic of Korea

Hyo-Sang Shin‡§

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Daejeon, 34051, Republic of Korea

Cranfield University, Cranfield, MK43 0AL, Bedfordshire, United Kingdom

This study presents a synchronisation-oriented perspective towards adaptive control which views model-referenced adaptation as synchronisation between actual and virtual dynamic systems. In the context of adaptation, model reference adaptive control methods make the state response of the actual plant follow a reference model. In the context of synchronisation, consensus methods involving diffusive coupling induce a collective behaviour across multiple agents. We draw from the understanding about the two time-scale nature of synchronisation motivated by the study of blended dynamics. The synchronisation-oriented approach consists in the design of a coupling input to achieve desired closed-loop error dynamics followed by the input allocation process to shape the collective behaviour. We suggest that synchronisation can be a reasonable design principle allowing a more holistic and systematic approach to the design of adaptive control systems for improved transient characteristics. Most notably, the proposed approach enables not only constructive derivation but also substantial generalisation of the previously developed closed-loop reference model adaptive control method. Practical significance of the proposed generalisation lies at the capability to improve the transient response characteristics and mitigate the unwanted peaking phenomenon at the same time.
