# 2.3 Generalized pair-wise logit (GPL) dynamic

For any $A \in B$ , the GPL dynamic is given by the following evolution equation that governs a timedependent probability measure $\mu = \mu { \left( t , \cdot \right) } \in \mathcal { P }$ :

$$\frac {\mathrm{d} \mu (t , A)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \int_ {A} \left(\int_ {\Omega} a (z, x, \mu) \mu (t, \mathrm{dz})\right) \mathrm{d} x - \int_ {A} \left(\int_ {\Omega} a (x, y, \mu) \mathrm{dy}\right) \mu (t, \mathrm{dx}) \text {for any} t > 0, \tag {10}$$

subject to a prescribed initial condition $\mu ( 0 , \cdot ) = \mu _ { 0 } \in \mathscr { P }$ , where  t is the non-dimensional time. The time derivative of  is understood in the strong sense with the total variation norm (e.g., Mendoza-Palacios and Hernández-Lerma (2015)). The GPL dynamic (10) describes the evolution of  in a way that the local temporal change of  (left-hand side) equals the inflow from the other actions (first term in the right-hand side) minus the outflow to the other actions (second term in the right-hand side).

Ifμhas a probability density function (PDF),i.e.， $\mu ( t , { \mathrm { d } } x ) = p { \bigl ( } t , x { \bigr ) } { \mathrm { d } } x$ ，where $p : [ 0 , + \infty ) \times \Omega  [ 0 , + \infty )$ and $\int _ { \Omega } p \big ( t , x \big ) \mathrm { d } x = 1$ , then (10) becomes

$$\frac {\mathrm{d} p (t , x)}{\mathrm{d} t} = \int_ {\Omega} a (z, x, \mu) p (t, z) \mathrm{d} z - \left(\int_ {\Omega} a (x, y, \mu) \mathrm{d} y\right) p (t, x) \text {for any} x \in \Omega \text {and} t > 0. \tag {11}$$

From this perspective, the connection of the GPL dynamic to jump-driven Markov processes is inferred, where the coefficient  plays the role of a state-dependent jump intensity of a pure-jump Markov process (e.g., Dupret and Hainaut, 2023; Yoshioka et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2020) and (11) as the associated FP equation. As we will show later, the space-discretized version of the GPL dynamic corresponds to an FP equation of a nonlinear Markov chain. This perspective is a key to the formulation of an MFG version of the GPL dynamic.

Remark 2: The GPL dynamic turns out to be an evolutionary system to maximize the utility  subject to a control cost of the state transition  (see Section 3). Particularly, the profile of  is explicitly obtained from the control cost. The GPL dynamic is therefore seen as a costly optimization protocol.
