$$\left\| \eta^ {*} - \eta \right\| < \varepsilon_ {w}, \tag {10}\left\| f _ {1} \left(s ^ {t}, a ^ {t}\right) - f _ {2} \left(s ^ {t}, a ^ {t}\right) \right\| = \| e (t) \| \leq \varepsilon_ {e}, \tag {11}$$

where $\varepsilon _ { w } > 0 , \varepsilon _ { e } > 0$ , they represents the bound of distance between the optimal weights and actual weights and the distance between the outputs predictor generated by these two set of weights. Here, ∥ · ∥ denotes the $L _ { 2 }$ norm.

Proof: Given that the weights η are bounded, optimal set of weights $\eta ^ { * }$ exists. This implies that for the bounded sequence of weights in a finite-dimensional vector space, there is a finite maximum distance $\varepsilon _ { w } > 0$ . Due to the boundeness of $\eta$ and the continuity of the neural network function, the neural network outputs for optimal and actual weights does not exceed a bound $\varepsilon _ { e } .$ , as stated in equation (11). ■

Theorem 4.2: With the deep learning-based predictive model in place, the training error $e ( t )$ is uniformly ultimately bounded (UUB).

Proof: We construct the Lyapunov function [23] to analyze prediction errors:

$$V (e (t)) = \frac {1}{2} e ^ {T} (t) e (t). \tag {12}$$

The derivative of $V ( e ( t ) )$ is expressed as:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {V} (e (t)) = e ^ {T} (t) \dot {e} (t) \\ = e ^ {T} (t) \left(f _ {1} \left(s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t}\right) - f _ {2} \left(s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t}\right) - e (t)\right) \\ = - \| e (t) \| ^ {2} + \| e (t) \| \| \sigma (\eta^ {*} (s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t})) - \sigma (\eta (s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t})) \| \\ \leq - \| e (t) \| ^ {2} + \| e (t) \| \| \eta^ {*} \left(s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t}\right) - \eta \left(s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t}\right) \| \\ = - \left\| e (t) \right\| ^ {2} + \left\| e (t) \right\| \varepsilon_ {w} \\ = - \left\| e (t) \right\| \left(\left\| e (t) \right\| - \varepsilon_ {w}\right). \\ \end{array}
$$

Above analysis suggests that:

When the error norm $\| e ( t ) \|$ falls short of $\varepsilon _ { w } .$ , the derivative of the Lyapunov function becomes positive, indicating an escalation in the training error up to the point where $\| e ( t ) \|$ reaches the threshold $\varepsilon _ { w }$ . If the error norm equals or exceeds $\varepsilon _ { w }$ , then $\dot { V } ( e ( t ) )$ will become non-positive, leading to an error norm that is ultimately bounded by $\varepsilon _ { e }$ .

In light of these findings, it can be concluded that the training error will asymptotically be less than or equal to $\varepsilon _ { e } .$ , which proves the robustness of the predictor model.
