# 4.2 First application

The first application concerns recreational fishing for one fishing season of P. altivelis (July 1 to October 30 in a year), which is a problem in a monthly scale. In this application, $x \in \Omega$ is the arrival intensity to the Hii River with the unit 1/day, and thus each angler must buy fishing tickets depending on problem setting, each angler arrives at the river at most once in a day. We consider a time-dependent utility to be able to account for the fishing utility gained by catching larger fish.

The utility considered in this application is the time-dependent one

$$U _ {t} (x, \mu) = \int_ {\Omega} \left\{- A _ {1} \left(1 + A _ {2} y\right) x + \left(\frac {W _ {t}}{W _ {\max}} x\right) ^ {A _ {3}} \right\} \mu (\mathrm{d} y) \text {for any} x \in \Omega , t \geq 0, \mu \in \mathcal {P}, \tag {46}$$

where $A _ { 1 } , A _ { 2 } , A _ { 3 } \geq 0$ and the body weight $W _ { t } > 0$ of the fish. The first term in the right-hand side of (46) represents the arrival cost, assuming that each player (angler) pays the daily fee (Hii River Fishery Cooperative, 2023), whereas the coefficient $A _ { 2 } y$ represents the added cost due to harvesting excessive to the mean. This added cost is a manifestation of a sustainability concern such that a larger mean arrival rate of anglers leads to a larger net cost of harvesting per angler, which will effectively protect the fishery resource from overharvesting. The second term represents the utility gained by harvesting, which increases with respect to the mean body weight $W _ { t }$ of P. altivelis at time $t > 0$ . The division by the maximum body weight $W _ { \mathrm { m a x } } > 0$ is to normalize this term. This utility is monotone at each time $t \geq 0$

The body weight $W _ { t }$ is modeled by the logistic model (Yoshioka and Yaegashi, 2016)

$$\frac {W _ {t}}{W _ {\max}} = \left\{1 + \left(\frac {W _ {\max}}{W _ {0}} - 1\right) \exp (- r t) \right\} ^ {- 1}, t \geq 0 \tag {47}$$

with initial body weight $W _ { 0 } > 0$ and growth rate $r > 0$ . The least-squares fit against the data collected in 2022 gives the parameter values $W _ { \mathrm { m a x } } = 1 0 6 \mathrm { ( g ) }$ $W _ { 0 } = 1 7 . 0$ (g), and $r = 0 . 0 2 2 3$ (1/day). Here, the initial time 0 is the beginning of May 1 (see Appendix B). We set $A _ { \scriptscriptstyle 2 } = 1$ and $A _ { 1 } = A _ { 3 } = 1 / 2$ unless otherwise specified, with which each term is balanced, and the computed transient PDF is almost unimodal.
