The work of Y. Jin and W. Zhang was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 62173305.   
J. Tang, B. Lan, Y. Dong, and L. Shi are with the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong SAR (email: jtangas@connect.ust.hk; blanaa@connect.ust.hk; ydongbb@connect.ust.hk; eesling@ust.hk).   
S. Wu and G. Tian are with the Noah’s Ark Lab, Huawei Hong Kong Research Center, Sha Tin, Hong Kong SAR (email: wushuang.noah@huawei.com; Tian.Guangjian@huawei.com).   
Y. Jin and W. Zhang are with the College of Information Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, China (email: jinyqiang98@gmail.com; wazhang@zjut.edu.cn).

robots [10]–[14] still naively employ optimization methods for elements in vector space without considering the manifold constraints of the robot configuration.

In this letter, we propose a novel geometric MPC (GMPC) framework for trajectory tracking of WMRs using the matrix Lie group. The continuous nature of the matrix Lie group allows for the generation of smoother trajectories compared to the Euler angle-based method (as depicted in Fig. 1). As motivated by the recent research breakthrough on legged robot control [19], we can explore the relationship of the Lie group and the corresponding Lie algebra to convert the state space of MPC from the Lie group to the vector space. Besides, under the framework of the Lie theory, the nonholonomic kinematic constraint of WMR can be easily formulated as a linear mapping from the control input to the velocity of WMR. These advantages enable us to avoid complicated calculations of Lie group derivatives for WMR while handling the WMR’s manifold constraint and kinematic constraint simultaneously. Our contributions are multi-fold.
