# 3. Best Possible Blended Dynamics

The coupling input $U _ { c } \left( t \right)$ governing the synchronisation dynamics can be allocated to the input of each system in a manner similar to control allocation for overactuated systems. The transient response characteristics depends on the allocation choice even if the synchronisation dynamics remains the same. Therefore, the allocation should be performed so that the controlled plant exhibits desired performance characteristics.

The problem of coupling input allocation is to determine the pair of $u _ { c } \left( t \right)$ and $U _ { m } \left( t \right)$ subject to the hard constraint given by Eq. (20), which is an underdetermined system of linear equations. The number of decision variables is $n + 1$ while the constraint specifies ?? equations. The number of excess degrees-of-freedom remaining after enforcing the constraint is equal to the dimension of plant control input. This additional degree-of-freedom can be exploited to shape the closed-loop response by minimising a physically relevant convex objective function.

One reasonable direction is to keep the response of $\Sigma _ { z }$ as close as possible to $\Sigma _ { i d }$ through pointwise minimisation of the deviation between ??¤ and $\dot { x } _ { i d }$ . Given a desired coupling input $U _ { c }$ , the associated optimisation problem can be written as

$$\underset {u _ {c}, U _ {m}} {\text { minimise }} \quad J _ {p e r t} = \| W \left\{\mu b u _ {c} (t) + (1 - \mu) U _ {m} (t) \right\} \| _ {p} \tag {24}\mathrm{subjectto} U _ {m} - b u _ {c} = U _ {c}$$

where $W > 0$ and $p \in [ 1 , \infty ]$ . By substituting the constraint relation $U _ { m } = U _ { c } + b u _ { c }$ into the objective function, the equivalent unconstrained problem is to minimise

$$J _ {p e r t} = \left\| W \left\{b u _ {c} + (1 - \mu) U _ {c} \right\} \right\| _ {p} \tag {25}$$

at each instance. Modern convex programming tools provide efficient computational means of solution.

The optimal allocation can be expressed in closed-form for the case of $p = 2$ where the optimality condition can be described by

$$\frac {\partial J _ {p e r t}}{\partial u _ {c}} = \frac {\left(W \left\{b u _ {c} + (1 - \mu) U _ {c} \right\}\right) ^ {T}}{\| W \left\{b u _ {c} + (1 - \mu) U _ {c} \right\} \| _ {2}} W b = 0 \tag {26}$$

Solving Eq. (26) for $u _ { c }$ gives the optimal solution as

$$u _ {c} ^ {*} = - (1 - \mu) \left(b ^ {T} W ^ {T} W b\right) ^ {- 1} b ^ {T} W ^ {T} W U _ {c} \tag {27}U _ {m} ^ {*} = U _ {c} + b u _ {c} ^ {*}$$

Remark 4. A desired blended dynamics for ?? can be prescribed as the hard constraint for coupling input allocation instead of enforcing a desired synchronisation dynamics for ?? if collective behaviour shaping takes priority.
