# 2.2 Problem Statements

Consider a Second-order nonlinear N-agent $( N \in$ ℕ∗) system. The dynamics of the $i ^ { t h }$ agent $( i \in \{ 1 , 2 , \cdots$ , ????}) can be represented as follows:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} _ {i} (t) = v _ {i} (t) \\ \dot {v} _ {i} (t) = f (x _ {i}, v _ {i}) + u _ {i} (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {5}
$$

where $x _ { i } ( t ) = [ x _ { i 1 } , \ldots , x _ { i N } ] ^ { T } \in$ ℝ is the position, $v _ { i } ( t ) =$ $[ v _ { i 1 } , \dots , v _ { i N } ] \in$ ℝ is the velocity state of agents, and $f ( \xi _ { i } , t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ is a hypothetical smooth and bounded nonlinear function that is unknown, ???? $u _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ is the control input.

The desired reference signals are described by the following dynamics which is viewed as an independent virtual leader agent,

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\bar {x}} (t) = \bar {v} (t) \\ \dot {\bar {v}} (t) = h (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {6}
$$

where $\bar { \boldsymbol { x } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ is the reference position trajectory, $\bar { v } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ is reference velocity, ℎ(⋅) is a smooth bounded function that $h _ { i } ( t ) = [ h _ { i x } ( t ) , h _ { i v } ( t ) ] ^ { T }$ .

Theorem 1: The second-order leader-follower formation is achieved if the solutions of the multi-agent system satisfy the following conditions.

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l}\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \| x _ {i} (t) - \bar {x} (t) - p _ {i} \| = 0\\\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \| v _ {i} (t) - \bar {v} (t) \| = 0\end{array}\right. \tag {7}
$$

where $i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N , p _ { i } = [ p _ { i 1 } , \ldots , p _ { i N } ] ^ { T } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ is a constant vector, which describes the desired relative position between agent ???? and the leader.

Control protocol design: Define the following coordinate transformations

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} z _ {x i} (t) = x _ {i} (t) - \bar {x} (t) - p _ {i} \\ z _ {v i} (t) = v _ {i} (t) - \bar {v} (t) \end{array} \right. i = 1, 2, \dots , N \tag {8}
$$

According to (3) and (4), the following error dynamics are yielded:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {z} _ {x i} (t) = z _ {v i} (t), \\ \dot {z} _ {v i} (t) = u _ {i} + f (x _ {i}, v _ {i}) - h (t) \end{array} \right. i = 1, 2, \dots , N \tag {9}
$$

Rewrite the error dynamic (7) to the following compact form:

$$
\dot {z} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} z _ {v} (t) \\ u + F (z) - h (t) \otimes 1 _ {N} \end{array} \right] \tag {10}
$$

where $\boldsymbol { z } ( t ) = [ \boldsymbol { z } _ { x } ^ { T } ( t ) , \boldsymbol { z } _ { v } ^ { T } ( t ) ] ^ { T } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times D }$ with $z _ { x } ( t ) =$
