# B. Controller Formulation

The agent is tasked with completing as many tasks as possible while satisfying all state constraints (59), and is controlled using the hierarchical data-driven control structure outlined in Alg. 1.

The high-level controller (31) explicitly models the agent’s most recent node location and capacity state values in an event-driven fashion, updating whenever the agent reaches a new node. At event k of iteration $r ,$ the high-level state is

$$x _ {k} ^ {H, r} = (n _ {k} ^ {r}, s o c _ {k} ^ {r}, \tau_ {k} ^ {r}), \tag {60}$$

where $n _ { k } ^ { r }$ is the kth node visited by the agent during iteration r, so $\boldsymbol { \mathrm { c } } _ { k } ^ { r }$ is the agent’s state of charge when it reaches node $n _ { k } ^ { r } .$ , and $\tau _ { k } ^ { r }$ is how much time passed between the agent departing the depot and reaching node $n _ { k } ^ { r } .$ . The low-level controller (31) uses the agent model in (58).

As described in Sec. V-C, before beginning iteration $r =$ 1 we assume the availability of an initial feasible agent trajectory $\mathbf { x } ^ { 0 }$ beginning and ending at the depot, along with feasible trajectories along all edges $e _ { i , j }$ in G. These lowlevel trajectories are created for each edge $e _ { i , j }$ by solving (15), using a conservative velocity constraint $V _ { m a x } = 2$ . Note this conservative velocity constraint is enacted only during the creation of the initialization trajectories; at runtime of Alg. 1, the velocity constraint is as in (59b). The stage cost h is set as

$$
h (x, j) \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} = 0 & x \in \mathcal {N} _ {j} \\ 1 & \text { else. } \end{array} \right. \tag {61}
$$

With this stage cost (61), the low-level controller (33) mimics a minimum-time controller, planning agent trajectories that minimize the number of time steps before the reference node ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { j }$ is reached.
