Note that (17) is equivalent to (15) when $\zeta ( t ) = \zeta _ { d } ( t )$ . Since we aim to minimize the different between ζ(t) and $\zeta _ { d } ( t )$ , the the high-order term $\psi ( t ) ^ { \wedge } ( \zeta ( t ) - \zeta _ { d } ( t ) ) ^ { \wedge }$ we drop in the last approximation of (17) will tend to be small. This indicates that (17) is a better approximation to (15) than (16). We will conduct a numerical comparison of these two linearization schemes in Section IV.

Note that the operation $( \cdot ) ^ { \wedge }$ is linear. Therefore, (17) is a linearized error dynamics for the WMR. Take $( \cdot ) ^ { \vee }$ operation on both sides on (17), we have

$$\dot {\psi} (t) = \zeta (t) - \zeta_ {d} (t) + \mathrm{adm} (\zeta_ {d} (t)) \psi (t), \tag {18}$$

where adm $\left( \zeta _ { d } ( t ) \right)$ is expressed as follows

$$
\mathrm{adm} (\zeta_ {d} (t)) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & w _ {d} (t) & - v _ {y, d} (t) \\ - w _ {d} (t) & 0 & v _ {x, d} (t) \\ 0 & 0 & 0 \end{array} \right].
$$

Combining (18) with (9b), the overall linearized error dynamics of a wheeled mobile robot is

$$\dot {\psi} (t) = A (t) \psi (t) + B (t) u (t) + c (t), \tag {19}$$

where

$$A (t) := \operatorname{adm} (\zeta_ {d} (t)), \quad B (t) := C (0), \quad c (t) := - \zeta_ {d} (t).$$

Different from $( 9 ) ,$ the state and control input in (19) are in vector space. The above linearization process allows us to utilize the algebraic operations of vector space and further enables us to use existing off-the-shelf solvers to solve optimal control problems.

As we convert the problem to vector space, we can directly use the weighted Euclidean norm to penalize the state and control input. Thus, we define the cost function for tracking control as follows

$$J = \psi (t _ {f}) ^ {\top} Q _ {f} \psi (t _ {f}) + \int_ {0} ^ {t _ {f}} \psi (\tau) ^ {\top} Q \psi (\tau) + \hat {u} (\tau) ^ {\top} H \hat {u} (\tau) d \tau ,$$

where $Q _ { f } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 3 } , Q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 3 }$ and $H \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 \times 2 }$ are the final state penalty weight matrix, intermediate state penalty weight matrix, and the control penalty weight matrix, respectively. $\hat { u } ( t ) = u ( t ) - u _ { d } ( t )$ , and $u _ { d } ( t )$ is the control input of the reference trajectory.

Based on the above results on error dynamics linearization and objective function design, we have the following linear quadratic optimal control problem for trajectory tracking.

Problem 2: (Linear Quadratic Optimal Control)
