The GPL dynamic is also related to the myopic adjustment process (Neumann, 2023b) as a reduced model of an MFG with a discounted objective function. As already discussed, a common drawback of MFGs is that each game involves a pair of evolution equations that must be solved in opposite directions in time. This aspect would be an especially serious matter about the feasibility of MFGs in applications because it possibly implies a huge computational time. Focusing on a finite-state system, Neumann (2023b) proposed to reduce its MFG to a nonlinear Markov chain whose coefficients are such that an optimal strategy by the reduced model is a mean field equilibrium, to ensure that they are consistent with each other at a stationary state. Our model reduction of an MFG to a logit dynamic is theoretically different from this approach, albeit both focus on a stationary state.

Finally, we emphasize a relation of the proposed dynamic to graphon games (Parise and Ozdaglar, 2019). A graphon is a continuum limit of adjacency matrix among players. In our context, a graphon can be a function $\vartheta : \Omega \times \Omega \to \left[ 0 , + \infty \right)$ such that the connection between the pair of players  is higher for a larger 9.Through the introduction of a graphon, the logit function (7) can be extended as

$$a (x, y, \mu) = \frac {\vartheta (x , y)}{1 + e _ {\kappa} \left(\frac {U (x , \mu) - U (y , \mu)}{\eta}\right)} \text { for any } x, y \in \Omega \text { and } \mu \in \mathcal {P}. \tag {45}$$

In this way, our GPL dynamic uses a uniform graphon  (Petrov, 2023). Investigating models with a nonuniform one will be an interesting topic, which will be addressed elsewhere.

As a final remark, a limitation of the GPL dynamic compared to other evolutionary game models is that it cannot reproduce a stationary solution given by a (superposition of) Dirac’s delta, which is a pure strategy. Intuitively, this limitation is explained by the fact that under a stationary state we have $p \big ( x \big ) = \Big ( \int _ { \Omega } a \big ( x , y , \mu \big ) \mathrm { d } y \Big ) \int _ { \Omega } a \big ( z , x , \mu \big ) p \big ( z \big ) \mathrm { d } z$ , which does not represent any pure strategies. The same drawback applies to the MFG version. By contrast, replicator dynamics can reproduce stationary pure strategies (e.g., Mendoza-Palacios and Hernández-Lerma, 2015).
