# 1.2 Contributions

In this paper, we consider continuous-time linearquadratic output-regulation optimal control problems with unknown dynamics. We provide an algorithm that can be used for both finite-horizon and infinite-horizon problems. We assume that the unknown system is externally symmetric. This assumption is satisfied for all single-input-single-output (SISO) systems. External symmetry is a property of the input-output relation of the system, which is milder than state-space symmetry. Hence, it does not impose any restrictions on the matrices A and B alone in (1). Rather, a restriction is imposed when the system outputs are considered. External symmetry is inherently present in many applications even when the system models are unknown, such as mechanical systems [14], electrical circuits [13], chemical systems [27] and vehicle platoons [25]. For example, all RLCT systems i.e., networks comprising resistors (R), inductors (L), capacitors (C), and transformers (T) are symmetric. Recall that these elements have precise analogs in several other engineering fields as well, including mechanics, hydraulics, and thermodynamics [29].

The algorithm proposed in this paper uses the inputoutput data measured online to solve the optimal control problem by finding the fixed point of Pontryagin’s equations. Our algorithm can be understood as an iterative learning control (ILC) law. However, unlike the classical ILC, the proposed algorithm converges to the optimal solution of the LQR problem instead of a predefined reference trajectory. In line with the spirit of ILC methods, the proposed algorithm updates the control signal directly without assuming a specific feedback structure. This is beneficial with regards to memory usage and computational complexity since m parameters in the control input u(t) are updated rather than mn parameters in the feedback gain K(t). Moreover, the optimal feedback gain can be obtained afterward, by using the optimal control signal and n information-rich data points obtained after the learning process. Recently, ILC algorithms have been considered for solving finite-horizon optimal control problems in the literature, by appending auxiliary optimization problems to the ILC algorithms [28]. For SISO systems, our algorithm falls back to a continuoustime counterpart of the ILC algorithm in [5].

The main features of the proposed method compared with the state-of-the-art are summarized below:
