# B. Adaptive Control as Two-Agent Synchronisation

This study presents a synchronisation-oriented approach which unfolds its design process based on the perspective that adaptive control can be understood as multi-agent synchronisation. The proposed approach is motivated by the theory of blended dynamics developed in [16–20] for distributed synchronisation of multiple heterogeneous agents. For the purpose of adaptive control, this approach introduces a known virtual system $\Sigma _ { m }$ as the target for synchronisation with the given physical system $\Sigma _ { p }$ to compensate for the effects of uncertainty in $\Sigma _ { p }$ . Let us consider the virtual dynamic system given by

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {x} _ {m} (t) = A _ {m} x _ {m} (t) + b _ {m} r (t) + U _ {m} (t), \quad x _ {m} (0) = x _ {m _ {0}} \\ \Sigma_ {m}: \end{array} \tag {6}
y _ {m} (t) = c ^ {T} x _ {m} (t)$$

where $U _ { m } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the control input of the virtual system, and $\left( A _ { m } , b _ { m } \right)$ describes the desired nominal reference dynamics. The virtual system is called the explicit reference model in MRAC literature or the state predictor in $\mathcal { L } _ { 1 }$ adaptive control literature. In the viewpoint of multi-agent control, the virtual system is simply an agent participating in the network.

The general design principle of the proposed approach consists in i) quick synchronisation between the states of $\Sigma _ { p } ^ { C L }$ and $\Sigma _ { m } ,$ and ii) shaping of the collective behaviour to achieve desirable response by assembling the agents’ closed-loop dynamics. For these purposes, the synchronisation-oriented approach introduces the input signals $u _ { c } \left( t \right)$ and $U _ { m } \left( t \right)$ into the systems $\Sigma _ { p } ^ { C L }$ in Eq. (5) and $\Sigma _ { m }$ in Eq. (6), respectively.
