# 4.3 Second application

For the second application, we consider the annual Toami competition. This competition is typically held around the end of July to the beginning of August. Participants are registered in pairs and, on the competition day, compete on the total P. altivelis fish catch for two hours (typically 10:00 am to 12:00 am). All participants must use casting nets under a common regulation. The top few pairs (10% to 20% of participants) are awarded by the HRFC.

Compared to the earlier application, the problem considered here is less related to sustainable resource management but has a utility with a unique term being the award scheme employed by the HRFC. Here, we consider  as the normalized total fish catch. The utility considered in this study is that of Yoshioka et al. (2024); for any $x \in \Omega$ and $\mu \in \mathcal P$ , we set

$$U (x, \mu) = \int_ {\Omega} \left\{- B _ {1} x ^ {2} + B _ {2} | x - y | ^ {B _ {3}} \right\} \mu (\mathrm{d} y) + B _ {4} \max \left\{\alpha - \int_ {x} ^ {1} \mu (\mathrm{d} y), 0 \right\}, \tag {48}$$

where $B _ { 1 } , B _ { 2 } , B _ { 3 } , B _ { 4 } \geq 0$ and $\alpha \in \left( 0 , 1 \right)$ ). The first term of (48) is the harvesting cost, the second term the individual difference to induce a competition, and the third term the awarding scheme by the HRFC; the top  pairs are awarded. This utility was proposed heuristically in Yoshioka et al. (2024) to model the award scheme by the HRFC. We regularize the third term to obtain a Lipschitz continuous utility (Yoshioka et al., 2024):

$$\int_ {x} ^ {1} \mu (\mathrm{d} y) \rightarrow \int_ {0} ^ {1} \max \left\{0, \min \left\{1, \frac {y - x + \varepsilon}{\varepsilon} \right\}\right\} \mu (\mathrm{d} y) \text {with} 0 < \varepsilon < < 1. \tag {49}$$

So far, we did not find the inequality (44) nor its complementary one for the utility (48) and its regularized version, so the monotonicity of this utility is open. Nevertheless, due to the existence of the third term, this utility is worth investigating because it has the unique form reflecting the actual award scheme.
