# 3.3 Comparison and discussion

We consider that a key in our methodology is specifying a relevant and explicit coefficient  (i.e., (36)- (38)) in the MFG. Fortunately, we could find the explicit  for the selected values of  but not for the other values. The situation may get worse for the other logit functions not studied here. The calculation to connect the logit function and the coefficient  is very technical, and its applicability to the other evolutionary game models should be investigated in the future. Another limitation of this study is that presents a linkage between the GPL dynamic and its MFG version only heuristically. To rigorously address this issue, possibly based on stochastic calculus, one may need to start from convergence of a manyplayer model to infinite-player one as discussed in the literature for both the evolutionary and mean field game models (e.g., Bayraktar et al., 2022; Laurière and Tangpi, 2022). Our contribution does not address this issue; instead, we present some tractable cases where the coefficients of the MFG can be found explicitly. Obtaining a more theoretical connection between an MFG to a GPL dynamic is beyond the scope of this study, which is why we present some computational applications. Deeper theoretical investigations will need an effort from a purely mathematical side where the class of utility and the range of model parameters may have to be more narrowly specified. Despite these limitations, due to dealing with specific problems in detail, we believe that our methodology would be give hints and insights into deeper understanding between evolutionary and mean field game models from moth theoretical and engineering sides.

The GPL dynamic is a simpler model than the MFG version because the former has a smaller number of parameters than the latter. Analysis of stationary states can be more efficiently conducted by the GPL dynamic. By contrast, the MFG is potentially able to deal with more complicated problems where influences of foresights of players are of interest.

Guaranteeing the unique solvability of an MFG problem often requires the monotonicity. Notice that we are dealing with a maximization problem (past research (e.g., Cohen and Zell, 2023; Gomes et al., 2013) dealt with minimization problems):
