# I. INTRODUCTION

This paper explores iterative, data-driven hierarchical control for task assignment and control of an autonomous fleet of capacity-constrained agents. Hierarchical control is integral to a wide range of industrial applications for enabling complex, multi-leveled processes by breaking down decisionmaking into manageable levels. Applications include power generation and distribution [1], [2], supply chain management [3], and traffic flow coordination [4], [5], [6], [7].

A common hierarchical control framework considers a high-level controller which calculates a reference path to be tracked by a low-level controller. To ensure stability of the connected architecture, the higher level may also transmit to the lower level the maximum allowable deviation from this reference withstand without losing stability guarantees [8], [9], [10]. In [11], [12], authors formalize this concept as a “contract” between hierarchy levels: if the high-level planner takes certain restrictions (contracts) into account while path-planning (e.g. from reachability and invariance tools), the low-level controller can guarantee a bounded maximum deviation of the system state from the planned path. A variety of methods for calculating such maximum deviation bounds are proposed in [13], [14], [15].

Other works use reachability analysis to ensure feasibility of the hierarchical control architecture. Authors in [16], [17] design a two-level hierarchical Model Predictive Controller (MPC) for a linear time-invariant system in which the lowlevel MPC terminal constraint is the backward reachable

1C. Vallon and F. Borrelli are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720   
2A. Pinto is with the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA 91011   
3B. Stellato is with the Department of Operations Research and Financial Engineering, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544

set of the reference path given by the the high-level MPC, allowing the low-level controller the flexibility to improve upon the reference path. In [18], a low-level controller tracks a high-level reference path as closely as possible while remaining in an offline-determined safe set.
