The optimal control problem (8) is a nonlinear mixed integer program, and is difficult to solve without strong restrictions on $f \ ( 1 ) , \ X \ ( 6 )$ , and $\mathcal { N } _ { j } \ ( 7 )$ . In practice, problem (8) would likely not be solved as a single shot problem; the steering, braking, and acceleration of a self-driving taxi isnot be determined at the same control level or frequency of the algorithm which decides which clients to pick up first. We propose combining tools from iterative learning control and hierarchical control to obtain an approximate solution to (8). The proposed controller has two levels. A high-level controller selects a unique sequence of nodes for each agent to visit based on the current agent state (2), and a low-level controller selects continuous actuation inputs $u _ { t } \in \mathcal { U }$ for the agent to achieve the commanded task assignment.

We consider agents executing iterative tasks, where the set of tasks does not change over iterations. An “iteration” will refer to each time a set of tasks is assigned to and completed by an agent (consider a fleet of vehicles delivering packages to a subset of houses in a neighborhood each week). Given an initial feasible (sub-optimal) task assignment and corresponding low-level trajectories that satisfy the constraints in (8), we will utilize collected data to safely increase the number of tasks completed by the agents as more data is collected during subsequent iterations. Control performance improvement will come from a combination of improved high-level dynamic task assignment and improved low-level trajectory planning between tasks. In the following section, we formalize the hierarchical architecture, and propose a method for using collected data to gain performance improvements while maintaining closed-loop feasibility.

For ease of presentation, the remainder of the paper will be written in terms of a single agent. All described methods can be straightforwardly extended to multi-agent systems, as remarked in Sec. V-D.
