# A. Error-dynamic Optimal Control

Consider the error between the actual trajectory $X ( t )$ and the desired trajectory $X _ { d } ( t )$ . Taking time-derivative on both sides of (6), we have

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {d}{d t} \Psi (t) = \dot {\Psi} (t) = \frac {d}{d t} \left(X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1}\right) X (t) + X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} \frac {d}{d t} X (t) \\ = X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} \frac {d}{d t} X (t) - X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} \frac {d}{d t} \left(X _ {d} (t)\right) X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} X (t) \\ = X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} X (t) \zeta (t) ^ {\wedge} - X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} X _ {d} (t) \zeta_ {d} (t) ^ {\wedge} X _ {d} (t) ^ {- 1} X (t) \\ = \Psi (t) \zeta (t) ^ {\wedge} - \zeta_ {d} (t) ^ {\wedge} \Psi (t). \\ \end{array}
$$

Hence, we obtain the following error dynamics for a rigid body tracking a reference trajectory in the plane.

$$\dot {\Psi} (t) = \Psi (t) \zeta (t) ^ {\wedge} - \zeta_ {d} (t) ^ {\wedge} \Psi (t). \tag {7}$$

Recall that the WMR follows the kinematics model described by (4). The mapping from the control input $u ( t )$ to the local velocity ζ(t) can be obtained with C(0), i.e.,

$$\zeta (t) = C (0) u (t), \tag {8}$$

where $C ( 0 )$ is a constant matrix. Combining (7) with (8), the overall error dynamics of a WMR in $S E ( 2 )$ representation is shown as follows

$$\dot {\Psi} (t) = \Psi (t) \zeta (t) ^ {\wedge} - \zeta_ {d} (t) ^ {\wedge} \Psi (t), \tag {9a}\zeta (t) = C (0) u (t). \tag {9b}$$

(9) implies that given a reference velocity $\zeta _ { d } ,$ the map from error state Ψ and control u to the generalized velocity Ψ˙ is an injective function, and it considers both the rigid body’s manifold constraint and the WMR’s kinematic constraint simultaneously.

Based on the above result on error dynamics, we can formulate the trajectory tracking for the WMR as a continuoustime optimal control.

Problem 1: (Error-Dynamic Optimal Control)

$$\min _ {u (t)} J = \phi (\Psi (t _ {f})) + \int_ {0} ^ {t _ {f}} l (\Psi (\tau), u (\tau)) d \tau \tag {10a}$$

$\begin{array} { r l } { \mathrm { s . t . } } & { { } \dot { \Psi } ( t ) = \Psi ( t ) \zeta ( t ) ^ { \wedge } - \zeta _ { d } ( t ) ^ { \wedge } \Psi ( t ) , } \end{array}$ (10b)

$$\zeta (t) = C (0) u (t), \tag {10c}\underline {{{u}}} \leq u (t) \leq \overline {{{u}}}, \tag {10d}\Psi (0) = \Psi_ {\text { init }}, \tag {10e}0 \leq t \leq t _ {f}, \tag {10f}$$
