to a least-squares fitting. No plant model is needed. Passivity is enforced through constrained optimization. The novelty of the paper is in endowing virtual reference feedback tuning with additional constraints for passivity. These are based on the Kalman-Yakubovich-Popov (KYP) lemma, on the Toeplitz operator of the iFIR controller, and on the positive realness of its transfer function. The result is a design approach based on convex constrained optimization, that can be solved with standard tools, such as CVX [11]–[13]. In what follows, we show that passivity constraints based on Toeplitz and positive realness formulations scale better with the size of the filter, strongly improving the complexity of the KYP lemma.

For passive plants, passive iFIR control design separates closed-loop stability and closed-loop performance. Data scarcity and low-quality data do not affect the stability of the closed loop, which is structurally guaranteed via passivity. The quality and quantity of data matter for the performance, to achieve good matching with the desired reference model. This separation between stability and performance is novel. To guarantee stability, other data-driven approaches require the probing signal to be persistently exciting [4] or informative [14], or provide asymptotic guarantees in the limit of infinite data length [5], [7], [15].

The idea of enforcing passivity combined with a data-driven approximation is inspired by the kernel approach to nonlinear modeling offered by [16]. There, passivity is achieved through regularization and the scattering transform. We achieve it through constrained optimization, in the narrower setting of iFIR architectures. Passive filter design has been also explored in [17] and [18]. These approaches show strong similarities with our formulation. Our contribution is in the combination with VRFT for control design purposes (Theorems 3.1, 3.3, and 3.4), in the formulation based on Toeplitz matrices (Theorems 3.2 and 3.3), and in the characterization of exact bounds on (sampled) frequency-based constraints (Theorem 3.4), which lead to a non-iterative design.

The paper is structured as follows. The iFIR control design based on VRFT is illustrated in Section 2. Passivity constraints are extensively discussed in Section 3. Section 4 provides an example of closed-loop control with linear and nonlinear plants. The conclusions follow.
