By invoking the inverse control approach to design the objective function from the control (Komaee, 2021), we heuristically obtain the objective function to be employed in the MFG under the assumption that the transition rate of players’ actions is the optimal control. In this way, we can explicitly connect the logit dynamic with the MFG. Furthermore, we obtain the objective function of the MFG leading to the GPL dynamic. We characterize the logit function as the optimal control, a random field in our case, in the MFG. Then, we show that there is a situation where the GPL dynamic is uniquely solvable, while the

MFG counterpart may not, when the utility does not satisfy monotonicity (Cecchin et al., 2019; Gomes et al., 2013). This monotonicity is not necessary in the GPL dynamic, which can therefore be formulated under a wider condition. We finally apply the two approaches to fishery management problems in Japan. Consequently, we contribute to the theory and analysis of an evolutionary game model and its MFG counterpart, their computation, and application.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the GPL dynamic and its analysis. Section 3 considers an MFG related to the GPL dynamic. Section 4 is devoted to an application of the two approaches to resource management problems. Section 5 concludes this study and presents its future perspectives. Appendix A has technical proofs of Propositions in the main text, and Appendices B and C have auxiliary survey and computational results.
