# 5. Conclusion

We proposed a GPL dynamic based on the κ-exponential function. The GPL dynamic itself is a novel dynamic, and its analysis is therefore our contribution in this study. The existence of unique solutions and approximation of the dynamic were studied. We then presented an MFG related to the GPL dynamic and discussed how the dynamic arises as a myopic version of the MFG. This version was regarded as a type of model predictive control problem. More specifically, the utility maximization encoded in the GPL dynamic was understood through a costly maximization problem where the profile of the cost determines that of the logit function. The relation of the logit dynamic to other existing approaches was also discussed. Finally, applications of the GPL dynamic and MFG to fisheries management were examined.

We focused on the pure-jump setting, although there are various applications where more generic noise processes play roles (Aurell et al., 2022; Frihi et al., 2022). The applicability and limitation of the proposed framework will then be examined. The monotonicity of the utility in our second computational example is still open, which will be addressed in the future possibly under a more generalized formulation. One can employ an approach inverse to ours, such that the logit function is designed from the objective function of an MFG if it is available from data. There will be different connections between a logit dynamic and an ${ \mathrm { M F G } } ,$ as recently found in the context of risk-sensitive optimization (Salhab et al., 2020). Exploring such a new connection would deepen both theoretical and engineering aspects of the evolutionary game and related research fields. Incorporating model uncertainty into the logit dynamic can be addressed based on the linkage between the evolutionary and MFGs. The other game dynamics, such as the gradient and replicator ones (Rabanal, 2017), will be examined to better understand relations between evolutionary and mean field games. Accounting for ecological dynamics (Hackney et al., 2021; Stein et al., 2023) will also be a possible next step.
