# I. INTRODUCTION

F ROM simple prototyping to advanced control applica-tions, a PID controller goes a long way due to its simple tions, a PID controller goes a long way due to its simple structure, intuitive tuning, and the presence of integral action for perfect regulation. In addition, with passive plants, PID control leads to inherently stable closed loops, even when the plant is uncertain and its model is approximated. This makes PID control one of the most common control techniques in industry [1]–[3].

In many control applications, a stabilizing feedback action must also satisfy complex performance requirements. These are often specified as desired input/output behaviors, in the form of a set of data or a desired transfer function. In this setting, the PID control shows limitations [4], [5]. Ideally, we want a controller that retains the simplicity of PID control and its fundamental properties, namely integral action and passivity, but is more flexible.

In this paper, we investigate the design of iFIR controllers, which combine the parallel action of a finite impulse response filter (FIR) and an integrator for perfect regulation. Similar formulations, also based on cascade interconnections, can be found in [6]–[9]. The idea is to replace the proportional and derivative action of the PID controller with the richer action of a FIR filter. We retain the integrator for perfect regulation. We also restrict the FIR filter to be passive, to guarantee wide applicability in the control of electro-mechanical systems and robotics [1]–[3]. With these features, our hypothesis is that iFIR controllers provide a more flexible alternative to PID control, when combined with data-driven optimal tuning.

We propose a model-free data-driven design approach based on virtual reference feedback tuning (VRFT) [10], which reduces the matching problem with a target reference model

\*The work of Zixing Wang was supported by CSC Cambridge Scholarship. The work of Yongkang Huo was supported by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) grant 10671447. a Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, CB2 1PZ Cambridge, U.K. {zxw20@.cam.ac.uk, yh415@cam.ac.uk, f.forni@eng.cam.ac.uk}.
