With this background, the theory of closed-loop/observer-like reference model has been developed for adaptive control architectures [4–8] and showed performance benefits in applications [9, 10]. Central to the closed-loop reference model concept is the addition of a tracking error feedback term that resembles the innovation term in a Luenberger observer to the reference model. As a result, the reference model evolves with feedback interaction unlike the fixed open-loop reference model. The key insight is to give distinction between the time constants of the tracking error dynamics and the desired reference model dynamics so that the transients of the former decay more quickly than the latter. Similar understanding was also considered important for the loop shaping via design of the state predictor in $\mathcal { L } _ { 1 }$ adaptive control architecture (see Remark 2.1.1 and Sec. 2.1.6 of [2]).

However, the CRM-MRAC method requires careful choice of its design parameters to obtain the expected improvements in transient performance. A bad choice of the combination of learning rate and observer gain may result in significantly degraded performance, e.g., in terms of the input rate. The method with a fixed observer gain is known to suffer from water-bed effects in that using a small observer gain leads to insufficient time-scale separation that may cause high-frequency oscillation while using a large observer gain leads to slow dynamics. This tradeoff between improved transient performance and improved converge rate of parameters poses a major challenge in the design and implementation of the CRM-MRAC systems. In [11], a policy for variable observer gain was trained by using reinforcement learning to increase the observer gain in the initial phase of the adaptation process for improved transient performance and to decrease the observer gain later for faster system response. Nonetheless, the tuning difficulty is not completely resolved, raising the necessity to revisit the problem.
