where $( c _ { t ^ { \star \star } + N | t ^ { \star \star } } ^ { r , \star } , \chi _ { t ^ { \star \star } + N | t ^ { \star \star } } ^ { r , \star } ) \in \mathcal N _ { j }$ and the it concluded. Therefore $\mathcal { T } ( \dot { \mathbf { x } } ^ { r } , i , j ) = [ t 0 , t f ]$ , where $t f = t ^ { \star \star } +$ N . From (39), we conclude that for any successive iterations r − 1 and r, we have

$$c _ {t f} ^ {r} - c _ {t 0} ^ {r} \leq c _ {\mathcal {I} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r - 1}, i, j, - 1)} ^ {r - 1} - c _ {\mathcal {I} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r - 1}, i, j, 0)} ^ {r - 1}$$

and therefore

$$\Omega_ {l} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r}, i, j) \leq \Omega_ {l} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r - 1}, i, j). \tag {40}$$

We have shown that at iteration $r \geq 1$ of a system (1) controlled by the low-level policy (33), (33) iteratively traversing a single edge $e _ { i , j }$ , the capacity states drain no more than at iteration (r − 1).

It follows from Thm. 1 that for $\hat { \theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r }$ calculated according to (21), we have ˆθr+1 $\hat { \theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r + 1 } \le \hat { \theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r }$ for all iterations $r \geq 1$ , and similarly, Θˆ r+1i,j $\hat { \Theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r + 1 } \subseteq \hat { \Theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r }$ for all iterations $r \geq 1$ . Furthermore, $\hat { \theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r }$ calculated according to (21) represents a worst-case capacity state depletion for an agent (1) in closed-loop with the low-level policy (33), (34) along each edge $e _ { i , j }$ for all iterations beyond r. Therefore, using $\widehat { \theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r }$ at iteration r ensures that the high-level policy (31) plans robustly against all $\theta \in \hat { \Theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r }$ updated according to (22). This is stated formally in Thm. 2.

Theorem 2 (Iterative Feasibility): Consider a system (1) in closed-loop with the hierarchical controller outlined in Alg. 1, where $\bar { \boldsymbol { \pi } } ^ { H , r }$ is as in (31) and $\pi ^ { L , r }$ as in (33). Let $S _ { i , j } ^ { L , r }$ be the safe set corresponding to each edge $e _ { i , j }$ as defined in (25), and ${ \mathcal { S } } ^ { H , r }$ be the safe set as defined in (23). Then, the hierarchical controller outlined in Alg. 1 will be iteratively feasible as outlined in Def. 1 from the initial state $x _ { 0 } ^ { r } = x _ { S }$ for all iterations $r \geq 1$ .

Proof: At event $k = 0$ (occurring at time t = 0) of iteration r, the agent is located in the depot, with

$$x _ {0} ^ {r} = x _ {S} = \left(\mathbf {0} _ {L}, \bar {\chi} _ {D}\right)x _ {0} ^ {H, r} = (D, \mathbf {0} _ {L}).$$
