# 1.2 Objective and contribution

The objectives of this study are to formulate and study a new evolutionary game model, to find its MFG counterpart, and to compare them theoretically and numerically through applications. Our contributions to achieve these objectives are explained as follows.

The evolution equation that we focus on is a pair-wise logit model (e.g., Aiba, 2015; Sandholm and Staudigl, 2018; Leon et al., 2023) extended to a continuous action space (e.g., Lahkar and Riedel, 2015). Particularly, we define a generalized logit function, i.e., the softmax function for the decision-making in noisy environments, using a κ-exponential function (e.g., Kaniadakis et al., 2020) instead of an exponential one. The κ-exponential function reduces to an exponential one in a limit case, and hence generalizes the classical pair-wise logit model. The generalization here implies considering a wider range of uncertainties in the decision-making of players. Note that seeking for generic logit functions, more specifically sigmoidal activation functions, is also important in machine learning (Apicella et al., 2021; Dombi and Jónás, 2022). Moreover, the evolutionary game theory for machine learning has recently been a popular research topic, to which this study may contribute (Barreiro-Gomez and Poveda, 2023).

We refer to this new logit dynamic as the generalized pair-wise logit (GPL) dynamic. The existence of a unique solution to this dynamic is proven under a Lipschitz continuity condition of the utility. The κ-exponential function, particularly its continuity with respect to the shape parameter κ, yields the parameter continuity of the solution to the dynamic, showing that GPL dynamic continuously reduces to a classical one. We also present a finite difference method to discretize the dynamic (Keliger et al, 2022; Lahkar et al., 2023; Mendoza-Palacios and Hernández-Lerma, 2020).
