# 5 Extension to infinite-horizon problems and state feedback

In this section, we use the developed technique to solve the problem (13) when its horizon length is infinite and derive the optimal state feedback gain. By letting $D = 0$ and $Q _ { x } = { \overrightarrow { C } } ^ { \prime } Q C$ , the output regulation problem (13) is set in the standard form of an LQR problem (1). As we focus on infinite-horizon problems in this section, we also make the following assumption which ensures a stabilizing control law exists and the optimal value is finite in (1).

Assumption 4. The pair (A, B) is stabilizable and $( A , { \sqrt { Q _ { x } } } )$ is detectable.

It is well known that when $t _ { f } \to \infty$ and Assumption 4 is satisfied, the solution to (1) is given by [21, §3.4]

$$0 = A ^ {\prime} P _ {\infty} + P _ {\infty} A - P _ {\infty} B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {\prime} P _ {\infty} + Q _ {x}, \tag {45}K _ {\infty} = R ^ {- 1} B ^ {\prime} P _ {\infty}, \tag {46}u _ {\infty} ^ {\star} (t) = - K _ {\infty} x (t), \tag {47}$$

where $P _ { \infty }$ is the unique positive definite solution to (45). Solving the above equations requires knowing the system model. In contrast, Algorithm 1 can be used to obtain the optimal gain $K _ { \infty }$ in (47) in a model-free fashion. This is realized by first using Algorithm 1 to obtain the optimal open-loop control signal. Then this input signal is applied to the system and a few data points are collected from the optimal state trajectory. These data points are then used to obtain the optimal state feedback gain $K _ { \infty }$ . For the measured data points to be reliable for this process, we need a uniform convergence in

Algorithm 1. Hence, ∞-norm is used instead of 2-norm in this section.

Lemma 3. Let Assumption 1 hold and $u _ { 0 } \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { m } ( 0 , t _ { f } )$ . Then lim $1 _ { k  + \infty } \| u _ { k } - \bar { u ^ { \star } } \| _ { \infty , t _ { f } } = 0$ holds in Algorithm 1 for all $\alpha \in ( 0 , 1 ] , i f$

$$\| Q \| _ {\infty} \| G \| _ {\mathrm{pk}} ^ {2} \| R ^ {- 1} \| _ {\infty} < 1. \tag {48}$$

Proof. From (30) one can write
