# C. Hierarchical LMPC Architecture

The high-level and and low-level LMPC policies (31) and (33) are assembled into a hierarchical control architecture as described in Alg. 1. Before beginning iteration $r = 1$ , we assume the availability of a dataset containing:

1) First, an initial, feasible agent trajectory $\mathbf { x } ^ { 0 }$ beginning and ending at the depot. This trajectory is sub-optimal with respect to (8); it may have been possible for the agent to complete more tasks while satisfying capacity constraints. The trajectory $\mathbf { x } ^ { 0 }$ is used to initialize the high-level safe set $\check { S } ^ { H , 1 }$ 1 as well as the initial parameter estimates $\hat { \theta } ^ { 1 }$ and $\hat { \Theta } ^ { 1 }$ .   
2) Second, a set of feasible agent trajectories along each edge $e _ { i , j }$ in $G ,$ , beginning in ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { i }$ and ending in ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { j }$ . Each of these trajectories satisfies the constraints in (15), but they may be sub-optimal with respect to (15). These trajectories are used to initialize the low-level safe sets $\boldsymbol { \mathcal { S } _ { i , j } ^ { \tilde { L } , 1 } }$ for each edge.

These initial datasets may contain feasible trajectories corresponding to very conservative controllers.

As more data is collected with further iterations, the terminal constraints and terminal costs used in $\pi ^ { H }$ and $\pi ^ { L }$ are updated to reflect improved estimates of the agent’s capacity usage during task execution. Control performance improvement of the hierarchical control architecture comes from two separate but coordinated phenomena. First, lowlevel performance improvements result in new edge trajectories that minimize control cost with respect to (16) while reducing capacity consumption. When trajectories are discovered along an edge that reduce capacity consumption, the model estimate $\hat { \theta }$ improves, and the high-level model uncertainty bound shrinks. Second, the high-level controller utilizes these improved bounds to plan more productive highlevel routes on the graph G. As a result, control performance is improved both separately at the low-level and high-level, and jointly with respect to (20).

The proposed architecture represents a novel, computationally efficient approach for combining tools from hierarchical control and data-driven iterative learning control to dynamically assign tasks and plan routes in a way that ensures constraint satisfaction despite using short-horizon predictions. Next, we prove that the high-level and and low-level LMPC policies (31) and (33) assembled into a hierarchical control architecture as described in Alg. 1 and updated according to (21), (23), (25) satisfy the properties of iterative feasibility and iterative performance improvement.
