# I. INTRODUCTION

Model predictive control (MPC) is an optimal control scheme that has gained popularity due to its flexibility in handling constrained nonlinear systems in a wide variety of settings. MPC computes the optimal control action by solving an optimization problem on a forecast of the system over a limited horizon [1]. This optimization problem takes the current state of the system as an initial condition and can include arbitrary system dynamics and state constraints. In its implicit form, this optimization problem is solved online in real time at each control interval. This has traditionally limited the application of MPC to either small systems, simplified models, or systems with long control intervals due to the time required to solve the MPC problem.

The MPC optimization problem for linear time-invariant systems subject to affine constraints and a quadratic cost function takes the form of a quadratic program. This allows for the solution set, which can be represented as a piecewise-affine (PWA) function, to be computed offline using multi-parametric programming and applied to the system—a paradigm known as explicit MPC. Although this moves much of the heavy computation offline, the number of regions in the PWA control law grows exponentially with the dimension of the system and the prediction horizon [2]. Therefore, there can still be significant memory requirements and computational costs associated.

Current work on overcoming the limitations of explicit MPC can be roughly grouped into two categories. The first

The authors are with the Department of Computing, Imperial College London, UK. Email: p.sosnin23@imperial.ac.uk, c.tsay@imperial.ac.uk

is reducing the computational and memory requirements through more efficient representations of the PWA controller [3]. The second is approximate explicit MPC schemes, which can reduce the memory and computational requirements at the cost of a sub-optimal control scheme [4]. Deep neural networks (NNs) are particularly promising as explicit control laws, as they allow for a large number of PWA regions to be represented with relatively few parameters. NNs come with a large offline training cost, but the inference cost and memory requirements are low, allowing them to be deployed even on embedded systems [5].
