# B. Low-level controller

The goal of the low-level controller at each iteration r is to select actuation inputs that execute the task assigned by the high-level controller. We consider such a task to consist of reaching the next node assigned by the high-level controller, denoted $n _ { k + 1 | k } ^ { r \star }$ . The low-level controller uses the time-based agent model as in (1), where the state of the agent at time step t is denoted as $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , subject to discrete-time dynamics

$$x _ {t + 1} = f (x _ {t}, u _ {t}), \tag {14}$$

where $u _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { u }$ is the input applied at time step t. The lowlevel states and inputs are constrained as $x _ { t } \in \mathcal { X }$ and $u _ { t } \in \mathcal { U }$ (as in (1)). At time step t of iteration r while moving from node $n _ { k } ^ { r }$ to node $n _ { k + 1 | k } ^ { r \star } ,$ the low-level controller’s objective is to find an input sequence satisfying

$$u ^ {\star} (x _ {t} ^ {r}, n _ {k} ^ {r}, n _ {k + 1 | k} ^ {r \star}) =\underset {u, T} {\arg \min} \quad \sum_ {\tau = t} ^ {T} h (x _ {\tau | t}, n _ {k + 1 | k} ^ {r \star}) \tag {15}\text { s.t. } x _ {\tau + 1 | t} = f (x _ {\tau | t}, u _ {\tau | t})x _ {\tau | t} \in \mathcal {X} \quad \forall \tau \in [ t, t + T ]u _ {\tau | t} \in \mathcal {U} \quad \forall \tau \in [ t, t + T - 1 ]x _ {t | t} = x _ {t} ^ {r}x _ {t + T | t} \in \mathcal {N} _ {n _ {k + 1 | k} ^ {r \star}}u _ {t} ^ {r} = u _ {t | t} ^ {\star}$$

which searches for a low-level input sequence that minimizes an objective function $h ( x , j )$ over the duration of the task and drives the agent to the reference node indicated by the high-level controller. The objective function has the property

$$
h (x, j) \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} = 0 & x \in \mathcal {N} _ {j} \\ \geq 0 & \text { else. } \end{array} \right. \tag {16}
$$

We propose approximating the solution to (15) with a datadriven MPC policy

$$\pi^ {L, r} (x _ {t} ^ {r}, n _ {k} ^ {r}, n _ {k + 1 | k} ^ {r \star}): \mathcal {S} ^ {L, r} \to \mathbb {R} ^ {u} \tag {17}$$

which, at iteration r, maps an agent state in a set $S ^ { L , r }$ to an input. The closed-loop system under this policy is

$$u _ {t} ^ {L, r} = \pi^ {L, r} (x _ {t} ^ {r, c l}, n _ {k} ^ {r}, n _ {k + 1 | k} ^ {r \star}) \tag {18a}x _ {t + 1} ^ {r, c l} = f (x _ {t} ^ {r, c l}, u _ {t} ^ {L, r}). \tag {18b}$$

Given initial closed-loop low-level trajectories (18) corresponding to very conservative control performance, our aim is to first estimate $\pi ^ { L , 1 }$ and ${ \mathcal { S } } ^ { L , 1 }$ , and then use additional data collected during each task iteration r to update $\pi ^ { L , r + 1 }$ and ${ \mathcal { S } } ^ { L , r + 1 }$ to improve control performance with each iteration while maintaining feasibility. This will be detailed in Sec. V.
