This study aims to develop a general design approach which can overcome the shortcomings of the existing CRM-MRAC method. The key insight is that the MRAC architecture with a reference model interacting with the plant via feedback connection is conceptually similar to the consensus methods for multi-agent synchronisation. Adaptation based on closed-loop reference model can be formalised as synchronisation between the physical plant and the virtual dynamic system. Motivated by this connection, the main objective is to develop a constructive design approach for adaptive control based on synchronisation with a virtual dynamics playing the role of a closed-loop reference model.

Synchronisation of multiple agents has been studied to realise distributed autonomous systems. Consensus strategies lay the foundation for distributed computational tasks such as formation control, optimisation, and information fusion [12–15]. Specifically, recent studies on practical synchronisation of heterogeneous multiple agent system showed that the collective behaviour approximately follows the average of individual dynamics, i.e., the blended dynamics, under sufficiently strong diffusive coupling if the blended dynamics is stable [16–18]. This theoretical finding has led to the establishment of a concrete design methodology that first designs the blended dynamics and then assigns each agent to the individual dynamics [19, 20].

This study presents a synchronisation-oriented design approach for adaptive control by taking insights from the blended dynamics approach. The blended dynamics approach highlights the importance of time-scale separation in achieving synchronisation and generation of desired collective behaviours. Similarly, this study emphasises the two time-scale nature of adaptive control problem which involves synchronisation of two agents. The proposed approach is to design the coupling input first and allocate it to the input variables of plant and virtual dynamics. To clearly explain the main concept, this study considers a linear system with matched uncertainty.
