Theorem 3.4 follows closely [17, Section III.B] and [18, Section 2] but guarantees passivity with a finite length of training data and a finite number of constraints in the context of data-driven control design. Compared with Theorem 3.3, Theorem 3.4 leads to a one-shot design approach. The theorem illustrates that passivity can be enforced by constraining the sampled frequency response of the FIR to be larger than a certain constant ϵ, which depends on the decay rate of the impulse response, the order of the FIR part, and the number of sampling points in the frequency domain. This is equivalent to verifying that the sampled Nyquist diagram of the FIR subcontroller has a real part greater than ϵ. In this case, ϵ bounds the maximal variation of the real part of the Nyquist diagram between each two samples.

From the proof of Theorem 3.4, it can be seen that the bound (14e) on ϵ is conservative. Conservativeness is reduced by increasing the number of samples M , that is, by enforcing a larger number of constraints. The trade-off between the computational complexity and conservativeness can be mitigated by replacing the bound (14e) with an heuristic search over ϵ, based on an iteration similar to the one derived from Theorem 3.3. In terms of complexity, Theorem 3.4 is more efficient than Theorems 3.1 and 3.3 since there are no LMIs involved. Furthermore, (14d) can be implemented with M + 1 linear inequality constraints of the form (15), for $\textstyle \theta = { \frac { q \pi } { M } }$ and $q \in \{ 0 , \ldots , M \}$ .

Remark 3.5: The constrained optimization (2) subject to passivity constraints is always feasible. For instance, for any $\epsilon ^ { * } \in \mathbb { R }$ and $\gamma \geq 0$ , consider the iFIR controller in (1) given by $g _ { 0 } \geq \epsilon ^ { * }$ and $g _ { k } = 0 , \forall k > 0 . { \mathrm { I f } } \epsilon ^ { * } \geq 0 ,$ , this iFIR controller is compatible with (7). If $\epsilon ^ { * }$ is larger than the ϵ chosen in (10) or (14e), then this iFIR controller is compatible with (10) or (14), respectively.

Remark 3.6: The phase correction that a passive linear controller can introduce is limited to ±90 degrees. This poses a limit on the achievable performance. The level of conservativeness depends on the performance requirement, based on the selected reference model $M _ { r }$ .
