# D. Multi-Agent Formulation

For the sake of notational simplicity, the hierarchical LMPC architecture has been presented for a single agent. However, the method can be straightforwardly applied to fleets of M agents with slight modifications to the formulation of the high-level LMPC (31). In the multi-agent case, a centralized high-level LMPC (31) plans M routes, each of length N, for M agents. Then, M decentralized LMPCs in the form of (33) will guide each agent to their assigned reference nodes.

The multi-agent high-level state of the system will concatenate the M nodes and capacity states of the agents. Therefore, each point in the high-level safe set $\mathbf { \mathcal { S } } ^ { H , \bar { r } }$ will consist of M nodes and capacity state values the agents have simultaneously held at a previous iteration.

The formulation in (31) must be adapted accordingly to plan M satisfactory paths. Specifically, constraints (26a), (26b) are changed to plan M routes, each beginning at the current node and capacity level of an agent $m \in M$ . Additionally, the terminal constraints (30) must be changed to enforce that the M planned paths jointly end in nodes and capacity state values in the higher-dimension safe set ${ \mathcal { S } } ^ { H , r }$ .

All properties proven for Alg. 1 in Sec. V-E hold in the multi-agent case.

Remark 5: If all M agents have the same dynamics (1), the low-level safe sets $\bar { \mathcal { S } } ^ { L }$ and capacity depletion estimate $\hat { \theta }$ can be shared amongst agents. If agents have different dynamics, the methods outlined here can still be applied, but low-level safe sets and capacity depletion estimates will need to be specific for each agent. For example, at the beginning of iteration r, the set Si,j $S _ { i , j } ^ { L , r , m }$ will contain the trajectory most recently completthe cost estimate agent m along edge will contain the smal $e _ { i , j }$ . Similarly, amount the $\hat { \theta } _ { i , j , l } ^ { r , \bar { m } }$ capacity state depleted when agent m traversed the edge $e _ { i , j }$ during a previous iteration.
