To address the trajectory tracking problem, numerous control schemes have been proposed in the existing literature. Time-varying nonlinear state-feedback controllers have been proposed in [4]–[6], and dynamic linear feedback controllers can be found in [7]–[9]. Recently, studies on WMR trajectory tracking with model predictive control (MPC) have appeared. The predictive nature of MPC allows for real-time adaptation and adjustment, making it particularly suitable for dynamic and uncertain environments. The rapid development of computation power benefits the wide dissemination of MPCbased methods [10]–[14]. While MPC has shown promising results in modern robotics, a fundamental difficulty lies in effectively incorporating the manifold constraint of the robot configuration into the MPC framework. The configuration of WMR naturally lies in the continuous transformation group (Lie group) that does not comply with algebraic operations in a vector space [15]. For example, the superposition principle does not hold in the matrix Lie group. Hence, theoretical results developed for MPC in vector space cannot be directly extended to the one in the Lie group. Moreover, when handling the orientation, the singularity issue of the Euler angle and the double-cover issue of the quaternion introduce additional challenges for robotic control and optimization [16].

The major challenge of Lie group MPC comes from the differential geometry calculus. To deal with the manifold constraints, Jackson et.al. [16] developed a modified Newton method for the quaternion, and Alcan et.al. [17] developed a modified differential dynamic programming for the matrix Lie group. Besides, Lu et.al. [18] developed on-manifold MPC for trajectory tracking. These methods rely on concepts from differential geometry to derive complex derivative calculations and some need to be implemented in customized optimization solvers. Beyond that, many recent works on mobile
