for all $n \geq n ^ { * }$ . Thus, for any given $n \geq n ^ { * }$ , (10d) guarantees lim $\cdot k \to \infty \underline { { \sigma } } \big ( \phi _ { k } ^ { T } ( g ) + \phi _ { k } ( g ) \big ) \ \geq \ 0$ . This implies that the FIR part of the iFIR controller is passive.

ρ0, and $\rho$ are not strictly needed for the proof of the theorem. However, these user-defined parameters determine the decay rate of the FIR coefficients, and can be used to reduce the Gibbs phenomenon due to sharp truncation of the impulse response of the FIR part of the controller. (10d) is a relaxation of (9b) based on a finite constraint plus an additional bound ϵ. The latter reduces as n increases (and vice versa). Numerical tests show that, for large n, the Nyquist diagram of a FIR filter that satisfies $\phi _ { n } ( g ) ^ { T } + \phi _ { n } ( g ) \geq 0$ has a large portion of its locus on the right-half of the complex plane. To have the locus completely within the right-half plane, we can ‘shift’ the whole Nyquist diagram right using strictly input passivity, [23]. This is equivalent to taking $\phi _ { n } ( g ) ^ { T } + \phi _ { n } ( g ) \geq \epsilon I$ .

Theorem 3.3 provides a computationally tractable optimization problem. A passive iFIR can be obtained by solving the optimization iteratively, for increasing values of n: (i) we select $\rho _ { 0 } , \rho$ and ϵ and solve the optimization problem for a given $n ~ \geq ~ m ; ~ ( \mathrm { i i } )$ we test passivity of the iFIR (from the Nyquist plot or using any other test); (iii) in case of shortage of passivity, we select a larger n (and possibly a larger ϵ) and iterate.

Compared with the KYP approach of Theorem 3.1, the finite Toeplitz approach of Theorem 3.2 leads to an optimization problem with $o ( m )$ unknowns, linear in the order m of the iFIR filter. However, for a fixed ϵ (or n), the value of n (or ϵ) that leads to passivity is bounded by some finite but unknown $n ^ { * }$ (by some finite $\epsilon ^ { * } )$ , thus needs to be tuned iteratively. The following theorem overcomes this limitation. Given the coefficients $g = g _ { k }$ , in what follows we use $G ( e ^ { j \theta } )$ to denote its frequency respons e Pm−1k=0 gke−jkθ. $\scriptstyle \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { m - 1 } g _ { k } e ^ { - j k \theta }$

Theorem 3.4 (Positive realness approach): Given the iFIR (1) of order m, let $g = \{ g _ { k } \} _ { k = 0 , \ldots , m - 1 }$ be the finite coefficients of its FIR part. For any $\rho _ { 0 } > 0 , 0 < \rho \leq 1 , M \geq 2$ the iFIR controller by (2) and
