# B. Dynamics Predictor

Given the initial actions generated by MAPPO and known system states, we use a deep learning-based MPC to predict the future states. We are currently at some timestep t, using the known system state $s ^ { t }$ and actions at as inputs. And our goal is then to predict the future system states ${ \hat { s } } ^ { t + 1 : t + T }$ up to time-horizon T by applying our model $\hat { s } ^ { t + 1 } = f ( s ^ { t } , \mathbf { a } ^ { t } )$ recurrently.

During the training, we use an offline scheme to learn the set of parameters η. We gather extensive operational data states $s ^ { t }$ , actions $\mathbf { a } ^ { t }$ and next states $s ^ { t + 1 }$ from the environment, which is subsequently buffered. Then we leverage $s ^ { t + 1 }$ as the ground truth and minimize the error between the ground truth and generated next states $\hat { s } ^ { t + 1 }$ . For the optimization objective, we utilize the Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss as follows:

$$\text { MSE Loss } = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} (\hat {s} ^ {t + 1} - s ^ {t + 1}) ^ {2}. \tag {7}$$

By leveraging historical data, we construct a dataset that accurately captures the transitions between states under a range of action conditions. This dataset enables a neural network to learn the temporal dynamics governing the evolution of states within the environment. To ascertain the robustness of the MPC’s predictor, we provide a straightforward proof and demonstrate the prediction error through experimental results.

In the robustness analysis, our primary objective is to prove that the training error of the proposed method diminishes progressively over time. The training error is denoted by $e ^ { t } = \hat { s } ^ { t } - s ^ { t }$ , and we redefine the equation (2) as follows:

$$f _ {1} (s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t}) = \sigma (\eta^ {*} (s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t})), \tag {8}f _ {2} (s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t}) = \boldsymbol {\sigma} (\eta (s ^ {t}, \mathbf {a} ^ {t})). \tag {9}$$

Here, $f _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ and $f _ { 2 } ( \cdot )$ are the same functions in (2), $\eta ^ { * }$ denotes the optimal predictor neural network weights, while η represents the actual predictor weights during training, and $\sigma ( \cdot )$ represents the activation function which means the outputs of $f _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ and $f _ { 2 } ( \cdot )$ are bounded.

Assumption 1: The training samples and the neural network’s weights η are bounded, and there exists a set of optimal weights $\eta ^ { * }$ .

Lemma $4 . l \cdot$ If the conditions of Assumption 1 hold, we have:
