$$z _ {n} ^ {T} w _ {n} = w _ {n} ^ {T} \phi_ {n} (g) ^ {T} w _ {n} = w _ {n} ^ {T} \left(\frac {\phi_ {n} (g) ^ {T} + \phi_ {n} (g)}{2}\right) w _ {n}.$$

Therefore, saying that $z _ { n } ^ { T } w _ { n } \ge 0$ for all inputs $w _ { n }$ (and related outputs $z _ { n } )$ is equivalent to the matrix inequality

$$\phi_ {n} (g) ^ {T} + \phi_ {n} (g) \geq 0.$$

Thus, for $n  \infty , ( 9 \mathrm { b } )$ is equivalent to $z _ { \infty } ^ { T } w _ { \infty } \ge 0$

The main issue of Theorem 3.2 is that (9) is not computationally tractable. This motivates the following relaxation.

Theorem 3.3 (Finite Toeplitz approach): Given the iFIR (1) of order m, let $g = \{ g _ { k } \} _ { k = 0 , \ldots , m - 1 }$ be the finite coefficients of its FIR part. For any $\epsilon > 0 , \rho _ { 0 } > 0 , 0 < \rho \le 1$ , there exists $n ^ { * } \geq m$ such that, for all $n \geq n ^ { * }$ , the iFIR controller given by (2) and

$$\gamma \geq 0 \tag {10a}\rho_ {0} \geq | g _ {0} | \tag {10b}\rho_ {0} \rho^ {k} \geq | g _ {k} | \quad \forall k \in \{1,..., m - 1 \} \tag {10c}\phi_ {n} ^ {T} (g) + \phi_ {n} (g) \geq \epsilon I _ {n} \tag {10d}$$

is passive.

Proof: We show that the FIR part of the controller is passive. For $n  \infty ,$ the matrix $\phi _ { n } ( g ) ^ { T } + \phi _ { n } ( g )$ is a $( m -$ 1) − banded symmetric infinite dimensional Toeplitz matrix, [22, Thm. 2.1], [21, p. 37]. Hence, as shown in [21, Eq. 4.5] and [22, p. 322], there exists an associated generating function f given by

$$f (\omega) = g _ {0} + \sum_ {k = - m + 1} ^ {m - 1} g _ {k} e ^ {j 2 \pi k \omega} \tag {11}$$

where ω $\in [ - \frac { 1 } { 2 } , \frac { 1 } { 2 } ) . \ \{ g _ { k } \} _ { k = - \infty , \ldots , \infty }$ is absolutely summable. Therefore, we can apply [21, Corollary 4.2] to obtain

$$\lim _ {n \to \infty} \underline {{\sigma}} \big (\phi_ {n} (g) ^ {T} + \phi_ {n} (g) \big) = \underset {\omega} {\text { ess inf }} f (\omega) \leq \infty \tag {12}$$

where ess inf refers to essential infimum defined in [21, p. 40]. Since $\begin{array} { r } { \left| f ( \omega ) \right| \leq \left| g _ { 0 } \right| + \sum _ { k = - m + 1 } ^ { m - 1 } \left| g _ { k } \right| } \end{array}$ , it follows that the limit is bounded.

From the definition of limit, it follows that for any given $\rho _ { 0 } , \rho ,$ and ε satisfying the assumptions of the theorem, there exists $n ^ { * }$ such that

$$\left| \lim _ {k \rightarrow \infty} \underline {{{{\sigma}}}} \big (\phi_ {k} ^ {T} (g) + \phi_ {k} (g) \big) - \underline {{{{\sigma}}}} \big (\phi_ {n} ^ {T} (g) + \phi_ {n} (g) \big) \right| \leq \epsilon \tag {13}$$
