Under the ideal condition of perfect matching $y = y ^ { * }$ , the idea of VRFT is to derive a compatible reference signal $r =$ $M _ { r } ^ { - 1 } y ^ { * } = M _ { r } ^ { - 1 } y$ , which is then used to obtain the controller C by fitting the input/output pair $( r \mathrm { ~ - ~ } y , u )$ . The inverse reference model $M _ { r } ^ { - 1 }$ is realized by a causal approximation. For linear reference models, the inverse can be removed by filtering of input and output signals via Mr itself, which leads to the filtered optimization problem

$$\min _ {C \in \mathrm{iFIR}} \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {N - 1} (M _ {r} u (t) - C (y - M _ {r} y) (t)) ^ {2} \tag {3}$$

Following [10], for linear plants and linear reference models, the minimizer of (2) also minimizes

$$\min _ {C (z)} \left\| M _ {r} (z) - \frac {P (z) C (z)}{1 + P (z) C (z)} \right\| _ {2} ^ {2} \tag {4}$$

if the optimal controller of the latter, $C ^ { * } ( z )$ , can be represented by an iFIR (1) (for N → ∞ and if u is given by the realization of a stationary and ergodic stochastic process). If $C ^ { * } \notin \mathrm { i F I R } .$ , pre-filtering of the open-loop data $\{ u ( t ) , y ( t ) \} _ { t = 0 , \dots , N - 1 }$ with a suitably chosen LTI filter can reduce the difference between the two minimizers. We refer to [10] for additional details on VRFT.

The optimization problems in (2) and (3) are equivalent to a least-squares problem and hence can be solved efficiently. For instance, take $e = M _ { r } ^ { - 1 } ( y ) - y$ . From [20, Eq. 7.3], the optimization problem (2) (or (3)) with the controller (1) reads

$$\min _ {g \in \mathbb {R} ^ {m}} \| u - E g - \gamma E _ {\text { int }} \| _ {2} ^ {2} \tag {5}$$

$\mathrm { w h e r e } \ g = \left[ g _ { 0 } \mathrm { ~ \quad . . . ~ } g _ { m - 1 } \right] ^ { T } , u = \left[ u ( 0 ) \mathrm { ~ \quad . . . ~ } u ( N - 1 ) \right] ^ { T } ,$

$$
E = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c} e (0) & 0 & \ldots & \ldots & 0 \\ e (1) & e (0) & 0 & \ldots & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & & & \vdots \\ e (N - 2) & e (N - 3) & \ldots & \ldots & e (N - m - 1) \\ e (N - 1) & e (N - 2) & \ldots & \ldots & e (N - m) \end{array} \right],
$$

and $E _ { \mathrm { i n t } } = T _ { s } \left[ e ( 0 ) \quad e ( 0 ) + e ( 1 ) \quad \ldots \quad \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { N - 1 } e ( t ) \right] ^ { T }$ Pt=0 . If the input is persistently exciting, then E will be full rank and a unique solution exists [4, Section 3.2]. In what follows, in our extension of VRFT based on passive iFIR controller, uniqueness of solution is not necessary to guarantee closedloop stability. Therefore, this rank condition will not be considered again.
