Proof: Since $H ^ { k }$ is positive definite and $( \Delta s ^ { * } , \Delta \mathbf { a } ^ { * } )$ minimizes the quadratic model, the change in the objective function along $( \Delta s ^ { * } , \Delta \mathbf { a } ^ { * } )$ from $( s ^ { k } , \mathbf { a } ^ { k } )$ will be negative. Hence it is a descent direction:

$$\nabla C (s ^ {k}, \mathbf {a} ^ {k}) ^ {\mathrm{T}} [ \Delta s ^ {*} \Delta \mathbf {a} ^ {*} ] < 0. \tag {17}$$

Theorem 4.4: If the linear independence constraint qualification (LICQ) holds at each iteration. The sequence $( s ^ { \hat { k } } , \mathbf { a } ^ { k } )$ generated by the SQP algorithm converges to a stationary point of the original problem. And the accumulation point $\left( { s ^ { * } , \mathbf { a } ^ { * } } \right)$ is a local minimum.

Proof: By Lemma (4.3) each iterate (∇s, ∇a) is a descent direction for the merit function. A line search along this direction yields a new iteration that reduces the merit function. Because of the descent property and the line search conditions, the sequence of iterates is bounded and therefore has an accumulation point. The accumulation point satisfies the KKT conditions (15) due to the properties of the merit function and the descent method. Since the sequence of iterations is bounded and the KKT residual is converging to zero, there exists an accumulation point $\left( s ^ { * } , \mathbf { a } ^ { * } \right)$ of the sequence that satisfies the KKT conditions and this point is the local minimum.
