Although standard MPC schemes provide performance, feasibility, and stability guarantees, these are lost when an approximate scheme is used. In the context of NN-based approximations, recent works show that formal guarantees may be recovered by analysing properties of the NN model. For example, closed-loop stability can be guaranteed by checking if the worst-case approximation error of the NN falls within the disturbance set of a robust MPC scheme [6]. Another approach is to combine the worst case error of the NN with its Lipschitz constant to provide sufficient conditions for the stability of the system [7]. Alternatively, it has been shown that the linear system under NN control can be made stable if the reachable set lies within some safe subset of the state space [8].

Mixed-integer programming (MIP) provides a framework in which NN controller properties such as the above can be certified. Specifically, NNs with rectified linear (ReLU) activation functions can be encoded exactly using mixedinteger linear constraints [9], allowing optimization problems such as computing the worst-case approximation error to be solved to global optimality using MIP. Unfortunately, these problems suffer from scalability issues due to the complexity of MIP, but these issues can be partially mitigated by ensuring that MIP formulations with tight linear relaxations are used. MIP formulations of NNs require valid bounds on the intermediate variables in the network, such as the neuron activations. The tightness of these bounds directly influences the tightness of the formulation and subsequently, the speed of the MIP solver.

In this work, we consider several strategies for obtaining tight intermediate bounds in the context of certifying NN controllers. We first investigate how bounds are propagated through both NN layers and dynamic linear systems. We then computationally evaluate various strategies, including interval and optimization-based methods. For the latter, we present strategies based on both the standard big-M, as well as more recent, stronger formulations.
