The synchronisation-oriented design approach systematically generalises the CRM-MRAC method developed in [4–6]. The proposed approach provides additional degrees-of-freedom for adjusting performance through the allocation of coupling input between the plant and the virtual dynamics without changing the tracking error dynamics. It turns out that the existing CRM-MRAC method corresponds to the special case where the diffusive coupling input is allocated only to the virtual dynamics, that is, the tracking error feedback term exists only in the reference model. Unlike the CRM-MRAC architecture of [4–6], the proposed approach allows the plant to contribute to form the coupling input. Also, the proposed approach enables prescription of a stable higher-order nominal dynamics for the tracking error through the design of coupling input. In this manner, the notion of synchronisation supersedes the notion of adding tracking error feedback term to the reference model as the central principle for improving transient characteristics of an adaptive control system.

Regarding the practical advantage, the synchronisation-oriented design approach mitigates the tuning difficulty of the CRM-MRAC system due to the tradeoff between transients and system speed. The proposed approach is capable of adjusting the uncertainty cancellation behaviour blending instantaneous uncertainty rejection and online model learning depending on the allocation of coupling input. The weighting factor introduced to define the weighted average of the states representing the collective behaviour determines the allocation strategy. This study shows that choosing this weighting factor to minimise the gap between the virtual dynamics (i.e., the closed-loop reference model) and its ideal counterpart enables alleviation of the unwanted peaking phenomenon observed in the existing CRM-MRAC method with a strong coupling gain (i.e., a large observer gain) due to the decreased convergence rate of parameter adaptation. Such allocation choice can be realised since the plant also actively participates in the synchronisation process. In this way, the proposed approach can improve the transient performance while avoiding the undesirable effects of slow system response because of the additional flexibility, overcoming the limitation of the CRM-MRAC.
