# 4 Main results

We present an algorithm that can solve the optimal control problem (13) without any prior model knowledge apart from external symmetry (14). Starting with an arbitrary initial input signal, it involves repeatedly running slightly modified time-reversed output signals through the system until convergence. Consider the affine operator $\mathcal { T } \in \mathcal { L } _ { p } ^ { m } ( 0 , t _ { f } ) \times \tilde { \mathcal { L } _ { p } ^ { m } } ( 0 , t _ { f } )$ as follows

$$\mathcal {T} := - R ^ {- 1} \Sigma_ {e} \mathcal {J} \mathcal {G} \Sigma_ {e} Q \mathcal {J} (\mathcal {G} + d _ {x _ {0}}), \tag {17}$$

as illustrated in Figure (1). This operator can be decomposed as $\mathcal { T } = \mathcal { S } + \bar { r } _ { x _ { 0 } }$ where

$$\mathcal {S} = - R ^ {- 1} \Sigma_ {e} \mathcal {J G} \Sigma_ {e} Q \mathcal {J G} = \mathcal {T} _ {| x _ {0} = 0}, \tag {18}r _ {x _ {0}} = - R ^ {- 1} \Sigma_ {e} \mathcal {J G} \Sigma_ {e} Q \mathcal {J} d _ {x _ {0}}.$$

Since all the operators (including the linear system (9)) in series are bounded in (18), S is a bounded linear operator in $\mathcal { L } _ { p } ^ { m } ( 0 , t _ { f } )$ and ${ \dot { r } } _ { x _ { 0 } } \in \mathcal { L } _ { p } ^ { m } ( 0 , t _ { f } )$ . An attractive feature of operator T is that it can be evaluated online by only using the input-output data of the system. Therefore, as the next lemma shows, this operator can be used to solve Problem (13) without knowing the system model. When there is no confusion we omit the time arguments for conciseness.

Lemma 1. Let Assumption 1 hold. The control input $u \in \mathcal { L } _ { p } ^ { m } ( 0 , t _ { f } )$ is optimal in Problem (13) if and only if it is a fixed point of the operator T defined in (17).

Proof. We begin with adjoining the linear system dynamics (5) to the optimization problem (13) to form the Hamiltonian

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {H} \big (x (t), u (t), \lambda (t) \big) = \frac {1}{2} \big (y ^ {\prime} (t) Q y (t) + u ^ {\prime} (t) R u (t) \big) \\ + \lambda^ {\prime} (A x (t) + B u (t)) \\ = \frac {1}{2} \left(x ^ {\prime} C ^ {\prime} Q C x + 2 u ^ {\prime} D ^ {\prime} Q C x \right. \tag {19} \\ \left. + u ^ {\prime} \left(R + D ^ {\prime} Q D\right) u\right) + \lambda^ {\prime} (A x + B u). \\ \end{array}
$$

By the Pontryagin’s principle [31], the necessary conditions of optimality are given based on (19) as follows
