1) We derive the continuous-time error dynamics for the WMR trajectory tracking by considering its manifold constraint and kinematic constraint simultaneously. This derivation enables us to formulate the trajectory tracking as an errordynamic optimal control problem.   
2) We propose different linearization schemes for the error dynamics to convexification. We show the rationale behind why the proposed linearization scheme is suitable for trajectory tracking and how it helps in the design of convex MPC.   
3) We conduct various simulations and physical experiments with different WMRs and tracking scenarios, which verified the efficiency of our linearization scheme and control framework. Our pure Python-based simulation is open-source to facilitate further research in the community1.

The remains of this letter are organized as follows. In Section II, some preliminaries on the special Euclidean group and the wheeled mobile robot are presented. In Section III, the main results of the GMPC framework are presented. In Section IV, simulations and physical experiments are provided to evaluate the performance of our method. In Section V, the letter is concluded and some future directions are discussed.

Notations: The main notations used in this letter are as follows.

<table><tr><td> $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ </td><td>n-dimensional vector space</td></tr><tr><td>SE(2)</td><td>special Euclidean group</td></tr><tr><td> $\mathfrak{se}(2)$ </td><td>Lie algebra associated with  $SE(2)$ </td></tr><tr><td> $X \in SE(2)$ </td><td>state of the rigid body moving in the plane</td></tr><tr><td> $X_{d} \in SE(2)$ </td><td>desired state of the rigid body moving in the plane</td></tr><tr><td> $\zeta \in \mathbb{R}^{3}$ </td><td>velocity of the rigid body moving in the plane</td></tr><tr><td> $\zeta^{\wedge} \in \mathfrak{se}(2)$ </td><td>element in Lie algebra</td></tr><tr><td> $u \in \mathbb{R}^{2}$ </td><td>control input of the WMR</td></tr><tr><td> $\Psi \in SE(2)$ </td><td>difference between  $X_{d}$  and  $X$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\psi^{\wedge} \in \mathfrak{se}(2)$ </td><td>Lie algebra associated with  $\Psi$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\dot{X} = \frac{d}{dt} X$ </td><td>first-order time-derivative of  $X$ </td></tr></table>

We use $I _ { n \times m }$ and $0 _ { n \times m }$ to represent the $n \times m$ identity matrix and zero matrix, respectively. For notational clarity, the subscript will be dropped if the matrix dimension is clear.
