# 2.2 Utility and logit function

Actions of players are parameterized by $x \in \Omega$ . If the distribution of actions is $\mu \in \mathcal P \subset \mathcal M$ , each player choosing an action  gains a utility $U : \Omega \times \mathcal { M }  \mathbb { R }$ .For any $x \in \Omega$ and $\mu , \nu \in \mathcal { M } _ { 2 }$ is bounded and satisfies the Lipschitz continuity

$$\left| U (x, \mu) - U (y, \nu) \right| \leq L _ {U} \left(\left| x - y \right| + \| \mu - \nu \|\right). \tag {3}$$

The Lipschitz continuity has been widely assumed in evolutionary game theory (e.g., Perkins and Leslie,

2014; Lahkar and Riedel, 2015; Mendoza-Palacios and Hernández-Lerma, 2022). The utility has been defined on $\Omega \times \mathcal { M }$ but not on $\Omega \times \mathcal { P }$ for a technical reason (see Proof of Proposition 1 in Appendix A).

Remark 1: We focus on the utility  independent from time  t , whereas the findings presented as follows apply to the cases with time-dependent continuous in $\left[ 0 , + \infty \right)$ ; see Section 4).

Fix a pair of actions $x , y \in \Omega$ . The classical logit function $a : \Omega \times \Omega \times \mathcal { M }  \mathbb { R }$ represents the rate that the player choosing the action  changes it to  after a small amount of time (e.g., Aiba, 2015; Sandholm and Staudigl, 2018; Leon et al., 2023):

$$a (x, y, \mu) = \frac {1}{1 + \exp \left(\frac {U (x , \mu) - U (y , \mu)}{\eta}\right)} \text { for any } x, y \in \Omega \text { and } \mu \in \mathcal {M}, \tag {4}$$

where $\eta > 0$ is the noise intensity; a larger n yields a smaller variation of $a \left( x , y , \mu \right)$ for $x , y \in \Omega$ owing to blurred information. With this formulation, the rate of jumps from $x \_ { \mathrm { ~ \scriptsize ~ t o ~ } \mathrm { ~ y ~ } }$ is higher when $U \left( y , \mu \right)$ is larger than $U \left( x , \mu \right)$ . The logit function (4) thus models the utility-driven action choice. A player currently choosing a large utility therefore tends to remain using it, according to the logit function.

We introduce the κ-exponential function as a hyperbolic regularization of the exponential one (e.g., Kaniadakis et al., 2020):

$$
e _ {\kappa} (z) = \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} \left(\kappa z + \sqrt {\kappa^ {2} z ^ {2} + 1}\right) ^ {\frac {1}{\kappa}} & (0 <   \kappa \leq 1) \\ \exp (z) & (\kappa = 0) \end{array} \text {   for   any   } z \in \mathbb {R}. \right. \tag {5}
$$
