Partitioned formulation for ReLU. While the big-M formulation represents an NN exactly over the box domain (6), it suffers from a weak convex relaxation [11]. As discussed in more detail in Section III, a weak convex relaxation can lead to longer solution times when using a branch-and-bound solver. Stronger formulations, such as the extended formulation [11], can represent the convex hull of each neuron exactly using $\mathcal { O } ( n _ { l - 1 } )$ auxiliary variables and constraints for each neuron in the network. As such, the extended formulation results in larger problem sizes that can lead to longer solve times despite its tighter relaxation.

Our recent work introduces an intermediate formulation that can balance the trade-off between tightness and compactness [12]. Specifically, the sum $W _ { i } ^ { ( l ) } z ^ { ( l - 1 ) }$ is partitioned into several auxiliary variables $\tilde { z } _ { p }$ for $p = 1 , \ldots , P$ such that

$$
\begin{array}{l} W _ {i} ^ {(l)} z ^ {(l - 1)} = \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {n _ {l - 1}} W _ {i j} ^ {(l)} z _ {j} ^ {(l - 1)} = \sum_ {p = 1} ^ {P} \tilde {z} _ {p} (7a) \\ \tilde {z} _ {p} = \sum_ {j \in \mathbb {S} _ {p}} W _ {i j} ^ {(l)} z _ {j} ^ {(l - 1)} (7b) \\ \end{array}
$$

where the partitions $\mathbb { S } _ { p }$ are chosen such that $\mathbb { S } _ { 1 } \cup \ldots \cup \mathbb { S } _ { P } =$ $\{ 1 , \dotsc , n _ { l - 1 } \}$ and $\mathbb { S } _ { j } \cap \mathbb { S } _ { i } \ : = \ : \emptyset , \forall i \ : \neq \ : j .$ . Strategies for choosing the partitions are described in [12]. An extended formulation is then applied in the space of the $\tilde { z } _ { i } ^ { ( l ) }$ variables, resulting in a potentially tighter formulation. Specifically, in cases where $P = 1$ , the partitioned formulation shares an equivalent convex relaxation with the big-M formulation. Conversely, when $P ~ = ~ n _ { l - 1 }$ , the partitioned formulation aligns with the full extended formulation. Varying P between these two extremes enables a balance to be struck between the tightness and size of the intermediate formulations.

Note that, similar to the big-M formulation, intermediate bounds on each partitioned variable $\tilde { z } _ { p }$ are required for the partitioned formulation. For both formulations (5) and (7), the tightness of the involved intermediate bounds directly influences the tightness of the overall convex relaxation.
