$$\left[ c _ {k + 1 \mid k} ^ {r, \star}, c _ {k + 2 \mid k} ^ {r, \star}, \dots , c _ {k + 1 \mid k} ^ {r, \star}, c _ {k + 1 \mid k} ^ {r, \star} + \hat {\theta} _ {i, j} ^ {r} \right] \tag {47}$$

where $c _ { k + 1 | k } ^ { r , \star } + \hat { \theta } _ { i , j } ^ { r } \le c _ { k ^ { \star } + 1 } ^ { p }$ and $c _ { k ^ { \star } + 1 } ^ { p } \in S S ^ { H , r }$ , satisfy all constraints of the high-level optimal control problem (31). Note that the input matrix in (46) plans an N -step path along the graph G that follows the node trajectory

$$[ n _ {k + 1 | k} ^ {r \star}, n _ {k + 2 | k} ^ {r \star}, \dots , n _ {k + N | k} ^ {r \star}, n _ {k ^ {\star} + 1} ^ {p} ].$$

Therefore, (46) and (47) above are a feasible solution for the high-level optimal control problem at event $k + 1$ of iteration r.

We have shown that at iteration $r \geq 1$ , if the hierarchical controller as outlined in Alg. 1 was feasible at iteration $r - 1$ , then i) the hierarchical controller outlined in Alg. 1 is feasible at event $k = 0$ , and ii) if the hierarchical controller is feasible at event $k ,$ then it is feasible at event $k + 1$ . We conclude by induction that the hierarchical controller using (33), (31) will result in a feasible trajectory for all iterations $r \geq 1$ from the initial state $x _ { 0 } ^ { r } = x _ { s }$ .

Theorem 3 (Iterative Cost Improvement): Consider a system (1) in closed-loop with the hierarchical controller outlined in Alg. 1, where $\pi ^ { H , r }$ is as in (31) and $\pi ^ { L , r }$ as in (33). Let SL,ri,j $\bar { S _ { i , j } ^ { L , r } }$ be the safe set corresponding to each edge $e _ { i , j }$ as defined in (25), and ${ \mathcal { S } } ^ { H , r }$ be the safe set as defined in (23). Then, the hierarchical controller outlined in Alg. 1 will exhibit iterative performance improvement as outlined in Def. 2 from the initial state $x _ { 0 } ^ { r } = x _ { S }$ for all iterations $r \geq 1$ .

Proof: By definition of the iteration cost, the closedloop performance of the hierarchical controller at iteration r in Alg. 1 is given by

$$V _ {n} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r}) = V _ {n} ^ {H} (g _ {\tau} (\mathbf {x} ^ {r}) = V _ {n} ^ {H} (\mathbf {x} ^ {H, r})$$
