# D. Certification problem statement

Recent works employ MIP to certify properties of NN control policies, such as the worst case error [6], the Lipshitz constant [7], reachable sets [10], and closed-loop stability [8]. Although other “complete” NN certification techniques such as SMT [13] exist, we focus on MIP as a versatile framework for analyzing the properties of approximate MPC (e.g., the above encoding for MPC schemes). In this work, we consider the two following certification problems.

Worst-case error. The worst-case approximation error of the NN controller can be calculated using the following MIP:

$$\max _ {x _ {0}} \| u - \hat {u} \| \tag {8a}\text { s.t. } x _ {0} \in \mathcal {X} _ {i n} \tag {8b}u = u _ {M P C} (x _ {0}) \tag {8c}\hat {u} = f _ {N N} (x _ {0}) \tag {8d}$$

where (8a) and (8b) contain, respectively, a MIPrepresentable norm and input domain. Constraint (8c) encodes the MPC model, e.g., using the KKT conditions, and (8d) encodes the NN controller, e.g., using the Big-M, partitioned or extended formulations. The result of (8) can additionally be used to certify the stability of approximate control schemes [6], [7].

Reachability analysis over multiple time-steps. Another useful quantity is the reachable set, which can be bounded using MIP [8]. We define the K-step reachable set to be the set of possible final states $x _ { K }$ under the NN control policy $x _ { k } = A x _ { k - 1 } + B f _ { N N } ( x _ { k - 1 } )$ given an initial state set $x _ { 0 } \in$ $\mathcal { X } _ { i n }$ . We choose to bound this set with a polytope $\{ \boldsymbol { x } _ { K } ~ \}$ $C _ { o u t } x _ { K } \le c _ { o u t } \}$ , where the matrix $C _ { o u t }$ is chosen ahead of time and defines the facets of our polyhedral bounding set. We wish to obtain the tightest possible constants $c _ { o u t }$ such that $C _ { o u t } x _ { K } \le c _ { o u t }$ holds for all $x _ { 0 } \in \mathcal { X } _ { i n }$ . We can achieve this by solving the following mixed-integer program for each row of $C _ { o u t } \mathrm { : }$

$$\max C _ {o u t, i} x _ {K} \tag {9a}\text { s.t. } x _ {0} \in \mathcal {X} _ {i n} \tag {9b}x _ {k + 1} = A x _ {k} + B u _ {k}, \quad k \in [ K - 1 ] \tag {9c}u _ {k} = f _ {N N} (x _ {k}), \quad k \in [ K - 1 ] \tag {9d}$$

where (9b) again includes a MIP-representable input domain, and (9d) again includes the NN controller using a suitable MIP formulation. Each $C _ { o u t , i } x _ { K } \le c _ { o u t , i }$ defines a hyperplane bounding the reachable set. By choosing the directions and number of hyperplanes it is possible to get a more refined view of the output reachable set.
