# C. Optimization-based bounds tightening (OBBT)

As implied by its name, OBBT solves optimization problems to compute the minimum and maximum values reachable by each variable. For instance, if the original MIP formulation is used, OBBT can compute the exact tightest bounds, but at the cost of solving 2 MIPs for every intermediate variable. Note that when obtaining bounds for an intermediate variable, only those variables in prior layers of the problem must be included in the OBBT subproblem. This can still be prohibitively expensive, particularly for large problems defined over multiple timesteps, where later OBBT subproblems may have a complexity similar to the full certification problem. We refer to this (exact) bound tightening technique as MIP-OBBT. The Big-M and partitioned formulations of ReLU neural networks are both exact, so MIP-OBBT yields the same solution regardless of which formulation is used.

The computational cost of MIP-OBBT can be greatly reduced by instead considering a linear relaxation of the OBBT subproblems, which typically results in looser bounds. The linear relaxation is formed by relaxing binary variables to be continuous in [0, 1]. We will refer to this as linear programming-based OBBT (LP-OBBT). Unlike MIP-OBBT, the choice of formulation directly influences the tightness of the resulting bounds. As discussed above, the Big-M formulation has a particularly weak linear relaxation so the intermediate bounds obtained from LP-OBBT may be a large over-approximation of the true bounds. On the other hand, partitioned formulations lead to tighter bounds as the number of partitions P increases, at the cost of more expensive subproblems.
