Another stream for modeling decision-making problems among players is the mean field game (MFG) theory, where infinitely many interacting players choose their actions considering a current to future expectation (e.g., Lasry and Lions, 2007); utilities gained in the future are considered by the players through a conditional expectation (i.e., future prediction). The governing equation of the optimal actions of players in this theory is a coupled system of time-forward Fokker–Planck (FP) equation of the population measure and a time-backward Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman (HJB) equation as its formal nonlinear adjoint. The evolution equation to be solved is more complicated in an MFG than in an evolutionary game because the former deals with a forward–backward system. A vast number of studies have been conducted to investigate the well-posedness of MFG models, focusing on the monotonicity of the utility/cost (Gomes and Saúde, 2021; Cohen and Zell, 2023), analytical solutions (Dai Pra et al., 2023; Ullmo et al., 2019), and numerical approximations (Ghilli et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023). The MFG also finds its applications in manufacturing (Wang and Xin, 2023), epidemic control (Roy et al., 2023), crowd evacuation (Yano and Kuroda, 2023), and management of electric vehicles (Lin et al., 2022).

Recently, it has been reported that an evolutionary game model appears to be a myopic version of an MFG for a diffusion process (Barker, 2019). Subsequently, the two approaches have been systematically compared against different utility profiles (Barker et al., 2022). A key in this context is to scale the objective function in the MFG to relate it to the corresponding evolutionary game. It is reasonable to expect that a similar linkage is found under a different setting such as a jump-driven dynamic; however, to the best of the authors’ knowledge, investigations in this direction have been insufficient. Such studies would contribute not only to theory of dynamic games, but also to several application areas where social behavior of players is crucial, which include but are not limited to epidemiology (Certório et al., 2022), ecology (Thon et al., 2024), and resource management (Gao et al., 2024).
