Most common CBF formulations are model-based in nature, implying the need for a model to estimate CBF gradients and be able to derive safe actions. However, in an RL context it is common to not have a-priori known system models. Consequently, several CBF based SRL implementations use uncertainty-aware CBFs. Typically, such methods use a nominal system model, and treat differences from the actual system as disturbances. Several works [11, 13], to cite a few, use CBFs to enforce safety during the training of RL agents. The authors of [11] proposes a method for augmenting a generic RL model-free method with safety during training using CBFs safety filters. Their method depend on a nominal system model with a GP to model the disturbance, and such framework allows for having probabilistic guarantees. Moreover, they propose a method to incentivize the trained policy to produce safer actions through incorporating the history of previously filtered actions. In line with the approach of using GP to learn disturbance, the authors of [22] utilize the learned disturbance estimates to make subtle adjustments to the actions of their policy, ensuring system safety with minimal alterations.

Disturbance observers (DOBs) provide effective tools to deal with uncertainties [13]. In this work, the authors present a high relative degree CBF formulation with disturbance, and adopt a few assumptions about the boundedness of the disturbance and its derivative. This enables formulating a predictor for the upper bound of disturbance and incorporate such function in the CBF constraint that filters RL actions during training. The safe action and consequent reward are then added to a buffer that is used in the RL training process to enhance the final policy.

Addressing uncertainties, this paper [76] introduces Uncertainty-Tolerant Control Barrier Functions (UTCBFs), a novel CBF category that accommodates model uncertainty while ensuring provable safety guarantees. For systems featuring unknown dynamics, model dynamics and state predictions are derived using GP. Initially, the UTCBF constraint is conservative during early exploration due to a large uniform error bound caused by model uncertainty. As more data is gathered, the error bound converges, gradually relaxing the restrictiveness of the constraint. The policy is updated through constraint optimization.
