Algorithm 1: Setpoint Update Algorithm   
Input: Agent i with setpoint $x_{sp,i}$ , $\mathcal{D}_{i}(t)$ Output: Updated setpoint $x_{sp,i}$ potential_safety_violation ← 0;
if $x_{i}(t) \in \mathcal{E}_{s}(x_{sp,i})$ then
    Compute $x'_{sp} \leftarrow (8)$ ;
    for $j \in \mathcal{D}_{i}(t)$ do
    if $\mathcal{E}_{c}(x_{sp,i}) \cap \mathcal{E}_{c}(x_{sp,j}) \neq \emptyset$ then
    potential_safety_violation ← 1;
    break;
    end
    end
    if potential_safety_violation == 0 then $x_{sp,i} \leftarrow x'_{sp,i}$ ;
    end
end

Assumption 2: The initial setpoints of all agents satisfy the safety condition (7).

Assumption 3: During the setpoint update for agent i, all agents $j \in \mathcal { D } _ { i } ( t )$ cannot change their setpoints $x _ { s p , j } .$ .

Proposition 2: Considering the MAS described where the agents are LTI systems (2) and Assumptions 1, 2 and 3, then applying Algorithm 1 to each agent guarantees that the safety condition (7) is satisfied for all agents.

Proof: By Assumption 2, the initial setpoints of all agents satisfy the safety condition (7). Whenever an agent i updates its setpoint using Algorithm 1, it checks if the new target setpoint $x _ { s p , i } ^ { \prime }$ violates the safety condition for any agent $j \in \mathcal { D } _ { i } ( t )$ . If a violation is detected, the setpoint is not updated, ensuring that the current safe solution is maintained. Proposition 1 guarantees that safety is only impacted for agents within the one-hop communication range, which agent i can directly communicate with before executing the update. Furthermore, Assumption 3 prevents agents in $\mathcal { D } _ { i } ( t )$ from changing their setpoints during agent $\textit { i } \ ' _ { \mathbf { S } }$ update, ensuring a consistent safety evaluation. Therefore, by applying Algorithm 1 to each agent, the safety condition (7) is upheld throughout the system’s operation.

In the second step, we need to verify whether the safety condition (7) is going to be violated. Our objective is to demonstrate that if (7) is violated, then there exists a point on the line connecting $x _ { s p , i }$ and $x _ { s p , j }$ , inside the overlap region of two ellipsoids $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , i } )$ and $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , j } )$ (Fig. 2b). This overlap region, denoted by $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x s p , i ) \cap \mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , j } )$ , satisfies the following condition:
