In this system model, $x _ { k }$ and $u _ { k }$ represent the state and control input vectors at time step ??, respectively. The system dynamics are captured by two components: a prior nominal model $f \left( \boldsymbol { x } _ { k } , \boldsymbol { u } _ { k } \right)$ , which represents the known part of the system, and a learning-based model $g \left( x _ { k } , u _ { k } \right)$ , designed to compensate for discrepancies between the nominal model and actual system behaviors. To manage the dimensionality of the learning-based model’s output and direct its influence to specific subsystems or states, a matrix $B _ { d }$ precedes ?? $( x _ { k } , u _ { k } )$ . This matrix $B _ { d }$ enables the model to target only a subset of the system states ??, thus enhancing computational efficiency without sacrificing model fidelity. Additionally, the model includes spatially uncorrelated Gaussian noise $\omega _ { k }$ with $\omega _ { k } \sim { \cal N } ( 0 , \Sigma ^ { \omega } )$ , where $\Sigma ^ { \omega } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( [ \sigma _ { 1 } ^ { 2 } , \cdot \cdot \cdot , \sigma _ { n _ { d } } ^ { 2 } ] )$ represents the noise’s diagonal variance matrix. It is worth noting that the use of $B _ { d }$ is mainly aimed at enhancing computational efficiency by reducing the learning-based model’s output on a subset of dimensions. However, it is entirely feasible to set $B _ { d } = \mathbf { I }$ , which allows the GP model ?? $( x _ { k } , u _ { k } )$ to influence across all system states ??.

Using (9), the learning-based model $g \left( x _ { k } , u _ { k } \right)$ in (11a) is approximated as a GP model $d \left( \boldsymbol { x } _ { k } , \boldsymbol { u } _ { k } \right)$ in (11b) as:

$$d \left(x _ {k}, u _ {k}\right) \sim \mathcal {N} \left(\mu^ {d} \left(x _ {k}, u _ {k}\right), \Sigma^ {d} \left(x _ {k}, u _ {k}\right)\right), \tag {12}$$

which captures the learning-based adjustments to the system dynamics.

In the framework of GP modeling, the inputs at the current time step are assumed to follow a Gaussian distribution. However, the outputs of the GP model (posterior predictions) result in stochastic variables with unknown distribution. With such uncertain inputs (the predictive posterior of the current time step), the distribution of the GP output at the next time step is not Gaussian anymore [21]. This is a problem to use (11b) as the prediction model in MPC, which needs to make predictions for multiple time steps ahead.
