Theorem 2 (Stability Criterion for WT-GSC Switched System): If there exist a symmetric positive definite matrix $\check { P } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \hat { 2 } \times 2 }$ given by (25), a constant $\mu > 0$ , and a $\lambda _ { 1 } \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ , satisfying the following conditions:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} - 1. 5 R x _ {1 e} + 1. 5 \omega L x _ {2 e} + v _ {\mathrm{LVRT}} - v _ {G} = 0 \\ \left[ \lambda_ {1} \boldsymbol {A} _ {1} + (1 - \lambda_ {1}) \boldsymbol {A} _ {2} \right] \boldsymbol {x} _ {e} + \left[ \lambda_ {1} \boldsymbol {B} _ {1} \boldsymbol {u} _ {1} + (1 - \lambda_ {1}) \boldsymbol {B} _ {2} \boldsymbol {u} _ {2} \right] = \mathbf {0} \end{array} \right. \tag {26}

\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \boldsymbol {P} \succ \mathbf {0} \\ \boldsymbol {A} _ {1} ^ {\mathrm{T}} \boldsymbol {P} + \boldsymbol {P} \boldsymbol {A} _ {1} + \mu \boldsymbol {P} \prec \mathbf {0} \\ \boldsymbol {A} _ {2} ^ {\mathrm{T}} \boldsymbol {P} + \boldsymbol {P} \boldsymbol {A} _ {2} + \mu \boldsymbol {P} \prec \mathbf {0} \end{array} . \right. \tag {27}
$$

Then, the WT-GSC switched system is asymptotically stable about $\mathbf { \Delta } _ { \mathbf { \mathcal { X } } _ { \epsilon } }$ during the repeated LVRT switching process.

The steps for solving this stability problem are explained as follows:

Step 1: Solve the equation conditions in (26). This equation group contains three equations and four unknowns $( \mathrm { i } . \mathrm { e } . , \ x _ { 1 e } ,$ $x _ { 2 e } , \ v _ { \mathrm { L V R T } }$ , and $\lambda _ { 1 } )$ . The expected stable equilibrium point of the switched system $( x _ { 1 e } , x _ { 2 e } )$ is the quantity to be determined. According to actual control requirements, this problem can be solved by predetermining $v _ { \mathrm { L V R T } }$ or $\lambda _ { 1 }$ . Generally, vLVRT is given.

Step 2: Solve the inequality conditions in (27). This inequality group can be expanded to six linear inequalities about $p$ according to the matrix positive/negative definite criteria. Substituting a specific constant $\mu > 0$ into (27), if this problem is solvable, then the WT-GSC switched system is stable.

For the purpose of fully reflecting the stability differences of the switched system under varying parameter groups, we define the following optimization problem:
