GPs are used in [36] to model and construct CBFs from demonstration data. In this work, Gaussian CBFs are presented, which aims to produce a posterior with a positive value for regions in state space with high confidence. To that end, data samples from the safe sets directly shapes the CBF structure, which becomes negative in areas where less data is collected (due to being unsafe). Such structure allows for great flexibility in CBF formulation, as well as online construction and enforcement of safety with these CBFs.

The authors of [30] undertake the learning process of a GP and its associated confidence while employing Satisfiability Modulo Theories solvers to find a valid control barrier functions and the corresponding control policies within the input space. This learned GP aid in comprehending the unknown control affine nonlinear dynamics and addressing uncertainties inherent in a learned model for the control barrier functions. The work in [34] also addresses the limitations of CBF when confronted with model uncertainties. The proposed method in [34] tackles this challenge by acquiring insights into the unmodeled dynamics through the utilization of GP. It integrates the Gaussian CBF approach and formulates it within the context of an online QP optimization problem.

Furthermore, the authors [35] tackle as well the challenge of model uncertainties and their influence on CBF. These uncertainties are captured by calculating the posterior variance through GP, conditioned on previous measurement states. They integrate a Gaussian CBF, incorporating safety uncertainty by utilizing the posterior variance derived from past measurement data. The system input is compared against the Gaussian-CBF framed as a QP problem, and adjustments are made if necessary.
