Fig. 10. A mixed vehicle platoon consists of $N _ { a }$ connected AVs, labeled as $A ^ { 1 } , A ^ { 2 } , \cdots , A ^ { N _ { a } }$ , followed by a HV ??. These AVs use a sequential bidirectional communication topology for data exchange, excluding direct communication with the HV. This configuration is motivated by recent studies highlighting that most accidents in mixed traffic involve HVs rear-ending AVs, leading to the specific platoon arrangement showcased [10].

model, as described in [10]. The ARX model for HV velocity prediction is represented as:

$$
\begin{array}{l} v _ {k} ^ {H} = - c _ {1} v _ {k - 1} ^ {H} - c _ {2} v _ {k - 2} ^ {H} - c _ {3} v _ {k - 3} ^ {H} - c _ {4} v _ {k - 4} ^ {H} + b _ {1} v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}} + b _ {2} v _ {k - 2} ^ {N _ {a}} + b _ {3} v _ {k - 3} ^ {N _ {a}} + b _ {4} v _ {k - 4} ^ {N _ {a}}, (59a) \\ = f \left(v _ {k - 1: k - 4} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1: k - 4} ^ {N _ {a}}\right). (59b) \\ \end{array}
$$

Here, $v _ { k - i } ^ { H }$ ?? and $v _ { k - i } ^ { N _ { a } }$ represent the velocities of the HV and the last vehicle in the AV platoon at time step $k - i ,$ respectively. The coefficients $c _ { 1 , \cdots , 4 }$ and $b _ { 1 , \cdots , 4 }$ are constant coefficients associated with velocities of the HV and the last vehicle in the AV platoon at previous time steps respectively. Similar to combining GP models with the nominal model in these path-following control application examples, GP models are combined with the nominal model (59b) not only to enhance the accuracy of the HV model but also to offer a quantifiable measure of modeling uncertainties. The GP-enhanced ARX model is developed as:

$$v _ {k} ^ {H} = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {4} - c _ {i} v _ {k - i} ^ {H} + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {4} b _ {i} v _ {k - i} ^ {N _ {a}} = f (\cdot), \tag {60a}$$

ARX prediction GP-based correction

$$\tilde {v} _ {k} ^ {H} = \overbrace {v _ {k} ^ {H}} + \overbrace {g (v _ {k - 1} ^ {H} , v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}})} . \tag {60b}$$

In this model, $\tilde { v } _ { k } ^ { H }$ represents the GP-compensated velocity prediction of the HV. The GP model $g ( \cdot )$ learns the divergence between the actual system behaviors and the ARX predictions. It considers both $v ^ { H }$ (HV velocity) and $v ^ { N _ { a } }$ (velocity of the last AV). This ensures that the GP model adequately captures the dynamics of the HV as influenced by the actions of the leading AV.
