The work in [24] addresses the issue of potential reduction in system performance and lack of feasible solutions (i.e. potentially conflicting constraints, or system getting stuck due to lack of safe actions that progress the mission) with a fixed extended class K function in the CBF constraint structure, i.e., a fixed α(h) function in (3). The proposed framework represents the α function as a GNN and trains an RL policy that regulates α to control how conservative or aggressive the constraint behavior is. This policy aims to increase the chance of having feasible solutions, while enhancing the overall system performance and generalizability to new environments.

Similarly in [50], the authors aim to enhance applicability of CBF constraints to new environments, as well as system performance. However, they use Exponential CBFs to account for systems with high relative degree. The framework laid out in [50] trains an agent that manipulates the CBF constraint structure at higher relative degree, in a manner similar to [24], to eventually enhance system performance, reduce control effort and enhance feasibility.

Besides the different methods of constructing CBFs we discussed previously, an additional approach is through the refinement of “less accurate” CBFs. For instance, [15] starts by using a handcrafted CBF (HCBF), along with its safe set, as an initial guess for the true safe set. This candidate is then augmented with an increment that aims to bring the CBF closer to the true, possibly bigger, safe set. The increment is modeled with a Deep Differential Network (DDN) and trained based on sampled data for safe and unsafe states.

This framework was further extended in [16], which proposes a method for sampling data points based on Prioritized Experience Replay, leading to a better sample efficiency and needing less samples to train the CBF increment.
