The ResNet in (6) is nonlinear in terms of the weights. Adaptive control design for nonlinearly parameterized systems is known to be a difficult problem [27]. A number of adaptive control methods have been developed to address the challenges posed by a nonlinear parameterization [3], [12], [27]– [32]. In particular, first-order Taylor series approximationbased techniques have shown promising results for neural network-based adaptive controllers [3], [5], [12]. Specifically, the result in [12] uses a first-order Taylor series approximation to derive weight adaptation laws for a fully-connected DNNbased adaptive controller. Thus, motivation exists to explore a Taylor series approximation-based design to derive adaptation laws for the ResNet. For the ResNet in (6), a first-order Taylor series approximation-based error model is given by [26, Eq. 22]

$$\Phi^ {\theta^ {*}} (x) - \Phi^ {\hat {\theta}} (x) = \Phi^ {\prime} \tilde {\theta} + \mathcal {O} \left(\left\| \tilde {\theta} \right\| ^ {2}\right), \tag {20}$$

where $\mathcal { O } \left( \left. \tilde { \theta } \right. ^ { 2 } \right)$ denotes higher-order terms. Since $\| x _ { d } ( t ) \| ~ \le ~ \mathsf { \bar { x } } _ { d }$ for all $t ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ , x can be bounded as $\| x \| \leq \| e + x _ { d } \| \leq \| z \| + \| x _ { d } \| \leq \kappa + \overline { { x _ { d } } }$ , based on the definition of D, when $z \in \mathcal { D }$ . Hence, since the ResNet is smooth, there exists a known constant $\overline { { \Delta } } \in \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 }$ such that $\left\| \mathcal { O } \left( \left\| \widetilde { \theta } \right\| ^ { 2 } \right) \right\| \leq \overline { { \Delta } }$ , when $z \in \mathcal { D }$ . Then, substituting (20) into (19), the closed-loop error system can be expressed as

$$\dot {e} = \Phi^ {\prime} \tilde {\theta} + \mathcal {O} \left(\left\| \tilde {\theta} \right\| ^ {2}\right) + \varepsilon (x) - \sigma_ {e} e - \sigma_ {s} \mathrm{sgn} (e). \tag {21}$$

Then, using (9) and (21) yields

$$\dot {z} = h (z, t), \tag {22}$$

where $h : \mathbb { R } ^ { \Psi } \times \mathbb { R } _ { \ge 0 } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { \Psi }$ is defined as

$$h (z, t) \triangleq \left[ \binom {\Phi^ {\prime} \tilde {\theta} + \mathcal {O} \left(\left\| \tilde {\theta} \right\| ^ {2}\right) + \varepsilon (x)} {- \sigma_ {e} e - \sigma_ {s} \mathrm{sgn} (e)} - \Gamma \Phi^ {\prime T} e \right]. \tag {23}$$
