Remark 1: Although Algorithm 1 ensures safety according to Proposition 2, it does not guarantee target achievement. Agents within one-hop communication range may become immobilized at a certain position because any attempt to reach the target points could potentially violate the safety condition (7). We intentionally refrain from employing any enforcer to resolve deadlock scenarios. Instead, we allow the agents to learn how to avoid or recover from them through the training process.

In summary, our analysis provides the following key theoretical results:

• Each agent’s setpoint update only impacts the safety of neighboring agents within its one-hop communication range. This localized effect is an important property that enables decentralized coordination.   
• we establish that Algorithm 1 guarantees the preservation of the safety condition in (7) for all agents,   
• We provide (15) a computationally tractable method for evaluating possible safety condition (7) violations.

Together, these theoretical results form the basis for our safe and distributed multi-agent control framework, ensuring that agents can dynamically update their setpoints while maintaining the prescribed safety guarantees through local communication and coordination.

<table><tr><td></td><td colspan="3">Training Conditions</td><td colspan="2">Evaluation Results</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Safety Filter</td><td>Explicit Penalty</td><td>Truncation</td><td>Avg Coverage</td><td>Avg Safety Interventions</td></tr><tr><td>Baseline</td><td>No</td><td>No</td><td>No</td><td>(37.63 ± 16.62)%</td><td>26.99 ± 12.31</td></tr><tr><td>Approach A</td><td>Yes</td><td>No</td><td>No</td><td>(50.14 ± 12.72)%</td><td>20.45 ± 7.49</td></tr><tr><td>Approach B</td><td>Yes</td><td>Yes</td><td>No</td><td>(45.02 ± 11.81)%</td><td>15.25 ± 7.82</td></tr><tr><td>Approach C</td><td>Yes</td><td>Yes</td><td>Yes</td><td>(10.86 ± 6.44)%</td><td>9.76 ± 5.72</td></tr></table>

TABLE I: Comparison of the trained agents performance across 100 evaluation episodes.
