Safe navigation with the MPC framework is typically enforced as distance constraints described in the form of Euclidean norms where the distance between the navigating robot and obstacles should be larger than a safety margin, see [17]–[20]. The distance constraint will not confine the optimization problem until a reachable set along the horizon intersects with the obstacles. This way, the robot will not take action to avoid the obstacles unless they are nearby. One way to address this challenge is by using a larger horizon, which could significantly increase the computational cost in real-time implementation. As such, there is a need for an invariant safe set that could confine the robot’s movement during the optimization at every time step independent of whether the robot is near an obstacle or not [21]. Control barrier functions (CBF) represent a safety measure of the system that could be utilized (e.g., Euclidean distance between mobile robot and obstacles). In this case, the controller can be synthesized and the CBF can be designed to guarantee stable error dynamics as well as safe navigation. Recently, CBF was introduced in [16], where the control input was the solution to a quadratic programming problem. The main idea of the quadratic programming program is to impose a minimal invasive change of the stabilizing controller to be also safe [17], [21]. However, those contributions lack the prediction capabilities in the formulation of the MPC formulation. Recent efforts considered unifying CBF with the traditional MPC formulation. A unified framework of MPC with CBF was introduced to control the Segway model [22]. In [23], the authors developed nonlinear MPC based on CBF for vehicle avoidance, however, no theoretical guarantee of closed-loop stability has been provided. MPC and CBF are organized as high-level planner and a low-level tracker in [24], and sufficient conditions which guarantee recursive constraint satisfaction for the closed-loop system were provided.
