# IV. PROPOSED SCHEME

The key feature of the obstacle avoidance control scheme is the safety constraints represented by the CBF. In [16], the authors proposed CBF $\mathcal H ( x )$ representing a safety metric as the distance between the moving object and the obstacle. The sufficient and necessary conditions for the safe maneuvers are based on the usage of class $\mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ function similar to Lyapunov functions such that $\mathcal { H } ( { x } , u ) \geq - \aleph ( \mathcal { H } ( { x } ) ) \Longleftrightarrow C$ is invariant. The proposed scheme makes use of the CBF concepts in the MPC formulation cascaded by DFL defined in (24). The motivation for using the cascaded scheme will be to unlock the usage of a linear MPC with all its merit compared to the nonlinear MPC in terms of computational cost and ease of stability guarantees. To formulate the MPC on the linear equivalent model rendered by the DFL is the mapping between the states and control inputs of the original nonlinear underactuated model of the unicycle and the linear equivalent the model needs to be presented.

Lemma 3. (Input and state mapping of MPC-DFL for Unicycle Model) Recall the Unicycle extended model dynamics in (23). Using the control input in (24), the optimization problem of the MPC in the cascaded scheme of MPC-DFL can be formulated on a linear equivalent model dynamics as $\dot { z } = A _ { z } z + B _ { z } \nu$ with the following state and input mapping:

$$z _ {1} = x _ {1}z _ {2} = \zeta \cos (x _ {3}) \tag {25}z _ {3} = x _ {2}z _ {4} = \zeta \sin (x _ {3})
\left[ \begin{array}{l} v _ {1} \\ v _ {2} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} \cos (x _ {3}) & - \zeta \sin (x _ {3}) \\ \sin (x _ {3}) & \zeta \cos (x _ {3}) \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} \mathcal {U} _ {1} \\ \mathcal {U} _ {2} \end{array} \right] \tag {26}
$$

Proof. Recall the extended dynamics in the new MIMO system are also affine similar to (2), where ${ \bar { f } } ( { \bar { x } } ) , { \bar { g } } _ { 1 } ( { \bar { x } } )$ , and $\bar { g _ { 2 } } ( \bar { x } )$ can be re-expressed as follows:

$$
\bar {f} (\bar {x}) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} \zeta \cos (x _ {3}) \\ \zeta \sin (x _ {3}) \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{array} \right], \bar {g} _ {1} (\bar {x}) = \left[ \begin{array}{l} 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{array} \right], \bar {g} _ {2} (\bar {x}) = \left[ \begin{array}{l} 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \end{array} \right]. \tag {27}
$$
