# 1 INTRODUCTION

The pursuit of sophisticated control strategies in robotics has been increasingly directed towards approaches that can effectively navigate the complexities and uncertainties inherent in real-world environments [1]. Traditional control methods often struggle with these dynamic and unpredictable aspects. This has led to a growing interest in learning-based control solutions, particularly Gaussian process (GP) learning-based model predictive control (GP-MPC) [2]. This method synergizes the probabilistic modeling capabilities of Gaussian processes (GPs) with the forward-looking computing and optimization features of model predictive control (MPC). The integration of GP into MPC frameworks introduces a probabilistic layer that adeptly manages uncertainties and improves the precision of future state prediction, a critical advantage in complex, real-world applications such as autonomous navigation and advanced robotics [3].

∗Corresponding author.

Authors’ addresses: Jie Wang, jwangjie@outlook.com, Concordia University, 1455 Blvd. De Maisonneuve Ouest, Montreal, QC, Canada, H3G 1M8; Youmin Zhang, ymzhang@encs.concordia.ca, Concordia University, 1455 Blvd. De Maisonneuve Ouest, Montreal, QC, Canada, H3G 1M8.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.

© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.

ACM 0360-0300/2024/4-ART

https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
