Unlike offline methods, a closed-loop adaptive feedforward term can be developed by deriving real-time DNN weight adaptation laws from a Lyapunov-based stability analysis. Various classical results [3]–[7] use Lyapunov-based techniques to develop weight adaptation laws, but only for single-hiddenlayer networks. These results do not provide weight adaptation laws for DNNs with more than one hidden layer, since there are mathematical challenges posed by the nested and nonlinear parameterization of a DNN that preclude the development of inner-layer weight adaptation laws. Recent results such as [8]– [10] develop Lyapunov-based adaptation laws for the outputlayer weights of a DNN. However, to update the inner-layer weights, results in [8]–[10] collect datasets over discrete timeperiods and iteratively identify the inner-layer weights using offline training algorithms. To circumvent offline identification of the inner-layer weights, the result in [11] provides a realtime inner-layer weight adaptation scheme based on a modular approach. However, modular designs only offer constraints on the adaptation laws and do not provide constructive insights on designing the adaptation laws.

Our recent work in [12] provides the first result on Lyapunov-derived weight adaptation laws for each layer of a DNN-based adaptive controller. To address the challenges posed by the nested and nonlinearly-parameterized structure of the DNN, a recursive representation of the DNN is developed. Then, a first-order Taylor series approximation is recursively applied for each layer. Using a Lyapunov-based stability analysis, the inner- and outer-layer weight adaptation laws are designed to cancel coupling terms that result from the approximation strategy. Although the result in [12] provides Lyapunov-derived weight adaptation laws for the DNN, the development is restricted to fully-connected DNNs.
