# 4 COMBINING GAUSSIAN PROCESSES WITH MODEL PREDICTIVE CONTROL

In Sec. 3, we demonstrated techniques for the efficient approximation of the system’s mean and uncertainty propagation. Building on this, this section introduces a straightforward yet fundamental application of GP within MPC, focusing on incorporating the GP means into the MPC prediction model and omitting uncertainty propagation. Through this focused simplification, we aim to underscore the GP model’s capability to enhance MPC’s predictive accuracy and overall control strategy effectiveness.

Integrating a GP component into the MPC framework transforms the MPC into a stochastic MPC (SMPC) problem [2]. This adaptation necessitates a structured approach to managing chance constraints, which involves setting maximum allowable probabilities for constraint violations. The formulation of this generalized stochastic optimal control problem is as follows:

$$\min _ {U} \mathbb {E} \left(\sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N - 1} J (x _ {k}, u _ {k})\right), \tag {29a}\text { s.t. } x _ {k + 1} = f \left(x _ {k}, u _ {k}\right) + B _ {d} \left(g \left(x _ {k}, u _ {k}\right) + w _ {k}\right), \tag {29b}\operatorname * {P r} \left(x _ {k + 1} \in \mathcal {X} _ {k + 1}\right) \geq p _ {x}, \tag {29c}\operatorname * {P r} \left(u _ {k} \in \mathcal {U} _ {k}\right) \geq p _ {u}, \tag {29d}x _ {0} = x (k). \tag {29e}$$

Here, $U = [ u _ { 0 } ( \cdot ) , \dots , u _ { N - 1 } ( \cdot ) ]$ denotes the control inputs across time intervals $i = [ 0 , \ldots , N - 1 ]$ . The optimization aims to minimize the expected sum of the cost function $J ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } )$ over the horizon ?? , subject to the system dynamics as the equality constraint (29b). The chance constraints (29c) and (29d) introduce inequality constraints, ensuring that system states and control inputs remain within predefined bounds $\chi _ { k + 1 }$ and $\mathcal { U } _ { k }$ with associated satisfaction probabilities $\scriptstyle { \mathcal { P } } x$ and $p _ { u } .$ , respectively, alongside the initial state condition (29e).
