# 1 Introduction

Neural networks have seen recent success in control tasks, particularly through reinforcement learning, due to their ability to express complex nonlinear behavior. Neural network controllers have been applied to control problems such as cart pole swing-up, walking, and moving multiple degree-of-freedom arms [10]. However, neural network controllers trained through standard reinforcement learning techniques suffer from sensitivity to inputs and may display unexpected behavior. Concerns about neural network controllers are accentuated in safety-critical applications. This has motivated research into safe neural network control, which focuses on acquiring formal guarantees for neural networks used in control applications, while still leveraging the expressiveness of neural networks.

Synthesis and verification of safe neural network con-

trollers have taken a variety of forms, differing in the knowledge of dynamical model they require and the type of constraints they impose. One class of methods focuses on properties of closed-loop systems involving neural networks, usually with the neural network being in the controller. References [28], [8], and [13] present methods to verify asymptotic stability or find an inner approximation to the region of attraction of a feedback system involving neural networks. Methods that synthesize neural network controllers and jointly certify closed-loop stability include [7], [24], and [9]. Reference [7] synthesizes a recurrent neural network while [24] and [9] leverage recent developments in implicit neural networks [4] [1] for more expressive and parameter-efficient controllers. These methods differ in the types of plants considered, with [24] considering linear time-invariant (LTI) plants, [9] considering LTI plants interconnected with sectorbounded uncertainties, and [7] considering LTI plants interconnected with more general uncertainty classes.

Some methods focus on controller properties that can be achieved with little to no knowledge of the plant model. References [20] and [23] use equivariant neural networks to impose symmetry relationships on the inputs and outputs of neural network controllers. References [6] and [14] explore minimizing the upper-bound on the Lipschitz constant of a neural network. This relates to the robustness of a neural network to variation in its inputs.
