# A. SOFT CONSTRAINTS METHODS

In this section, we give a brief overview of the literature related to SRL methods that adopt soft constraint, as defined in section I-B. We deliberately include such concise account for literature in this domain for completeness, but more detailed treatment of the literature can be found in [25] and [9].

One common characteristic in such methods is that there are no explicit guarantees on safety during training, but rather they encourage policies to achieve safety in the long run. For example, [32] makes the RL policy searching risk aware by augmenting the cost function with a probabilistic risk model, and permits low impact safety violations to learn this model so it prevents high impact violations.

Safety critics are presented in [67], where a pretraining phase aims to let a SAC agent explore unsafe states so it can train a safety critic and a policy, followed by a fine tuning phase where a new policy is trained while using the safety critic.

Several methods depend on using CMDPs as a way of introducing constraints [3, 71, 53] during policy construction. In [3] the authors present a method in which the cost function for policy optimization and the constraints are replaced with surrogate function based on upper bounds of objectives’ divergence under policy change (both for main and constraint costs), which ensures monotonic improvement of policy with respect to constraints. In [71] the CMDP based policy optimization is tackled using Lagrange relaxation to produce a penalized reward function that is then used to train a ”constrained” actor-critic, which converges to a policy that satisfies constraints.

In previous works safety is encoded somehow in costs or rewards, but a different approach is taken in [53] where safety is defined as eventual convergence of a measurement vector to a desired set. To this end, the authors use a game theoretic framework to produce a mixed strategy probability distribution over a set of policies, which eventually decreases the distance between long term reward vector and the safe set.
