An important consideration in safe neural network control is computational tractability of controller synthesis methods. A method used in [7] and [9] is to project the controller parameters to a safe set by solving a semidefinite program (SDP) after each reinforcement learning parameter update step. Reference [12] shows that barrier function methods can be used to convert training under SDP constraints into an unconstrained training problem. Reference [24] presents a controller synthesis method that can directly be used with unconstrained gradient-descent methods.

In this paper, we present a method to synthesize neural network controllers for a class of uncertain plants to guarantee closed-loop dissipativity. The closed-loop dissipativity specification enables, for example, certifying closed-loop stability, or a closed-loop L2 gain bound. The class of plants we consider consists of LTI systems interconnected with an uncertainty. The uncertainty can be used to describe a variety of behavior including unmodeled dynamics and nonlinearities such as saturation. These have been widely explored in the context of control with LTI controllers, using integral quadratic constraints (IQCs) to describe the uncertainty [11], and linear matrix inequality (LMI) optimization for computation [2]. For example, [21] addresses $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control of uncertain LTI systems and [25] further considers $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control of uncertain linear parameter varying systems, both using LTI controllers. Reference [22] gives a comprehensive overview of analysis of uncertain LTI systems using IQCs and LMIs, with examples focused on $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control.

We leverage recent work on the implicit neural network (or equilibrium network), a neural network model which encompasses common neural network architectures, including the fully connected feedforward network [4], to describe the neural network aspect of the controller. Conveniently for analysis, a controller with memory based on the implicit neural network can be modeled as an uncertain LTI system where the uncertainty consists of the nonlinearities of the neural network. Thus, in the context of literature on control of uncertain LTI systems with LTI controllers, we extend to the case where the controller, too, is an uncertain LTI system.
