$$\lambda (x - x _ {s p, i}) ^ {T} P (x - x _ {s p, i}) + (\lambda - 1) (x - x _ {s p, j}) ^ {T} P (x - x _ {s p, j}) \leq c \tag {10}$$

for $0 \leq \lambda \leq 1$ with $x _ { s p , i } \neq x _ { s p , j } .$ .

Proposition 3: Let us consider the ellipsoids $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , i } )$ and $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , j } )$ defined as in (6). The set of points x satisfying (10) for all $\lambda \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ is either empty, a single point, or an ellipsoid:

$$\hat {\mathcal {E}} _ {K _ {\lambda}} (m _ {\lambda}) = \left\{x \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}: (x - m _ {\lambda}) ^ {T} P ^ {- 1} (x - m _ {\lambda}) \leq K _ {\lambda} \right\} \tag {11}$$

where

$$m _ {\lambda} = \lambda x _ {s p, i} + (1 - \lambda) x _ {s p, j}K _ {\lambda} = 1 - \lambda (1 - \lambda) (x _ {s p, j} - x _ {s p, i}) ^ {T} P (x _ {s p, j} - x _ {s p, i}).$$

Proof: See [15].

Proposition 3 shows that if there is an ellipsoid violation, then the point $m _ { \lambda }$ belongs to the intersection Fig. 2b:

$$\mathcal {E} _ {c} (x _ {s p, i}) \cap \mathcal {E} _ {c} (x _ {s p, j}) \neq \emptyset \rightarrow m _ {\lambda} \in \mathcal {E} _ {c} (x _ {s p, i}) \cap \mathcal {E} _ {c} (x _ {s p, j})$$

Therefore, to test if the two ellipsoids intersect we need to find if there exists at least one point on the segment joining $x _ { s p , i }$ and $x _ { s p , j }$ that satisfies (10). To do so we consider both ellipsoids

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} (x - x _ {s p, i}) ^ {T} P (x - x _ {s p, i}) \leq \rho \\ (x - x _ {s p, j}) ^ {T} P (x - x _ {s p, j}) \leq \rho \end{array} \right. \tag {12}
$$

We replace x with $m _ { \lambda }$ since we are checking only a point in the segment joining the two setpoints. Defining $d \triangleq x _ { s p , j } - x _ { s p , i } ,$ , (12) can be rewritten as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{c} \lambda^ {2} d ^ {T} P d \leq \rho \\ (\lambda - 1) ^ {2} d ^ {T} P d \leq \rho \end{array} \right. \Rightarrow \left\{ \begin{array}{c} \lambda^ {2} \| d \| _ {P} ^ {2} \leq \rho \\ (\lambda - 1) ^ {2} \| d \| _ {P} ^ {2} \leq \rho \end{array} \right. \tag {13}
$$

Solving for λ we obtain

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \lambda^ {2} \leq \frac {c}{\| d \| _ {P} ^ {2}} \\ \lambda^ {2} \| d \| _ {P} ^ {2} - 2 \lambda \| d \| _ {P} ^ {2} + \| d \| _ {P} ^ {2} \leq c \end{array} \Rightarrow 1 - 2 \sqrt {\frac {c}{\| d \| _ {P} ^ {2}}} \leq 0 \right. \tag {14}
$$

The two ellipsoids $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , i } )$ and $\mathcal { E } _ { c } ( x _ { s p , j } )$ intersect if

$$2 \sqrt {\frac {c}{\| d \| _ {P} ^ {2}}} \geq 1 \rightarrow \| d \| _ {P} ^ {2} \leq 4 c \tag {15}$$
