The expansions of $\tilde { A } , \ldots , \tilde { D } _ { e d }$ can be found in $\mathrm { A p \mathrm { - } }$ pendix A.

Now, we swap w with ˜w using $w = D _ { \psi _ { 2 } } ^ { - 1 } \tilde { w } - D _ { \psi _ { 2 } } ^ { - 1 } C _ { \psi _ { 2 } } \psi _ { 2 }$ derived from equation (14), and eliminate the output v.

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\tilde {\boldsymbol {x}}} (t) \\ \tilde {\boldsymbol {v}} (t) \\ \boldsymbol {e} (t) \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} \tilde {A} & \tilde {B} _ {w} & \tilde {B} _ {d} \\ \tilde {C} _ {v} & \tilde {D} _ {v w} & \tilde {D} _ {v d} \\ \tilde {C} _ {e} & \tilde {D} _ {e w} & \tilde {D} _ {e d} \end{array} \right] T \left[ \begin{array}{l} \tilde {\boldsymbol {x}} (t) \\ \tilde {\boldsymbol {w}} (t) \\ \boldsymbol {d} (t) \end{array} \right] \tag {16}
\tilde {\boldsymbol {w}} (t) = \tilde {\Delta} (\tilde {\boldsymbol {v}}) (t)$$

where T is defined as follows.

$$
T \triangleq \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} I & 0 & 0 \\ \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & 0 & - D _ {\psi_ {2}} ^ {- 1} C _ {\psi_ {2}} \end{array} \right] & D _ {\psi_ {2}} ^ {- 1} & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & I \end{array} \right]
$$

The transformed system in (16) is an uncertain LTI system where the uncertainty ∆ satisfies a static IQC. ˜ Further, it is well-posed since (10) is well-posed and Ψ is both stable and has a stable proper inverse. Thus, Lemma 1 provides a dissipativity condition for the transformed system. We now relate dissipativity of the extended and transformed system satisfying a static IQC to dissipativity of the original system satisfying a dynamic IQC.

Lemma 2 Suppose there exist $P \succeq 0$ and $\lambda \geq 0$ that satisfy the condition in Lemma $1 ~ f o r$ the extended and transformed system in (16), with ∆˜ satisfying the static IQC defined by diag(I, −I). Then, the system defined in (10), with the uncertainty satisfying a dynamic IQC of the form (12), is dissipative with respect to the quadratic supply rate in (5).

PROOF. Suppose there exist $P \succeq 0$ and $\lambda \geq 0$ such that Lemma 1 is satisfied for the extended and transformed system in (16). Then, there exists a storage function S which certifies dissipativity of the extended and transformed system. This storage function also certifies dissipativity of the extended system in (15) since an initial condition $\tilde { x } _ { 0 }$ and disturbance signal d induce the same trajectory $( \tilde { x } , d , e )$ in both systems. Thus, $S$ certifies dissipativity of the original system (10) with state consisting of the plant state and the virtual filter state.
