There are several limitations associated with standard DNN architectures such as fully-connected and convolutional DNNs. Deeper networks typically suffer from the problem of vanishing or exploding gradients, i.e., the rate of learning using a gradient-based update rule is highly sensitive to the magnitude of DNN weights. Challenges faced from the vanishing or exploding gradient problem are ubiquitous to both offline training [13] and real-time weight adaptation [12]. Additionally, in applications such as image recognition, the performance of a DNN is found to initially improve by increasing the depth of the DNN. However, as the depth exceeds a threshold, performance rapidly degrades [14].

To overcome the vanishing or exploding gradient problem and the degradation of performance with the increasing depth of a DNN, results in [14] introduce shortcut connections across layers, i.e., a feedforward connection between layers that are separated by more than one layer. DNNs with a shortcut connection are known as deep residual neural networks (ResNets). Offline results in [15] and [16] offer mathematical explanations for why ResNets perform better than nonresidual DNNs. In [15], the parameterization of a non-residual DNN is shown to cause difficulties in training DNN layers to approximate the identity function. As explained in [15], for a DNN to achieve a good training accuracy, the DNN layers must be able to approximate the identity function well. Since a shortcut connection in ResNets is represented using an identity function, ResNets provide an improved performance when compared to non-residual DNNs. Additionally, the result in [16] provides explanations from Lyapunov stability theory on why ResNets are easier to train offline using the gradient descent algorithm as compared to non-residual DNNs. The shortcut connections in ResNets facilitate the stability of the equilibria of gradient descent dynamics for a larger set of step sizes or initial weights as compared to non-residual DNNs.
