previous contributions of Lyapunov-based predefined-time stability theorems for autonomous systems in the literature [5], [6], [13], [18], [19]. Particularly, not like the results in [6], which found that the predefined-time Lyapunov theorem could only be developed on the basis of a $\kappa _ { 1 }$ function. The results presented in this brief relax this constraint, and an arbitrary strictly monotonically bounded increasing or decreasing function can be allowed. Moreover, if the selected function is a strictly monotonically unbounded increasing or decreasing function, the predefined-time stability conclusion will degenerate into a finite-time stable solution. Hence, the finite-time stable corollary is derived, and it can cover the existing Lyapunov finite-time stability theorems in [20]–[22]. The proposed unified Lyapunov theorem is also employed in the design of a suite of nonsingular sliding mode controllers for Euler-Lagrange system, ensuring its predefined-time stability. Subsequently, the efficacy of the aforementioned properties is substantiated by Monte Carlo simulation examples. It provides a comprehensive exposition of the proposed controller’s behavior, specifically focusing on settling time illustration.

Notation: Throughout the article, the following notation are used. R is a set of real numbers. For $x \in \Re ^ { n } , x ^ { \top }$ denotes its transpose, $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { x } = \frac { d x } { d t } } \end{array}$ denotes the time derivative of $x \cdot$ . For a scalar function $h ( \boldsymbol { x } ) : \mathbb { \ R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { \ R } , e ^ { h ( \pmb { x } ) }$ represents a standard exponential function with a natural constant e as the base; $| h ( x ) |$ denotes the absolute value $h ( \boldsymbol { x } )$ . A function $P ( \chi ) : [ 0 , \infty )  [ 0 , a )$ is said to be a class $\kappa _ { a }$ function, if it is strictly increasing with $P ( 0 ) = 0$ .

Problem Statement: Consider the following autonomous system

$$\dot {\boldsymbol {x}} = \boldsymbol {f} (\boldsymbol {x}; \boldsymbol {u}) \tag {1}$$
