There have been some studies about the grid-connected point voltage oscillation phenomenon of wind turbines connected to weak grids. Reference [9] revealed two typical LVRT-dominated transient performances of distributed renewable energies, i.e., repeated LVRT and continuous LVRT, and repeated LVRT may cause voltage oscillations. Reference [10] explained the repeated LVRT problem within the monotone control theory framework, identifying the low post-fault voltage level as the direct cause of this problem. In [7] and [8], the mechanism of repeated LVRT-caused voltage oscillations was elucidated. When the voltage drops below the LVRT threshold, the wind turbine will work under the LVRT condition, prioritizing reactive power compensation while reducing the active power output. The voltage will rise through the reactive power priority control, until the wind turbine returns to normal operation. If this cycle keeps repeating, the gridconnected point voltage oscillation will occur. Reference [11] indicated that reactive power control switching and reactive power recovery strategies are the roots of repeated voltage fluctuations. Furthermore, an optimal control strategy of LVRT was also proposed to achieve fast and stable voltage recovery. As analyzed in [12], the voltage oscillation phenomenon corresponds to high output excited low voltage ride-through control induced non-smooth bifurcation (HLINB), and the critical criterion of HLINB was given based on the secondorder cone algorithm.

The aforementioned research [7]–[12] is still based on steady-state power flow calculation and static voltage stability limit analysis, employing the active power-voltage (P-V) curve to illustrate the voltage oscillation phenomenon. However, power flow equations are algebraic and only reflect the distribution of source and load power injections in the grid [13], [14], thus attributing voltage oscillations to repeated wind power fluctuations. Therefore, the above mechanisms cannot accurately capture the dynamic evolution of grid-connected point voltage, current, and power when the wind turbine repeatedly enters and exits LVRT. It is necessary to consider the internal differential control dynamics of the wind turbine, which can account for its dynamic behavior and stability during the repeated LVRT process.
