Lyapunov theory, an effective instrument for analyzing the stability of control systems, is often combined with sliding mode control, backstepping control, and adding power integrator technique to design controllers to ensure the closed-loop control system’s finite-time [8], fixed-time [9], [10], and predefined-time stability [11], [12]. Particularly, the sliding mode controller is usually closed-loop in the control system to obtain predefined-time stability [12]–[14]. As detailed in [15]–[17], some specific instantiations of the predefinedtime controller were formulated to achieve the control requirements of second-order systems featuring uncertainties, but challenges related to singularity were encountered. To overcome this mentioned drawback, the alternative nonsingular predefined-time sliding mode controllers were presented in [12], [14], [18]. The aforementioned controllers, designed using different Lyapunov-based theorems, are applied to many systems and exhibit predefined-time stability properties. In fact, by analyzing them, a unified Lyapunov theorem that covers existing Lyapunov theorems can be derived and ensures autonomous systems’s predefined-time stability equally.

This brief advances unified sufficient conditions for the predefinedtime/finite-time stability of autonomous systems using Lyapunov theory. The main contributions are stated as follows: a unified Lyapunov theorem is proposed to guarantee a class of dynamic systems to exhibit predefined-time stability. It serves to consolidate and unify the Bing Xiao, Haichao Zhang, and Shijie Zhao are with the School of Automation, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an 710072, China. Lu Cao is with the National Innovation Institute of Defense Technology, Chinese Academy of Military Science, Beijing 100071, China. (Email: xiaobing@nwpu.edu.cn; zhanghaichao@mail.nwpu.edu.cn; zhaoshijie@mail.nwpu.edu.cn; caolu space2015@163.com).

Corresponding author: Bing Xiao.
