# IV. SIMULATIONS

Monte Carlo simulations are provided to demonstrate the performance of the developed ResNet-based adaptive controller, and the results are compared with a fully-connected DNN-based adaptive controller [12]. The system in (3) is considered with the state dimension $n = 1 0 .$ The unknown drift vector field in (3) is modeled as $f ( x ) = A y ( x )$ , where $A \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times 6 n }$ is a random matrix with all elements belonging to the uniform random distribution $U ( 0 , 0 . 1 )$ , and $\begin{array} { r } { y ( x ) \overset { \beth } { \triangleq } [ x ^ { T } , \operatorname { t a n h } ( x ) ^ { T } , \sin ( x ) ^ { T } , \operatorname { s e c h } ( x ) ^ { T } , ( x \odot x ) ^ { T } , ( x \odot z ) ] } \end{array}$ ${ \dot { x } } \odot x ) ^ { T } ] ^ { \bar { T } }$ , where ⊙ denotes the element-wise product operator. All elements of the initial state $x ( 0 )$ are selected from the distribution $U ( 0 , 2 )$ . The reference trajectory is selected as $x _ { d } ( t ) = [ 0 . 5 + \sin ( \omega _ { 1 } t ) , \ldots , 0 . 5 + \sin ( \omega _ { n } t ) ]$ , where $\omega _ { 1 } , \ldots , \omega _ { n } \sim U ( 0 , 2 0 )$ . The configuration of the ResNet in (6) is selected with 20 hidden layers, a shortcut connection across each hidden layer, and 10 neurons in each layer. The hyperbolic tangent activation function is used in each node of the ResNet. The results are compared with an equivalent fully-connected DNN-based adaptive control, i.e., the same configuration as the ResNet but without shortcut connections. The control and adaptation gains are selected as $\sigma _ { e } \ = \ 2 .$ , $\sigma _ { s } = 2$ , and $\Gamma = I _ { { \Sigma } _ { p = 1 } ^ { m } { \Sigma } _ { j = 0 } ^ { k _ { p } } L _ { p , j } L _ { p , j + 1 } } .$

The performance of both the ResNet and the fullyconnected DNN-based adaptive controller is sensitive to initial weights. To account for the sensitivity of performance to weight initialization, the initial weights for each method are obtained using a Monte Carlo method. In the Monte Carlo method, 10,000 simulations are performed, where the initial weights in each simulation are selected from $U ( - 0 . 0 5 , 0 . 0 5 )$ , and the cost $\begin{array} { r } { J = \int _ { 0 } ^ { 1 0 } \left( e ^ { T } ( t ) Q e ( t ) + u ^ { T } ( t ) R u ( t ) \right) } \end{array}$  dt is evaluated in each simulation with $Q = I _ { 1 0 }$ and $R = 0 . 0 1 I _ { 1 0 }$ . For a fair comparison between the ResNet and the fully-connected DNN, the simulation results yielding the least J for each architecture are compared.
