# I. INTRODUCTION

Deep Neural Network (DNN)-based controllers have emerged as a tool to compensate for unstructured uncertainties in nonlinear dynamical systems. The success of DNN-based controllers is powered by the ability of a DNN to approximate any continuous function over a compact domain [1]. A popular DNN-based control method is to first perform a DNNbased offline system identification using sampled input-output datasets that are collected by conducting experiments [2, Sec. 6.6]. Then, using the identified DNN, a feedforward term is constructed to compensate for uncertainty in the system. However, the DNN weight estimates are not updated during task execution, and hence, such an approach involves static implementation of the DNN-based feedforward term. Since there is no continued learning with most DNN methods, questions arise regarding how well the training dataset matches the actual uncertainties in the system and the value or quality of the static feedforward model. This strategy motivates the desire for a large training dataset, but such data can be expensive or impossible to obtain, including the need for higher order derivatives that are typically not measurable.

The authors are with the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville FL 32611-6250 USA. Email: {patilomkarsudhir, ledan50, emilygriffis00, wdixon}@ufl.edu.

This research is supported in part by Office of Naval Research Grant N00014-21-1-2481, AFOSR award number FA8651-21-F-1027, and FA9550- 19-1-0169. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the sponsoring agency.
