where $0 < T \ll 1$ indicates the sample time, and $v _ { k } ^ { \mathbf { n _ { a } } }$ and $\operatorname { a c c } _ { k } ^ { \mathbf { n } _ { \mathrm { a } } }$ denote the velocity and acceleration of $A ^ { \mathbf { n _ { a } } }$ (shown in Fig. 10) respectively. AVs are assumed to be deterministic, with their states measured and communicated error-free, i.e., $\Sigma ( v _ { k } ^ { \mathbf { n } _ { \mathbf { a } } } ) = 0$ . By applying (60b), the HV model is derived as follows:

$$\tilde {v} _ {k} ^ {H} = v _ {k} ^ {H} + d (v _ {k - 1} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}}), \tag {62a}p _ {k + 1} ^ {H} = p _ {k} ^ {H} + T \tilde {v} _ {k} ^ {H},= p _ {k} ^ {H} + T v _ {k} ^ {H} + T d (v _ {k - 1} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}}). \tag {62b}$$

In this model, $\tilde { v } _ { k } ^ { H }$ is the GP-enhanced HV velocity prediction, where $v _ { k } ^ { H }$ is the nominal velocity (computed using (59b)), and $p _ { k } ^ { H }$ is the position state. Using (62b) and (25a), the propagation of the HV position mean can then be derived as:

$$\mu \left(p _ {k + 1} ^ {H}\right) = \mu \left(p _ {k} ^ {H}\right) + T \mu \left(v _ {k} ^ {H}\right) + T \mu^ {d} \left(v _ {k - 1} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}}\right). \tag {63a}$$

Denoting $\mu \left( \boldsymbol { p } _ { k + 1 } ^ { H } \right)$ as $\mu _ { k + 1 } ^ { p ^ { H } }$ and rewriting other terms similarly, (63a) is expressed more compactly as:

$$\mu_ {k + 1} ^ {p ^ {H}} = \mu_ {k} ^ {p ^ {H}} + T v _ {k} ^ {H} + T \mu^ {d} \left(v _ {k - 1} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}}\right), \tag {63b}$$

with the initial value $\boldsymbol { \mu _ { 0 } ^ { p ^ { H } } } = \boldsymbol { p _ { k } ^ { H } }$ . Using (62b) and (27), the propagation of the HV position variance is derived as:

$$\Sigma \left(p _ {k + 1} ^ {H}\right) = \Sigma (p _ {k} ^ {H}) + T ^ {2} \Sigma^ {d} \left(v _ {k - 1} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}}\right). \tag {64a}$$

Similarly, this can be compactly written as:

$$\Sigma_ {k + 1} ^ {p ^ {H}} = \Sigma_ {k} ^ {p ^ {H}} + T ^ {2} \Sigma^ {d} \left(v _ {k - 1} ^ {H}, v _ {k - 1} ^ {N _ {a}}\right). \tag {64b}$$

with Σ????0 = $\boldsymbol { \Sigma _ { 0 } ^ { p } } ^ { H } = 0$ , this equation allows for the tracking of the HV position variance, which is vital for ensuring safety in mixed platooning scenarios. It is important to note that in this model, covariances between $p _ { k } ^ { H }$ and ?? ???? a $v _ { k } ^ { H }$ re not considered during the HV uncertainty propagation.
