Expanding upon the same concern in a decentralized multi-robot context, [28] integrates the assessment of individual model uncertainty through GP models. This ensures that each robot can ensure safety with a high level of confidence. The formulation of safe controllers involves solving a QP problem, constrained by decentralized robust CBF conditions, guided by the GP uncertainty estimates. Another strategy involves acquiring knowledge about the attraction region directly for nonlinear systems. For example, the methodology presented in [6] relies on non-parametric Bayesian frameworks like GP and Bayesian Optimization to assess and broaden the safe set.

3) Using CBF priors: One main feature of basic CBFs is the fact that they are myopic in nature, meaning that they only care about enforcing safety regardless of mission execution. Additionally, the extent of the safe set to which the system states are confined is implicitly implied by the choice of CBF candidates, which might be too conservative and not reflect a potentially bigger true safe set of states.

To that end, several methods exist in the literature that aim to enhance the system performance and feasibility [24, 50], as well as finding CBF candidate with expanded safe sets [41, 15]. The main idea behind these methods is to start by some known CBF with some tunable factors, which are trained using different ML techniques to achieve the aforementioned goals.

The authors of [74] suggest a learning-enabled method for developing local CBFs to ensure the safety of diverse nonlinear hybrid dynamical systems. Their goal is to tackle the curse of dimensionality in high-dimensional systems. In their approach, they contemplate the incorporation of both safe and unsafe system configurations when updating the CBF. The CBF is directly adjusted based on the dynamically computed new unsafe set using dynamic programming and is employed to guide hybrid systems.
