# A. CBF CONSTRUCTED WITH MACHINE LEARNING METHODS

1) RL based methods: Different ML can be used to design and infer CBFs from data. One such popular direction is via using RL. For example, the method from [75] uses inverse RL, which originally infers a reward function from data. An expert provides demonstration data for safe and unsafe actions, and a CBF is constructed as a neural network. Loss functions are designed to mimic the behavior of an actual CBF, and the minimization of which leads to a CBF that can discriminate between safe and unsafe sets.

In a fashion similar to [75], the framework from [56] constructs a CBF through proper use of adequate loss functions that enforce properties of a CBF. However, it differs from [75] in that instead of using explicit expert demonstrations as input data, it collects data from system rollouts using the current policy from the recent episode, then updates the policy and recollect data,i.e., it adopts an on-policy training strategy. Moreover, it applies methods for rendering observations quantity and permutation invariant, and it adopts a setup inspired from a CBF-QP framework [5] to refine the policy.

The work in [18] aims to learn CLBFs, which are functions similar to CBFs, albeit with different properties that ensure both safety and tracking simultaneously. The method is based on modifying the Bellman equation of the state value function such that it respects properties of a CLBF. The core idea is to learn the state value function under CLBF constraints and find the policy according to that function. The learned policy is used as a critic in an actor-critic setting.

In [62] the authors use the RL value function to construct a CBF and directly incorporates safety in rewards. The rewards are only given at the end of an episode, however, this implies that the agent cannot learn from intermediate failures and successes.
