# 4 Controller Synthesis

In this section we present a procedure to synthesize a neural network controller that, in feedback with the plant in (1), guarantees closed-loop dissipativity, and maximizes a reward. First, we derive a matrix inequality that is equivalent to that used in Lemma 1 but is affine in variables corresponding to the controller variables, storage function, and controller nonlinearity IQC multiplier. Second, we present a constrained reinforcement learning procedure to train the controller to maximize reward, while using the dissipativity LMI to ensure dissipativity.

This controller synthesis problem can be posed as finding the controller K that solves the optimization problem

$$K ^ {*} = \arg \max _ {K} \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} r (x (t), u (t)) d t \right]$$

s.t. K makes closed-loop dissipative K is of the form in (3),

where the expectation is taken over a distribution of disturbance signals and of initial plant states. This is the typical statement of a reinforcement learning problem [19] with the addition of the dissipativity constraint. The expected reward is maximized over disturbances and initial plant states seen during training, subject to the controller satisfying a dissipativity constraint.

We now begin developing the closed-loop dissipativity condition to apply to the controller. Following the result of Lemma 2, we assume in this section that the plant has been extended and transformed such that it is in the form of (1) where $\Delta _ { p }$ satisfies a static IQC. We form the closed-loop system of the plant and controller:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\boldsymbol {x}} (t) \\ \boldsymbol {v} (t) \\ \boldsymbol {e} (t) \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} A & B _ {w} & B _ {d} \\ C _ {v} & D _ {v w} & D _ {v d} \\ C _ {e} & D _ {e w} & D _ {e d} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} \boldsymbol {x} (t) \\ \boldsymbol {w} (t) \\ \boldsymbol {d} (t) \end{array} \right] \tag {17}
\boldsymbol {w} (t) = \Delta (\boldsymbol {v}) (t),$$
