# 5.2 Flexible Rod on a Cart

In this example we consider a flexible rod on a cart (see Figure 5 for a diagram). This consists of a movable cart with a metal rod fixed on top and a mass at the top of the rod. Unlike the typical cart pole setup, there is no joint at the base of the rod. However, the rod is flexible, so the horizontal position of the top and bottom of the rod can differ. Training is conducted with the higher-fidelity flexible model (26) below, but $L _ { 2 }$ gain constraints (where applied) are formulated with respect to a simplified model where the rod is rigid, allowing some uncertainty. We compare the Dissipative RINN, Standard RINN, LTI, and fully connected neural network controllers on a reward function that rewards a combination of the state of the flexible rod on a cart being close to 0 and of the control effort being small.

The true dynamics, with the flexible rod, are taken as:

$$
\dot {\boldsymbol {x}} _ {\boldsymbol {f}} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & I \\ - M ^ {- 1} K & - M ^ {- 1} B \end{array} \right] \boldsymbol {x} _ {\boldsymbol {f}} (t) + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ M ^ {- 1} [ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array} ] \end{array} \right] \boldsymbol {u} (t)

\boldsymbol {y} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 \end{array} \right] \boldsymbol {x} _ {\boldsymbol {f}} (t)

M = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} m _ {b} + m _ {r} + \rho L & m _ {t} + \frac {\rho L}{3} \\ m _ {t} + \frac {\rho L}{3} & m _ {t} + \frac {\rho L}{5} \end{array} \right]

K = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & 0 \\ 0 & \frac {4 E I}{L ^ {3}} \end{array} \right]

B = \left[ \begin{array}{l l} 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0. 9 \end{array} \right] \tag {26}
$$

where $x _ { f } = \left[ x _ { b } \ h \ \dot { x _ { b } } \ \dot { h } \right] ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 4 }$ is the state of the flexible rod on a cart, $x _ { b }$ is the position of the base of the rod, h is the horizontal deviation of the top of the rod from the base of the rod, $m _ { b } = 1$ kg is the mass of the base, $m _ { t } = 0 . 1$ kg is the mass of an object at the top of the rod, $L = 1$ m is the length of the rod, $\rho = 0 . 1 \ \bar { \mathrm { N } } / \mathrm { m }$ is the mass density of the rod, $r = 1 0 ^ { - 2 }$ m is the radius of the rod cross-section, $E = 2 0 0 \cdot 1 0 ^ { - 9 }$ GPa is the Young’s modulus of steel, and $\begin{array} { r } { I = \frac { \pi } { 4 } r ^ { 4 } \mathrm { ~ m } ^ { 4 } } \end{array}$ is the area second moment of inertia. The output y represents the measurement of the position of the tip of the rod.
