# C. Challenges and limitations

Herein, we provide a brief discussion of challenges in the field of safe RL in the light of the discussions presented so far, as well as potential opportunities for future research.

1) Effect of sim2real gap on safety: Throughout this study we notice that most of the development of safe RL policies takes place mostly in simulated environments, much like normal RL. The inevitable mismatch between simulation models and real environments can be a source of several issues regarding the applicability and validity of safe RL policies.

Some popular solutions that we can find in the literature to deal with this issue include domain randomization [57] and optimization of simulator parameters [33]. However, there are few works, e.g. [26], that deal with certification of safe RL policies during deployment in a fashion that takes into account this reality gap. The certification we find in literature is mostly during training in the context of hard/probabilistic constraints. There are few attempts to tackle this issue (safety certification during deployment) in the context of soft constraints, e.g. [27], but not for more strict constraints.

Regular safety filtration, using robust and adaptive CBF methods for example, can be used as an external safety layer applied to the output of the policy. However, such methods can be arbitrarily conservative in a manner that does not match the conservativeness during training, which can affect the overall performance. We think that this aspect of safety certification of RL methods during deployment could be a future direction of research.

2) Generalizability and zero shot performance: It is worth mentioning that one important aspect that can asses the overall quality of safe RL policies is their zeroshot performance, i.e. the validity of RL policies when deployed in different simulated environment from the one used during training. We notice that few works consider this aspect of assessment. Some of the few examples that give some insight to zero shot [38, 55] performance include [22]
