# C. Contributions and Structure

The proposed solution minimizes the above-identified literature gaps by formulating MPC using CBF to control the nonlinear model of two-wheeled differential robots. The safety constraint gets activated everywhere not only when the vehicle is near an obstacle as in the case of the usage of Euclidean norms as a constraint. The CBF will provide the notion of the global forward invariance of the safe set, in other words, the robot will avoid the obstacle even if it is far from it leading to a shorter prediction horizon. Unlike the majority of the existing mobile robots collision avoidance literature, our solution considers the full nonlinear underactuated model. To address the system nonlinearities and the computational complexity arising from the nonlinear MPC, we introduce a solution that integrates a cascaded scheme of DFL with MPC unlocking the benefits of linear MPC as opposed to nonlinear MPC. The contributions of this work can be summarized as follows:

1) A cascaded scheme of DFL and MPC is proposed to address the nonlinear MPC computational complexity due to the intrinsic nonlinearity of the robot.   
2) The mapping between the original nonlinear underactuated model and the linear equivalent model (the MPC-CBF formulation is designed on the linear equivalent model rendered by the DFL) is presented. Combining MPC-CBF and DFL into a single scheme allows us to convert the obstacle avoidance of the full model of Unicycle to a Quadratic Constraint Quadratic Programming (QCQP) Problem that can be solved efficiently by offthe-shelf solvers.   
3) Closed loop stability, recursive feasibility and computational complexity of the proposed scheme are analyzed, and numerical simulations for a standard safe navigation task of a two-wheeled differential drive robot are carried out demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.

The remaining part of the paper is organized as follows. Section II presents preliminaries, mathematical notation, and problem formulation. A brief description of the linear equivalence model is discussed in Section III. Section IV demonstrates the proposed control scheme. Section V illustrates the effectiveness of the proposed scheme through numerical simulations. Finally, Section VI concludes the work.
