The authors of [68] created a framework that constructs a CBF based on LiDAR data. The information on the environment retrieved by the LiDAR outlines the set of safe and unsafe samples. The CBF is synthesize as a two hidden layer Gaussian Kernel neural network, the first being a kernel machine and the second a SVM. The work in [77] presents a distributed framework for safe multi-agent scenarios. They introduce the Graph Control Barrier Function framework denoted GCBF+, utilizing graph neural networks (GNNs) to parameterize a candidate GCBF. To enable goal-reaching behavior, a goal node and edges between each agent and their respective goal are incorporated into the input features. Training involves minimizing the sum of the CBF loss for both the GCBF and the distributed controller. Alternative methodologies [27, 21, 78] often grapple with a conflicting reward-penalty framework, primarily because, in unsafe scenarios, the backup or nominal policy override the optimal one, leading to suboptimal behavior. However, in this case, their [77] loss formulation integrates both safety and optimization within a unified policy, effectively sidestepping the trade-off dilemma between collision avoidance and goal reaching.

Safety critics could be used to construct CBF-like functions from expert demonstrations to endow RL policies with safety on the long run [52]. Such methods have relatively simple structure and allows for easy labeling of demonstration data, however, they are vulnerable to getting stuck in local minima during the policy optimization phase as discussed in section III-A.

2) Learning CBF from demonstrations: Another set of popular techniques for CBF construction is through learning from demonstrations. The work in [60] introduces a method for estimating a set of ZCBFs, each modeled as a linear combination of states, from incoming training data. This framework adopts a method of incrementally clustering input points into subsets of unsafe states, then fits a number of ZCBFs for each of these clusters, and uses these fitted functions to enforce safety on the system.

In [58] the CBF is synthesized by learning from a dataset of safe and unsafe trajectories. Given the set of expert trajectories, data points are extracted such that state-action pairs present safe behaviors from demonstrations and with those points a safe set is learned.
