In this paper, we provide sufficient conditions for an uncertain LTI system to be dissipative when the uncertainty is described by integral quadratic constraints. We leverage these conditions in deriving sufficient convex conditions for the feedback system of a neural network controller and an uncertain LTI system to be dissipative. We present a procedure to train a neural network controller to maximize a reward function while guaranteeing a dissipativity condition. We demonstrate the benefits of our proposed controller in simulated examples on an inverted pendulum and on a flexible rod on a cart. Compared to [7], this paper considers a wider class of controllers, which has been shown in [9] to be more parameter-efficient. Compared to [24], which considers LTI plants, and [9], which considers LTI plants with sector-bounded nonlinearities, this paper considers a broader class of plants, allowing LTI plants interconnected with uncertainties described with quadratic constraints, static IQCs, or a class of dynamic IQCs. Additionally, while [7], [9], and [24] consider stability or exponential stability, this paper presents a formulation for closed-loop dissipativity, which encompasses stability.

The rest of this paper is structured as follows. In Section 2, the plant and controller models are presented, and characterizations of uncertainty and performance requirements are given. In Section 3, a condition for verifying dissipativity is presented. In Section 4, a convex condition equivalent to the one in Section 3 is derived, and a procedure for synthesizing a controller using reinforcement learning and linear matrix inequalities is presented. In Section 5, the controller synthesis procedure is demonstrated in simulated examples on an inverted pendulum and a flexible rod on a cart.
