It has been well-recognized that real-time implementation of nonlinear MPC is subject to computational complexity when compared to Linear MPC (LMPC) schemes. $\mathrm { \ A p p l y - }$ ing MPC on a linear dynamical model with quadratic cost, functions renders the optimization problem to be a quadratic program which usually leads to a fast online solution. To implement the nonlinear MPC in real time, at each sampling instant, a nonlinear open-loop optimal control problem has to be solved within strict time constraints. Violation of the time constraints could degrade the output performance and/or stability measures [25] and thereby fast nonlinear MPC techniques are studied by many researchers for instance see [26]– [28]. Several robotic applications consider feedback linearization techniques. The work in [29] introduced DFL for the Multi-Input Multi-Output (MIMO) system, where the system can be modified to an equivalence linear model consisting of a chain of integrators under a feedback controller and a proper change of coordinates. A linear equivalence model has been derived for unicycle robots [4] and car-like robots [22]. The linear equivalence model unlocks the possibility of applying MPC on a linear model instead of a nonlinear one. In [30], a coupled MPC with an Input/Output Feedback Linearization (IOFL) approach illustrated improvement in the thermal power plant economic and dynamic output performance with fast real-time implementation. MPC cascaded with Feedback linearization has been developed for the fully-actuated spacecraft attitude model [31]. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, the cascaded scheme of MPC and feedback linearization with obstacle avoidance tailored to the application of differential drive robots has not yet been addressed.
