where $\pmb { x } \in \Re ^ { n }$ is the system state and $\pmb { u } \in \Re ^ { m }$ stands for the control input. $\scriptstyle { \mathbf { { \vec { x } } } } _ { 0 }$ is the system initial state. The origin ${ \pmb x } \equiv { \bf 0 }$ is the unique equilibrium of system (1). $f : \Re ^ { n } \times \Re ^ { m } \to \Re ^ { n }$ denotes a smooth vector field function. The objective is to give a unified Lyapunov stability theorem to guarantee the predefined-time stability of the system (1). Further, with the application of this theorem, design a nonsingular sliding mode control framework to guarantee an Euler-Lagrange system’s predefined-time stability.

as $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { x } = - \frac { 1 } { 2 p T _ { c } } e ^ { V ^ { p } } \dot { V } ^ { - p } x } \end{array}$ predefined-time stable system with the Lyapunov function $V = { \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 2 } } x ^ { 2 }$ $0 < p < 1$ , and $T _ { c } > 0$ being the predefined time constant. Taking the time derivative of V satisfies $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { d \mathbf { \hat { V } } } { d t } = - \frac { 1 } { p T _ { c } } e ^ { V ^ { p } } V ^ { 1 - p } < 0 } \end{array}$ , ∀ x 6= p Tc 0. Intuitively, the system is asymptotically stable, due to the fact $e ^ { V ^ { p } } > 0$ always holds. Then, we compute its convergence time. The ivative of V is rewritten as  is a bounded increasing fun $\begin{array} { r } { { \frac { { \dot { d } } \psi ( V ) } { d t } } = - { \frac { 1 } { T _ { c } } } } \end{array}$ $\psi ( V ) =$ $2 - e ^ { - V ^ { p } }$ $\psi ( V ) \in [ 1 , 2 )$ literature [6], the strict constraint of the function $\psi ( V ) \in [ 0 , 1 )$ being a $\kappa _ { 1 }$ function is required. Therefore, ψ(V ) will decrease to the minimum $\psi _ { T } = 1$ from its arbitrary initial value $\psi ( V _ { 0 } ) < 2 \quad$ . Then, integrating both sides $\textstyle d \psi ( V ) = - { \frac { 1 } { T _ { c } } } d t$ yields $\begin{array} { l } { { \int _ { \psi ( V _ { 0 } ) } ^ { \psi _ { T } } 1 d \psi = } } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { - \int _ { 0 } ^ { T } \frac { 1 } { T _ { c } } d t . } \end{array}$ , and simplifying it, one obtains $T = \left( \psi ( V _ { 0 } ) - \psi _ { T } \right) T _ { c } <$ $T _ { c }$ . It is proved that $T \geq T _ { c }$ is valid for any ψ(V0) decreases to the minimum of ψ(V ). The Lyapunov candidate V also converges to zero simultaneously. The selected V is radially unbounded. For any initial system state $x _ { 0 } ,$ , it can converge to the equilibrium when $T \geq T _ { c }$ .
