Our preliminary work in [21] and this paper provide the first result on Lyapunov-derived adaptation laws for the weights of each layer of a ResNet-based adaptive controller for uncertain nonlinear systems.
To overcome the mathematical challenges posed by the residual network architecture, the ResNet is expressed as a composition of building blocks that involve a shortcut connection across a fully-connected DNN.
Then, a constructive Lyapunov-based approach is provided to derive weight adaptation laws for the ResNet using the gradient of each DNN building block.
A nonsmooth Lyapunov-based analysis is provided to guarantee asymptotic tracking error convergence.
Unlike our preliminary work in [21], which involved a ResNet with only one shortcut connection, this paper provides weight adaptation laws for a general ResNet that has an arbitrary number of shortcut connections.
The development of adaptation laws for ResNets with an arbitrary number of shortcut connections is challenging due to the complexity of the architecture.
This challenge is addressed by constructing a recursive representation of the ResNet which involves a composition of an arbitrary number of building blocks.
Then, based on the recursive representation of the ResNet architecture, a first-order Taylor series approximation is applied, which is then utilized to yield the Lyapunovbased adaptation laws.
Additionally, unlike our preliminary work in [21] which did not provide simulations, this paper provides comparative Monte Carlo simulations to demonstrate the performance of the developed ResNet-based adaptive controller, and the results are compared with an equivalent fully-connected DNN-based adaptive controller [12].
Since the performance of ResNet and DNN-based adaptive controllers is sensitive to weight initialization, the Monte Carlo approach is used to provide a fair comparison between the two architectures.
In the Monte Carlo comparison, 10,000 simulations are performed, where the initial weights in each simulation are selected from a uniform random distribution, and a cost function is evaluated for each simulation.
Then, the simulation results yielding the least cost for both architectures are compared.
