# 8.2 Analysis of UAV control performance:

Figure 9(b) gives the UAV 3D flight trajectory comparison. Figures 10∼12 show the UAV flight trajectories, the tracking errors and the controller outputs in the three directions, respectively: Figure 10 describes the control performance in x-direction; Figure 11 shows the control performance in y-direction; and Figure 12 presents the height control performance in z-direction. From the error outputs, the position errors were within 0.04m, and the velocity errors were within 0.2m/s.

The position $( x , y , z )$ of the UAV was controlled to track the reference $\left( x _ { d } \left( t \right) , y _ { d } \left( t \right) , z _ { d } \left( t \right) \right)$ . From the position trajectory outputs in Figures 10∼12, the smooth and accurate trajectory tracking was achieved with almost no chattering and no overshoot. Even in the presence of time-varying disturbance (i.e., the crosswind from a swinging electric fan), the position and velocity tracking errors remained very small, and there was no overshoot. In addition, by reading the program, we found that although the reference trajectory jumped at the 6th second, the control system re-made the range judgement and the initial value partitioning, and the control parameters were updated at this moment. The UAV remained in the safe flight status throughout the flight.

In this indoor flight test, the bounded time-varying crosswind was generated by a swinging electric fan. Because the up-bound of disturbance was within a certain range, the influence of disturbance was rejected sufficiently by the proposed controller. The experimental environment and test equipment are shown in [30]. Since the proposed control method only requires that the magnitude of disturbance is within a given range, and it is unrelated to other aspects of the disturbance. For the outdoor flight tests, as long as the magnitude of outdoor wind is within the required range, this control method will be equally effective in suppressing the disturbance.
