Sliding mode is also widely used in many industrial applications due to its strong robustness against the bounded stochastic disturbances or uncertainties, especially for aircraft navigation and control: the robust controller [14], the robust observer [15], and the signal corrector [16]. However, chattering in sliding mode affects its output performance, and overshoot is inevitable for the usual sliding mode control systems. Some methods were proposed to reduce overshoot and chattering, and keep the robustness property of sliding mode control [17, 18, 19, 20]. In [17], for the systems with the parameter uncertainties and the matched disturbances, an adaptive sliding mode was designed to create the non-overshooting responses over the selected output variables. In [18], a cascade sliding mode-PID control was presented to get the non-overshooting time responses for a step reference. In [19, 20], for a linear time-invariant systems with the matched disturbance, the integral sliding mode technique along with the Moore’s eigenstructure assignment was used to make the system stable with non-overshooting behavior. For the above methods, not only the upper bound of disturbance should be known, but also the upper bound information of disturbance derivatives is required. For some cases, the non-overshooting controllers with the observers were presented for the systems with the disturbances [21, 22]. The observers were designed to estimate the disturbances, and the estimations were used for the non-overshooting stabilization. However, only the step reference was considered, and the disturbance was assumed to be constant. Furthermore, the overshoot may exist in the estimation from the observer, and the non-overshooting control performance is affected adversely.
