For PID control, if the large initial error of system output variable exist, then a relatively large long-time overshoot may happen due to the integrator windup. PID control can only completely reject the effect of constant disturbance and make $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } e ( t ) = 0$ and $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } \dot { e } ( t ) = 0 .$ . In addition, for a time-varying disturbance, PID control can only make the system approximately stable. Even the parameter regulation methods are used to implement the non-overshooting stabilization, the disturbance is still assumed to be constant. If disturbance is fast time-varying, then the control performance becomes worse, and the overshoot and oscillations deteriorate.

Lemma 2.2 (PI desired stable system with unknown constant disturbance): For system

$$\dot {e} (t) = - k _ {p} e (t) - k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau + d \tag {11}$$

where, d is any unknown constant disturbance, if $k _ { p }$ and $k _ { i }$ are selected to make the real parts of all the roots of the characteristic equation $s ^ { 2 } + k _ { p } s + k _ { i } = 0$ negative, then system is exponentially stable, and

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} e (t) = 0, \text { and } \lim _ {t \to \infty} k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau = d \tag {12}$$

The proof of Lemma 2.2 is presented in Appendix. 

Remark 2.3: Ideally, PI controller is used for the control of a first-order system with unknown constant disturbance. For the first-order system of error form

$$\dot {e} (t) = - g (t) - u (t) + d \tag {13}$$

the system (11) is selected as the desired stable system. We select the right sides of (11) and (13) equal, i.e.,

$$- g (t) - u (t) + d = - k _ {p} e (t) - k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau + d \tag {14}$$

Then, solving the equality (14), the disturbance d is canceled out, and we get the controller:

$$u (t) = k _ {p} e (t) + k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau - g (t) \tag {15}$$

From (74), the closed-loop error system is a second-order system, the combination of two roots of $s ^ { 2 } + k _ { p } s + k _ { i } = 0$ determines the stability and transient process, and sometimes overshooting response happens. Furthermore, due to the integral windup, the overshoot happens. Strictly, PI control can only reject the effect of constant disturbance and make $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } e ( t ) = 0$ . For a time-varying disturbance, PI control can only make the system approximately stable.
