# Remark 5.4 (Parameters regulation of the controller ):

1) The parameter selection conditions (42) and (43) (i.e., (47) and (48)) make the system nonovershooting stable.   
2) $k _ { c } > L _ { d } . \mathrm { ~ I f ~ } | e _ { 2 } ( 0 ) |$ is large, $k _ { c }$ should increase to reduce $| e _ { 2 } \left( t \right) |$ effectively.   
2) $k _ { 1 }$ determines the convergence rate of linear convergence law ${ \dot { e } } _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = - k _ { 1 } e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ ; from (54), $k _ { 1 }$ also determines the filtering frequency band of the sliding mode. Therefore, $k _ { 1 }$ should not be too small to keep a convergence rate of linear convergence law; and $k _ { 1 }$ should not be too large to get a suitable frequency band for noise rejection.   
3) $k _ { 2 }$ determines the convergence rate of the second subsystem; $k _ { 2 }$ also keeps the signs of sliding function $\sigma \left( t \right) = e _ { 2 } \left( t \right) + k _ { 1 } e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ and sliding variable $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ unchanged for $t \in [ t _ { c } , \infty )$ ; also, $k _ { 1 }$ affects the selection of $k _ { 2 }$ .   
4) Because $| e _ { 1 } \left( t _ { c } \right) | = e _ { 1 c }$ and $| e _ { 2 } \left( t _ { c } \right) | = e _ { 2 c }$ when $t = t _ { c } .$ , the selection of $e _ { 1 c } \in ( 0 , k _ { 2 M } - L _ { d } )$ and $e _ { 2 c } \in \left( e _ { 1 c } , \sqrt { \left( k _ { 2 M } - L _ { d } \right) e _ { 1 c } } \right|$ makes $\begin{array} { r } { | e _ { 1 } ( t _ { c } ) | , | e _ { 2 } ( t _ { c } ) | , \frac { | e _ { 2 } ( t _ { c } ) | } { | e _ { 1 } ( t _ { c } ) | } } \end{array}$ and $\frac { e _ { 2 } ^ { 2 } ( t _ { c } ) } { 2 | e _ { 1 } ( t _ { c } ) | }$ are all bounded. Then, the bounded $k _ { 1 }$ and $k _ { 2 }$ are determined from (47) and (48).   
5) The selection of $\rho$ from (49) affects the smoothness of system variables and controller output. Also, from (45), $\rho$ affects the control precision. Therefore, the selection of $\rho$ should balance the smoothness of variables and controller and the precision of control performance.
