# References

Kavosh Asadi, Dipendra Misra, and Michael L. Littman. Lipschitz continuity in model-based reinforcement learning, 2018.   
Julian Berberich, Carsten W. Scherer, and Frank Allgower. Combining prior knowledge and data ¨ for robust controller design. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 68(8):4618–4633, 2023. doi: 10.1109/TAC.2022.3209342.   
Luke Bhan, Yuanyuan Shi, and Miroslav Krstic. Neural operators for bypassing gain and control computations in PDE backstepping. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pages 1–16, 2023a. doi: 10.1109/TAC.2023.3347499.   
Luke Bhan, Yuanyuan Shi, and Miroslav Krstic. Operator learning for nonlinear adaptive control. In Proceedings of The 5th Annual Learning for Dynamics and Control Conference (L4DC), volume 211 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 346–357. PMLR, 15–16 Jun 2023b.   
Yuexin Bian, Xiaohan Fu, Rajesh K Gupta, and Yuanyuan Shi. Ventilation and temperature control for energy-efficient and healthy buildings: A differentiable pde approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08996, 2024.   
Lukas Brunke, Melissa Greeff, Adam W Hall, Zhaocong Yuan, Siqi Zhou, Jacopo Panerati, and Angela P Schoellig. Safe learning in robotics: From learning-based control to safe reinforcement learning. Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 5:411–444, 2022.   
Xin Chen, Guannan Qu, Yujie Tang, Steven Low, and Na Li. Reinforcement learning for selective key applications in power systems: Recent advances and future challenges. IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 13(4):2935–2958, 2022.
