# 1 Introduction

A cyber-physical system (CPS) is a collection of computing devices that interact with the physical world, through sensors and actuators, and with one another, through communication networks. Applications of the CPS paradigm include industrial control processes, smart power grids, wireless sensor networks, electric ground vehicles and cooperative driving technologies.

The distributed nature of CPSs is ambivalent in terms of security: on the one hand, it is more resilient to faults with respect to centralized systems; on the other hand, it is exposed to adversaries, either in terms of physical access to sensors or cyber access to data transmission networks. Examples range from non-invasive spoofing physical attacks, as illustrated by [17], to cyber attacks to SCADA systems as done by the Stuxnet worm; see [11]. Since CPSs act on the physical world, cyber-physical attacks layer may yield serious consequences to physical processes and to human beings, which makes the security problem very critical.

In the last decade, a substantial work has focused on the security of CPSs. A relevant research line considers the problem of secure state estimation (SSE) for CPSs in the presence of sensor attacks, that inject false data to manipulate the measurements. As a matter of fact, a malicious injection perturbs the data as a noise. However, we expect that an adversary conceives an unpredictable intrusion, that is, we have no information on its dynamics, boundedness and probabilistic description. The unique realistic assumption on sensor attacks is sparsity: only a relatively small number of sensors is accessible, due to, e.g., large dimensionality, physical deployment and sensor heterogeneity of CPSs.
