# 3.3.1. Type I: No Subsequent Observations After Step 0

We first consider the case where all information we obtain from the environment is $o _ { 0 }$ and $w _ { 0 } , w _ { 1 } , . . . , w _ { N }$ , which means that there are no subsequent observations after step 0. This type is commonly used when the process of obtaining the observation or forecasting is expensive, e.g., the observation is obtained in a pay-per-use way, or the initial forecasting computation takes a long time. At step 0, given a predictor $\mathcal { P } _ { \cdot }$ , our belief $\bar { W } _ { b } = \mathcal { P } ( o ( s ) )$ is determined by the observation $o ( s )$ . We denote this belief at step 0 as $\bar { W } _ { b , 0 }$ . At step 1, even though no new observation of $O _ { 1 }$ is available, $w _ { 1 }$ is still measured so the forecasted belief can be updated according to the value of $w _ { 1 }$ . This update is essentially computing a conditional probability given the original belief $\bar { W } _ { b , 0 }$ and $w _ { 1 }$ . In some context, this is also called a filtration process. The filtration is repeated at every step. We denote the updated belief at step k as $\bar { W } _ { b , k }$ . The filtration update is

$$\bar {W} _ {b, k} = f _ {W _ {I}} \left(\bar {W} _ {b, k - 1}, w _ {k}\right). \tag {13}$$

Each new belief contains the information of the probability distribution of the disturbance sequence from the current step to the terminal step, as shown in Fig. 4 (a).

Given a belief $\bar { W } _ { b }$ , the optimal policy $\pi _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \cdot )$ minimizes the expected cost defined in (4). The policy $\pi _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \cdot )$ can be obtained as a feedback control using all available information at each step. All available information includes the history of the measured state x and the measured generalized disturbance w. Since (1) tells us that when w and u are given, x is Markovian. We can use the current $x _ { k }$ in the feedback, instead of using all the history of x. In general, the generalized disturbance w is not Markovian. Actually it can be considered as the output of a partially observable Markov decision process. Therefore, we need to include the history of w in the control feedback. However, when the belief update is just a filtration, even if $w _ { k }$ is not Markovian, $\bar { W } _ { b , k }$ is Markovian. Therefore, we can use $\bar { W } _ { b , k }$ in the feedback, instead of the history of w with the belief $\bar { W } _ { b }$ . The optimal policy $\pi _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \cdot )$ can be computed
