In this paper, we consider CPSs described by discrete-time (DT) linear time-invariant (LTI) dynamical systems, with sparse sensor attacks. The identification of the attack support, i.e., the subset of tampered sensors, is a combinatorial problem, which does not scale well for large dimensional systems. However, by leveraging the sparsity assumption, one can exploit ℓ1-based sparsity-promoting decoders to recast the problem into constrained convex optimization; see, e.g., [5, 16]. Since these approaches are still computationally intense, [19] introduce a faster event-triggered projected gradient (ETPG) approach, whose structure is prone to recursive SSE. The provided sufficient conditions for the convergence of ETPG are quite restrictive. [18] address this issue by a satisfiability modulo theory approach, called Imhotep-SMT, which returns the exact solution in short time for problems of small/medium dimensions. However, Imhotep-SMT is combinatorial, thus critical for large-scale problems.

In this paper, we propose a different approach to SSE of CPSs under sparse sensor attacks, based on Lasso; see [20]. Specifically, we define a Lasso formulation and we analyse its effectiveness.

The proposed Lasso-based model builds on $\ell _ { 1 }$ relaxation, but, differently from [5, 16], it gives rise to an unconstrained optimization problem, which can be solved through low-complex recursive algorithms. By elaborating on this point, the second contribution of the paper is a recursive SSE method exploiting new data as soon as they become available, with the final aim of performing online SSE. More precisely, we design a sparsity-promoting Luenberger-like observer by starting from the iterative soft thresholding algorithm for Lasso.

Finally, we propose numerical experiments that show the effectiveness of the proposed methods with respect to the state-of-the-art approaches, in terms of estimation accuracy and execution time.

We organize the paper as follows. In Sec. 2, we state the problem and we illustrate the background. In Sec. 3, we introduce the proposed Lasso approach and we theoretically analyse it. In Sec. 4, we extend the method to recursive and online SSE, by developing a state observer. Finally, we devote Sec. 5 to numerical experiments and we draw some conclusions in Sec. 6.
