The rationality of the proposed non-overshooting sliding mode controller in this paper incudes: 1) The structure of the two successive subsystems, which have the non-overshooting reachability and the non-overshooting stability respectively, can achieve global non-overshooting stability; 2) The initial value partitioning of the second subsystem is to determine the analytical expressions for the sliding variables, so that the conditions on non-overshooting stability can be obtained; 3) The sliding mode gains can be assigned to completely eliminate the influence of bounded stochastic disturbance. The advantages of the proposed method are: 1) the robust and global non-overshooting stability even in the presence of bounded stochastic disturbance; 2) no restriction on the system initial values; 3) the bounded and smoothed controller to be easily performed by the actuators.

For flight control, for example, spacecraft, hypersonic vehicle or UAV control, sliding mode control plays an important role [27,28,29]. However, overshoot or oscillations exist for the traditional sliding mode control methods. In the high-speed or high-maneuverability flight conditions, overshoot or oscillations in attitude control may affect the flight performance and cause the safety issues. In fact, at a supersonic flying speed, the angles of attack of the aerodynamic surfaces are usually very small. The overshoot of the system output will cause these angles of attack large and irregular, resulting in the unstable flight. Therefore, the non-overshooting control is necessary for these aircrafts to implement the safe and maneuvering flight. The robust non-overshooting control proposed in this paper can overcome the overshoot issue, and the strict non-overshooting stability can be achieved even in the presence of bounded stochastic disturbance or system uncertainty. Importantly, the bounded-gain and smoothed sliding controller is fit for many actuators.
