# 4.1. Just Being Accurate Is Not Enough

An accurate predictor means that when the predictor says the probability distribution of $\bar { w }$ is $\bar { W } _ { b }$ , the distribution is indeed $\bar { W } _ { b }$ . However, just being accurate is not good enough for predictors. To show this, we will define it rigorously first.

Definition 3 (Maximum Indistinguishable Observation Set). Give a predictor P and a belief $\bar { W } _ { b }$ , the maximum indistinguishable observation set $O _ { M }$ , is the set of all observations based on which the prediction output is $\hat { W } _ { b }$ ,

$$O _ {M} = \{o | \mathcal {P} (o) = \bar {W} _ {b} \}. \tag {20}$$

Definition 4 (Accurate). A predictor $\mathcal { P }$ is accurate over an observation set O if belief $\bar { W } _ { b } = \mathcal { P } ( o _ { i } )$ generated by this predictor over any observation $o _ { i } \in \mathbb { O }$ , equals the probability distribution of $\bar { w } ( S )$ conditioned on $o ( S ) \in O _ { M }$ , where $O _ { M }$ is the maximum indistinguishable observation set of P and $\bar { W } _ { b }$ .

This definition means that if we collect all realized disturbance sequence data for any fixed belief from an accurate predictor, the collected data distribution will match this belief. Simply being accurate does not mean a good predictor. For example, a blind predictor is a predictor that generates the same belief for all observations. An accurate blind predictor does not use any information from the observation o, yet it offers accurate beliefs. It is accurate, but not very informative.
