# 4 Sparse soft observer for online SSE

In this section, we move towards recursive, online SSE. We consider Problem 1 in a dynamic perspective: we aim at estimating the current state, or a delayed version, using the last $p \tau$ measurements, and, at each k we include the new measurements and we discard the oldest ones. If $\tau = 1$ , this an online (not delayed) SSE. This calls for fast recursive online algorithms.

[19] address this problem by developing a recursive version of ETPG, named ETPL. At time $k ,$ instead of running ETPG to convergence to estimate $x ( k - \tau + 1 )$ , ETPL runs some steps of the algorithm, then it moves to step $k + 1$ and it takes new measurements, in the philosophy of a Luenberger observer. As an alternative, we develop an online version of ISTA, that we name sparse soft observer and that we summarize in Alg. 1. We use the following notation: $\mathbf { a } ( k ) = ( a ( k - \tau + 1 ) ^ { \top } , \dots , a ( k ) ^ { \top } ) ^ { \top }$ , $\mathbf { y } ( k ) = ( y ( k - \tau + 1 ) ^ { \top } , \dots , y ( k ) ^ { \top } ) ^ { \top }$ .

The basic idea is to run one ISTA step, as described in Sec. 3, at each time instant k. Then, we update the estimate of the state by leveraging the knowledge of A, as in Luenberger observer. Step 3. in $\mathrm { A l g . }$ 1 can be repeated more than one time to enhance the estimation, but we do not run the complete algorithm to converge to the Lasso solution. Moreover, in case of online estimation, i.e., $\tau = 1$ , the current p measurements are expected to be insufficient to have a successful Lasso; therefore, the observer approach is necessary.
