PID control is very popular for many industrial control systems because of its simplicity and its acceptable control performance [4, 5]. However, PID control has some disadvantages, for example: sensitive to the disturbance and uncertainty types, adverse effect by the time-variant references, overshoot existence because of integral windup or integration saturation. Theoretically, PID control can completely reject the effect from an unknown constant disturbance because of the integration term. If the disturbance is slowly time-varying, through increasing the control gains, the disturbance effect can be reduced to some extent. For a fast time-varying disturbance or nonlinear system uncertainty, PID control performance is affected obviously. In addition, PID control is usually used to control a system with step reference for good performance. If the time-variant reference is required, the feedforward term including reference derivatives information should be added in the PID controller. For PID or PI control, the large initial error may bring the phenomenon of integral windup, and a relatively long-time overshoot exits in the system output. There are some methods to reduce overshoot in system output: the pole-placement or pole-zero configuration methods [6, 7], the optimization approach to minimize overshoot [8], the compensation-based method [9, 10], the characteristic ratio assignment method [11], the iterative technique based on gradient descentlike procedure [12], the eigenvector placement technique to construct an invariant set [13]. They are mainly used for the step reference non-overshooting tracking in the linear systems. However, they still cannot overcome the effect from the time-varying disturbances or nonlinear system uncertainties, and these time-varying disturbances may bring overshoot or oscillations in the system outputs.
