# 3.1 Configuration of robust non-overshooting 2-sliding mode with global stability

Before we present the design of non-overshooting control for a class of uncertain systems, we create a desired non-overshooting 2-sliding mode system. Non-overshooting stability requires that the system gain depends on the initial values of the system variables. When the initial value amplitudes are large, the system gain also becomes large. In order to achieve the global nonovershooting stability and the bounded system gain, the 2-sliding mode consists of two successive subsystems. The first subsystem with non-overshooting reachability enables the sliding variables to reach a given bounded range. This range boundary serves as the initial condition of the second subsystem and makes the determined system gain bounded. The second subsystem has the property of local non-overshooting stability, such that the sliding variables converge to zero, and no overshoot exists for the first sliding variable. The flow chart of 2-sliding mode is shown in Fig.1(a).

The configuration of non-overshooting 2-sliding mode with two subsystems is expressed by

$$\dot {e} _ {1} (t) = e _ {2} (t)
\dot {e} _ {2} (t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} f _ {1} \left[ e _ {1} (t), e _ {2} (t) + e _ {2 c} \operatorname{sign} \left(e _ {1} (t)\right) \right] + d (t), \text {if} | e _ {1} (t) | > e _ {1 c}; \\ f _ {2} \left[ e _ {1} (t), e _ {2} (t) \right] + d (t), \text {if} | e _ {1} (t) | \leq e _ {1 c} \end{array} \right. \tag {16}
$$

where, the gains of functions $f _ { 1 } \left[ \cdot \right]$ and $f _ { 2 } \left[ \cdot \right]$ are bounded; $d ( t )$ is the bounded disturbance; $e _ { 1 c } > 0$ and $e _ { 2 c } > 0$ make the system gains bounded. The sliding variables $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ and $e _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ experience the following convergence process:

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l}e _ {1} (t) \text {   reaches   } e _ {1 c} \operatorname{sign} \left(e _ {1} (t)\right) \text {   without   overshoot   and   } e _ {2} (t) \rightarrow - e _ {2 c} \operatorname{sign} \left(e _ {1} (t)\right), \text {   if   } | e _ {1} (t) | > e _ {1 c}\\e _ {1} (t) \rightarrow 0 \text {   without   overshoot   and   } e _ {2} (t) \rightarrow 0, \text {   if   } | e _ {1} (t) | \leq e _ {1 c}\end{array}\right. \tag {17}
$$

The convergence process of sliding variables is shown in Fig.1(b):
