In many predictive optimal control applications, the future to be predicted has intrinsic uncertainties[12]. The to-be-predicted generalized disturbance may be future human maneuvers or ambient factors such as the temperature[13][14]. The future values of these signals are uncertain at the time of the forecast. In practice, the prediction results may be in either stochastic or deterministic forms[15]. Many applications simply use deterministic predictions as it is easier to compute its corresponding optimal solution[16]. With more data and higher computing power, probabilistic forecast, also called stochastic prediction, is drawing more and more attentions from the control community. Probabilistic forecast has been used in applications such as weather forecast[17]. Different measures for evaluating stochastic predictions have been developed [18][19]. There are techniques in Bayesian decision theory[20] [21] and stochastic MPC [22][23] utilizing a stochastic prediction for decision-making and control.

Since predictive optimal control has shown good performance, naturally, we are interested in investigating how we should design predictors and improve predictors. One important question is whether we can decouple the predictor design and the control system design. In practice, we sometimes put a lot of efforts into improving the predictor, and hope this can lead to better predictive optimal control performance. In this paper, the control performance is measured by the cost function defined in the optimal control. When we try to improve the control by improving the prediction, the underlying assumption is that there is a monotonic relationship (like the one shown in Fig.1 (a)) between the predictor error and the optimal control cost. However, in literatures, this assumption is rarely verified. Actually, as we will show in this paper, the relation between the predictor and the optimal control performance is complicated. Our theoretical analysis and numerical examples show that the relationship can be like Fig.1 (b), which means as the predictor improves, the optimal control cost may get worse.
