# 4.3. 2D Navier-Stokes PDEs

We consider the 2D in-compressible Navier-Stokes equations as the third benchmark control task,

$$\nabla \cdot \boldsymbol {u} = 0, \tag {14a}\frac {\partial \boldsymbol {u}}{\partial t} + \boldsymbol {u} \cdot \nabla \boldsymbol {u} = - \frac {1}{\rho} \nabla p + \nu \nabla^ {2} \boldsymbol {u} \tag {14b}$$

With slight abuse of notation, we denote the spatial variable (in 2D) as $\pmb { x } = ( x , y ) \in \mathcal { X } = [ 0 , 1 ] \times$ [0, 1], and $\pmb { u } = ( u , v ) : \mathcal { X } \times \mathcal { T }  \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ represents 2D velocity field, ν is the kinematic viscosity of the fluid, $\rho$ is the fluid density, and $p$ is the pressure field. Navier-Stokes equation is fundamental in fluid dynamics with extensive applications including aerodynamic design, pollution modeling, and wind turbine flows Jameson et al. (1998); Li et al. (2021). For the experiments, we consider boundary control along the top boundary as $\pmb { u } ( x , 0 , t ) = U ( x , t ) , \forall x \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ . All other boundary conditions are Dirichlet boundary conditions where the velocity is set to be 0. The task here is to find boundary control $\boldsymbol { U } ( \boldsymbol { x } , t )$ such that the resulting velocity field is close to the reference trajectory given in both desired velocity field ${ \pmb u } _ { r e f } ( { \pmb x } , t )$ and desired actions $U _ { r e f } ( x , t )$ .

Model-based optimization-based control. We provide an optimization-based controller based on Pyta et al. (2015) as the model-based control baseline.

$$
\begin{array}{l} \min _ {U (x, t)} J (U (\cdot , t), \boldsymbol {u}) = \frac {1}{2} \int_ {\mathcal {T}} \int_ {\mathcal {X}} \| \boldsymbol {u} (\boldsymbol {x}, t) - \boldsymbol {u} _ {r e f} (\boldsymbol {x}, t) \| ^ {2} d \boldsymbol {x} d t \\ + \frac {\gamma}{2} \int_ {\mathcal {T}} \| U (\cdot , t) - U _ {r e f} (\cdot , t) \| ^ {2} d t \tag {15a} \\ \end{array}
\text { s.t. } \quad (1 4 a), (1 4 b), \quad \boldsymbol {u} (x, 0, t) = U (x, t), \forall x \in [ 0, 1 ]. \tag {15b}$$

To ensure computational tractability, the control actions are set to be the tangential, uniform velocity, i.e., $u ( x , 0 , t ) = U ( t ) , v ( x , 0 , t ) = 0$ , followed in Pyta et al. (2015). The optimal control actions are obtained by solving the PDE-constrained optimization problem presented in (15). This solution employs Lagrange multipliers, utilizing the adjoint method McNamara et al. (2004); Gunzburger (2002) for gradient computation of the Lagrangian function.
