With the advancement of artificial intelligence technology, neural networks (NNs) are increasingly employed in the control of DC-DC converters to facilitate the adjustment of dynamic parameters. Lai [15] designed a neural network-based DC-DC analog-digital converter for underwater solar charging. Liu [16] designed a datamining-based hardware-efficient neural network controller for DC–DC switching converters. Rojas-Dueñas [17] designed a wavelet convolutional neural network-based black-box model of a DC-DC converter to improve system performance. Deep neural networks (DNNs) are an important branch of neural networks, and although extensive research has been carried out on DNN-based optimal control of nonlinear systems [18- 20], their applications in DC-DC converters are still rarely reported.

In this paper, the research focuses on the buck-type DC-DC switching power supply, with the introduction of DNN alongside the sliding mode control strategy. This integration enables the learning of the control strategy's output and facilitates online parameter adjustment. The entire process is controlled with digital precision, and the stability of the control strategy is validated using the Lyapunov function. Based on the simulation and experimental results, the DNN-based sliding mode control buck-type DC-DC converter designed in this paper consistently meets expectations in terms of output voltage, interference immunity, chattering, and convergence speed, even under varying load or input voltage conditions.
