in the variables $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , a \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \tau }$ . Nevertheless, since $( \mathcal { O } \quad I ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \tau , n + p \tau }$ , the system is inherently underdetermined. However, by taking into account the sparsity of a, we can exploit the compressed sensing theory to find a sparse solution to (3); see, e.g., [6]. Some works assume that the attack support is time-invariant, with cardinality $s \ll p , \mathrm { i . e . , } \widetilde { a }$ is block-sparse. In particular, [5] exploit an $\ell _ { 1 } / \ell _ { r }$ norm approach for block-sparse signal recovery, while [19] develop a block-based hard thresholding algorithm, that alternates gradient descent and event-triggered projection onto $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { S } _ { s } .$ , where $\mathbb { S } _ { s } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { p \tau }$ is the set of block s-sparse vectors.

We remark that equation (3) has a unique solution in $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { S } _ { s }$ if and only if the CPS defined in (1) is 2s-sparse observable, that is, by removing any subset of 2s sensors, the attack-free system remains observable; see, e.g., [19, Theorem 3.2]. In other terms, 2s-sparse observability is equivalent to the injectivity of the map $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { S } _ { s } \mapsto \mathbb { R } ^ { p \tau }$ defined as $f ( x , a ) = \mathcal { O } x + a$ . This condition is necessary condition for secure state estimation, independently from the estimation algorithm.

If on the one hand the prior information on the block-sparsity pattern of a can improve the state estimation, on the other hand it ties the solution to constant attack supports and it originates more complex recovery algorithms. For these motivations, in this work we propose a sparse optimization approach that neglects the possible block-sparsity.

Beyond the seminal contributions briefly described in this section, we remark that substantial recent work addresses specific aspects of SSE of CPSs of the kind (1). For example, [14] and [13] develop decomposition techniques, [22] propose a data-driven approach; [12, 15] focus on distributed algorithms for SSE.
