# 2.1. The Optimal Control Problem

We consider the following discrete-time dynamic system

$$x _ {k + 1} = f (x _ {k}, w _ {k}, u _ {k}), \tag {1}$$

where $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { n } } , \ w \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { l } }$ , and $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { m } }$ . The state $x _ { k }$ and the generalized disturbance $w _ { k }$ can be directly measured at step k. w is usually considered as the output of a complex system, which is called the environment. $u _ { k }$ is the control input.

This dynamic system represents the physical system to be controlled, such as a vehicle, a robot, a machine, or a building. The measured generalized disturbance w may be the human input such as the pedal position and steering of the vehicle, or the ambient factors such as surrounding traffic behavior or the temperature. We assume that w has a relatively large impact on the dynamics and the cost. Therefore, when we design the control u, we want to consider the impact of w.

We consider a finite-horizon problem of N steps. The cost J in this finite horizon is the sum of running costs from step 0 to step $N - 1$ and the terminal cost,

$$J (x _ {0}, w _ {0}, u _ {0}, \dots , x _ {N - 1}, w _ {N - 1}, u _ {n - 1}, x _ {N})= \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N - 1} l _ {k} (x _ {k}, w _ {k}, u _ {k}) + l _ {N} (x _ {N}). \tag {2}$$

The goal is to find a policy $u = \pi ( \cdot )$ to minimize the cost J.

If the complete disturbance sequence $\hat { w } = [ w _ { 0 } , w _ { 1 } , . . . , w _ { N - 1 } ]$ (the brackets here mean an ordered sequence) is known at step 0, the problem can be solved as a deterministic optimal control problem. Many tools such as dynamic programming and Pontryagin’s minimum principle can be used to solve it.

However, in practice we usually do not know $\bar { w }$ in advance. In our problem, $w _ { k }$ is unknown before step k. If we do not know the future values of $w$ , we can no longer simply apply the deterministic optimal control. Instead, we can consider this sequence ¯w as a stochastic signal. It can be represented by a random matrix of dimension $l \times N$ , or equivalently, a random vector of dimension $l N$ .

The control objective is to find a feedback policy $u \ : = \ : \pi ( \cdot )$ that uses available information to minimize the cost, or more rigorously, a certain expectation of the cost. In the context of optimal control in this paper, better control performance means a smaller cost expectation.
