# $4 . 4 . 1 .$ . One-Time Prediction Performance Measures

We consider two types of measures: the error-based measures, and the probability-based measures. Given a realized disturbance sequence $\bar { w } \in \bar { \pmb w }$ and a belief $\bar { W } _ { b } \in \bar { W }$ , the one-time prediction performance measure is in the form of m : $\bar { \pmb w } \times \bar { \pmb W }  \mathbb { R }$ . If m satisfies that

$$m (\bar {w}, \bar {W} _ {b}) \geq 0, \text { for all } \bar {w} \text { and } \bar {W} _ {b}, \tag {22}$$

and

$$m (\bar {w}, \bar {W} _ {b}) = 0 \text { if } \hat {\mathbb {P}} _ {\bar {W} _ {b}} (\bar {w}) = 1, \tag {23}$$

where $\hat { \mathbb P } _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \bar { w } )$ means the probability of $\bar { w }$ in the belief $\hat { W } _ { b } .$ , we say m is an error-based measure. Furthermore, when $m ( \bar { w } , \bar { W } _ { b } ) = 0$ only if $\hat { \mathbb { P } } _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \bar { w } ) = 1$ , this error measure is called a strict one-time prediction error measure. With a slight abuse of notation, we write $\bar { W } _ { b } = \bar { w } \mathrm { i f } \ \hat { \mathbb P } _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \bar { w } ) = 1$ . Then $\bar { W } _ { b } = \bar { w }$ minimizes any error-based measure $m ( { \bar { w } } , \cdot )$ by definition.

Here are two examples of error-based measures: the expected mean squared error (MSE), and the regret. The commonly-used MSE,

$$M (\bar {w}, \bar {W} _ {b}) = \underset {\bar {w} _ {b} \sim \bar {W} _ {b}} {\hat {\mathbb {E}}} \| \bar {w} - \bar {w} _ {b} \| _ {2} ^ {2}, \tag {24}$$

is a strict one-time prediction error measure. The expectation here is the subjective expectation with respect to the belief $\bar { W } _ { b }$ . The regret

$$R (\bar {w}, \bar {W} _ {b}) = J _ {\bar {w}} ^ {\pi_ {\bar {W} _ {b}}} - J _ {\bar {w}} ^ {\pi_ {\bar {w}}}, \tag {25}$$

is a non-strict one-time prediction error measure. It is defined as the difference between the optimal cost with the predicted belief, and the optimal cost with the a posteriori disturbance sequence. Computing the regret is usually much more difficult than computing the MSE, as it involves solving a stochastic optimal control problem. It is essentially evaluating the control performance of a specific dynamic system with this prediction, instead of evaluating the prediction alone.

Besides the error measures, we may also use a probability-based measure such as the log-likelihood,
