In this paper, for a class of uncertain systems, a method of globally exponentially stable control without overshoot is proposed. The design of control law is based on a global non-overshooting 2-sliding mode of error form. Non-overshooting stability requires that the system gains depend on the initial values of system variables, making the system locally stable. In order to achieve the global non-overshooting stability and avoid the excessively large system gains, the 2-sliding mode consists of two bounded-gain subsystems. The implementation of global non-overshooting stability is through the successive connection of the first subsystem with non-overshooting reachability and the second subsystem with locally non-overshooting stability. The first subsystem enables the sliding variables to reach a given bounded range without overshoot within a finite time. The boundary of this range serves as the initial values for the second subsystem. Through partitioning these initial values, the sliding variables are analytically expressed, and in each zone, the bounded system parameters are determined to achieve the non-overshooting stability. For the second subsystem, the sliding variables are attracted without overshoot onto a non-overshooting sliding surface (i.e., the sliding variables are made to satisfy a linear non-overshooting convergence law). Thus, the sliding variables converge exponentially to zero, and there is no overshoot for the first sliding variable. The influence of the bounded stochastic disturbance or uncertainty is rejected completely due to the sliding mode gain coverage. The disturbance or uncertainty is only required to be bounded. Also, the 2-sliding mode can separate the measurement noise from the sliding variables, and it makes the variables smoothed. To implement the trajectory non-overshooting tracking, it is only required that the second-order derivative of reference trajectory is bounded. In order to reject the chattering in the controller output, a tanh-function-based sliding mode is developed to get the smoothed non-overshooting controller.
