In this work, we develop a benchmarking suite for learning-based boundary control of PDEs. Boundary control of PDEs is of elevated importance compared to control across the full domain as many real world problems cannot control the PDE across the entire domain, but only at the boundary input. Thus, boundary control is physically more realistic as the actuation and sensing are generally non-intrusive Krstic and Smyshlyaev (2008b). For example, in fluid flows, the engineer only gets control access to the surrounding walls containing the fluid Di Meglio et al. (2012) or in temperature manufacturing Bian et al. (2024), the engineer is typically unable to set the temperature of entire plate, but only a specific edge. Furthermore, boundary control is extremely powerful in modeling macro-level traffic congestion Huan Yu (2023) as modern highways typically only enable actuation and sensing at the on/off ramps. Lastly, we briefly mention that boundary control is one of the only approaches to handle chemical and combustion processes Izadi et al. (2015) and moving boundary problems such as the Stefan Problem with applications to both 3D printing Koga and Krstic (2020) and the excitation of neuron growth for abating neurological diseases such as Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s Demir et al. (2024). However, for a majority of these applications, each researcher typically develops their own simulations and thus there is no standard library with a universal set of problems to test new algorithms. Furthermore, for even the standard model-based algorithms such as PDE backstepping, it is challenging to implement the control algorithm as this typically requires the solution of a separate Goursat PDE Vazquez et al. (2023). Thus, in this work, we introduce the first library containing a set of general PDE control problems and implementations of their corresponding model-based control algorithms that can be easily modified to fit the wide array of aforementioned target applications.
