| Predictor Error | Optimal Control Cost |
| --- | --- |
| 0 | + |
| 1 | + |
| 2 | + |
| 3 | + |
</details>

Figure 1: We sometimes assume a monotonic relationship like (a) between the predictor error and the optimal control cost. However, it is possible that the relationship is like (b), which means when the predictor improves, the control cost may get worse.

The tricky relationship between prediction performance and optimization performance has been noticed by some researchers, and it has been analyzed from data’s point of views. In “machine-learning-based prediction + optimization” problems, there is a growing interest in decision-focused learning, which uses loss functions measuring the optimization results in the upstream machine learning prediction model training[24][25][26]. For most dynamic system predictive optimal control applications, the predictor design is still separated from the optimal control process. Meanwhile, there are many efforts on robust MPC focusing on generating good control policies despite imperfect predictions[22][27]. However, formulations which can describe impact of wrong prediction for dynamic systems has not yet been reported in literatures.

In stochastic predictive optimal control, we need to deal with two types of descriptions of the future generalized disturbance: one predicted subjective probability distribution (which we call the belief ), and one “true” probability distribution (which will be precisely defined later). In this paper, we focus on two questions:

• Q1 (What): What is the proper framework that describes the relationships among the predicted probability distribution, the (to-be-defined) “true” probability distribution, the control performance, and other elements in predictive optimal control?   
• Q2 (How): With limited data and generally-unknown “true” probability distribution, how should we evaluate the predictors which generate the subjective probability distributions?

We believe Q1 has been answered in this paper, and a general answer to Q2 is provided. More investigations of specific types of predictive optimal control will be needed for a comprehensive answer to Q2 in future studies.
