State and Observation Space. In all PDE control problems addressed, the state $s ( t )$ at time t is represented by the PDE value $u ( x , t ) , x \in \mathcal { X }$ . To enhance flexibility for different PDE tasks such as observer design, we have developed different partial state measurement settings, which we denote as the observation space $o ( t )$ . The types of sensing supported for each problem are detailed in Table 3.2. Furthermore, we offer the ability to introduce custom noise functions (with built-in support for Gaussian noise). This allows users to simulate real-world sensor noise in their experiments.

Action Space. The action $a ( t ) ~ = ~ U ( t )$ for both the RL and control agents is determined by the actuation locations and boundary condition type. In 1D hyperbolic and parabolic systems, we consider both Neumann and Dirichlet boundary actuation $U ( t ) \in \mathbb { R }$ at either boundary, with four possible cases: 1) $u ( 0 , t ) = U ( t ) , 2 ) \ u ( 1 , t ) = U ( t ) , 3 ) \ u _ { x } ( 0 , t ) = U ( t )$ , and 4) $u _ { x } ( 1 , t ) = U ( t )$ . Considering the symmetry between the boundaries $x \ = \ 0$ and $x \ = \ 1$ , there are eight distinct combinations for the 1D Hyperbolic PDE problem and six for the 1D Parabolic PDE problem, including an additional boundary condition at $u ( 0 , t )$ . These combinations are outlined in the first two sections of Table 3.2. For the 2D Navier–Stokes problem, we consider Dirichlet-type boundary actuation on any of the four boundaries: top, bottom, left, and right. The gym also allows users to customize actuator positions, enabling research into optimizing both location and actuation type.

State Evolution. To simulate the PDE system evolution with the control input $U ( t )$ , we use a first-order Taylor approximation for temporal evolution,

$$u (t + \Delta t) = u (t) + \Delta t \cdot \mathcal {P} \left(u (t), \frac {\partial u}{\partial x}, \frac {\partial^ {2} u}{\partial x ^ {2}}, \dots , U (t)\right). \tag {2}$$

Spatial derivatives are approximated using appropriate finite difference schemes and are explicitly given for each gym environment in the Appendix A.1 and B.1. In practice, selecting the time step $\Delta t$ and spatial discretization $\Delta x$ for each problem requires careful consideration, particularly based on the number of approximated spatial derivatives. Nonetheless, we found that reasonable choices such as $\Delta x = 0 . 0 1 , \Delta t = 0 . 0 0 0 1$ yield both fast and numerically stable results.
