# 6. Conclusion

Future work Throughout this paper, we have mentioned several avenues for future research based on the PDE Control Gym. As such, we conclude this work by briefly summarizing these ideas. We employed relatively simple policy network architectures in our RL algorithms, not fully fine-tuning them to the specific problems. The PDE Control Gym presents opportunities to optimize policy network structures, improve reward shaping, and develop better RL algorithms for PDE control tasks. Additionally, our experiments were based on time-invariant linear instability coefficients where $\beta ( x )$ and λ(x) are unknown but static during RL training. Thus, there is much to be explored for model-free controllers when considering time-varying models, adaptive control, and sensing noise. Furthermore, given the superior performance of backstepping controllers, investigating the potential of pre-training RL methods through imitation learning could be a valuable direction.

Conclusion In this study, we introduced the first benchmark suite for learning-based boundary control of PDEs. We developed RL gyms for three fundamental PDE control problems: the 1D transport PDE, 1D reaction-diffusion PDE, and 2D Navier Stokes PDE. This gym allows for the separation of algorithm design from the numerical implementation of PDEs. Moreover, we trained a series of model-free RL models on the three benchmarks and compared their performance with model-based PDE backstepping and optimization methods. Finally, our work discussed multiple avenues for future research, aiming to inspire new research in the challenging field of PDE control.
