# 2.2 PID/PI desired stable system

PID/PI control is popular for many industrial control systems. Ideally, PID or PI control can completely reject the effect of constant disturbance when stabilizing a system. The desired stable system in PID form is a third-order system, and the overshoot often happens. Especially, a large overshoot exists due to the windup effect or the integration saturation. We have the following two Lemmas.

Lemma 2.1 (PID desired stable system with unknown constant disturbance): For system

$$\ddot {e} (t) = - k _ {p} e (t) - k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau - k _ {d} \dot {e} (t) + d \tag {6}$$

where, d is any unknown constant disturbance, if $k _ { p } , k _ { i }$ and $k _ { d }$ are selected to make the real parts of all the roots of the characteristic equation $s ^ { 3 } + k _ { d } s ^ { 2 } + k _ { p } s + k _ { i } = 0$ negative, then, system (6) is exponentially stable, and

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} e (t) = 0, \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \dot {e} (t) = 0, \text { and } \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau = d \tag {7}$$

The proof of Lemma 2.1 is presented in Appendix. 

Remark 2.2 (PID control for second-order systems): Ideally, PID controller is used for the control of a second-order system with unknown constant disturbance (but not time-varying disturbance). For the second-order system of error form

$$\ddot {e} (t) = - g (t) - u (t) + d \tag {8}$$

the system (6) is selected as the desired stable system. We select the right sides of (6) and (8) equal, i.e.,

$$- g (t) - u (t) + d = - k _ {p} e (t) - k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau - k _ {d} \dot {e} (t) + d \tag {9}$$

Then, solving the equality (9), the disturbance d is canceled out, and we get the controller:

$$u (t) = k _ {p} e (t) + k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau + k _ {d} \dot {e} (t) - g (t) \tag {10}$$

From (68), the closed-loop error system is a third-order system, the combination of three roots of $s ^ { 3 } + k _ { d } s ^ { 2 } + k _ { p } s + k _ { i } = 0$ determines the stability and transient process, and the overshooting response often happens.
