Then, we get the linear convergence law ${ \dot { e } } _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = - k _ { 1 } e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ (i.e., sliding surface $e _ { 2 } \left( t \right) + k _ { 1 } e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = 0 )$ , i.e., the system (18) is globally exponentially stable, and

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} e _ {1} (t) = 0 \text { and } \lim _ {t \to \infty} e _ {2} (t) = 0 \tag {21}$$

In addition, the convergence of variable $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ is non-overshooting.

The proof of Theorem 3.1 is presented in Appendix. 

Remark 3.1 (Performance analysis of sliding mode (18) with conditions (19) and $( { \it 2 0 } ) )$ :

1) Globally exponential stability and no overshoot.
During the whole transient process, both $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ and $e _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ converge to zero, and no overshoot exists in $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ :   
i) Firstly, there exists a finite time $t _ { c } > 0$ , for $t \geq t _ { c }$ , the first subsystem enables $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ to reach $| e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) | \le e _ { 1 c }$ without overshoot;
meanwhile, $e _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ gets to $e _ { 2 c } \mathrm { s i g n } ( e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) )$ ;
then, the first subsystem switches to the second subsystem.
ii) Secondly, for the second subsystem within the range $| e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) | \le e _ { 1 c } ,$ from its initial values $e _ { 1 } \left( t _ { c } \right)$ and $e _ { 2 } \left( t _ { c } \right)$ , there exists a finite time $t _ { s } > 0 .$ , for $t \geq t _ { c } + t _ { s } $ , the variables $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ and $e _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ are attracted without overshoot onto the sliding surface $\sigma \left( t \right) = e _ { 2 } \left( t \right) + k _ { 1 } e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = 0$ , and the sliding function $\sigma \left( t \right)$ and the sliding variable $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ are non-overshooting during $t \in [ t _ { c } , t _ { c } + t _ { s } )$ ;
because ${ \dot { e } } _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = e _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ , the linear convergence law ${ \dot { e } } _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = - k _ { 1 } e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ is achieved;
therefore, for $t \geq t _ { c } + t _ { s }$ $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ and $e _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ are exponentially convergent, and no overshoot exists in $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ .
Therefore, it is a non-overshooting convergence process.
2) Complete rejection of bounded stochastic disturbance/uncertainty.
Disturbances or uncertainties exist in many dynamic systems.
For example, in a UAV flight, the aerodynamic disturbance exists from the crosswind, and the influences of unmodelled dynamic uncertainties are not avoidable in modeling.
They perform to be stochastic and bounded.
Therefore, we can define the disturbance or uncertainty $d ( t )$ to satisfy $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { s u p } _ { t \in [ 0 , \infty ) } | d ( t ) | \le L _ { d } < \infty } \end{array}$ .
For the sliding mode (18), even the bounded disturbance d (t) exists, the strict non-overshooting and exponential stability is still achieved, and lim t→∞ $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = 0$ and t→∞ $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } e _ { 2 } ( t ) = 0$ .
