# 1. Introduction

In many automotive control[1][2], traffic control [3], robot control [4] and building control [5] applications, optimal control decisions need to be made in the presence of an uncertain future. This uncertain future is usually caused by complicated human behaviors or highly complex environment systems, and it can have a relative large impact on the control system performance[6]. The control policies in these applications need to be adjusted according to different potential future scenarios[7]. A common way to handle this is to use a predictor to forecast the future, and then apply the optimal controller with respect to this forecasted future[8]. The “prediction + optimal control” scheme has shown good performance in practice. There have also been theoretical results showing that predictions for certain control problems are beneficial[9]. In this paper, we refer to this type of control method as predictive optimal control.

Predictive optimal control is closely related to model predictive control (MPC). MPC was originally used to handle constraints to achieve recursive feasibility[10]. In some MPC applications, the prediction stages can forecast certain future external signal values that impacts the system dynamics[11]. The word external here means that this signal is neither a state nor an output of the system to be controlled. In this paper, we call this external signal the generalized disturbance. For our problems of interest, we use the phrase predictive optimal control instead of MPC, mainly because we want to to emphasize that a future generalized disturbance has to be forecasted, and the major goal of the control is to minimize a certain cost. Meanwhile, in this predictive optimal control framework, the prediction horizon and prediction update frequency is flexible. This still fits the general MPC framework, but it may be different from the commonly-used receding horizon MPC.
