# 2.1. Learning-based PDE benchmarks

Currently, to the author’s knowledge, there are no benchmarking suites focused on boundary control of PDEs as most benchmarks such as Takamoto et al. (2022); Gupta and Brandstetter (2022) present datasets for learning PDE solution maps from initial conditions. These benchmarks are typically used for comparing neural network-based PDE solvers like neural operators Lu et al. (2021); Li et al. (2021) and PINNs Raissi et al. (2019). Although these benchmarks are effective, they do not allow users to incorporate boundary control or alter the PDEs within their datasets. The $\phi _ { \mathrm { F l o w } }$ framework Holl et al. (2020) provides a flexible PDE solver that supports automatic differentiation for the calculation PDE derivatives to be used in control algorithms. While adaptable for PDE control, it does not natively support RL algorithms and lacks a set of model-based controllers for learning-based control comparisons. Lastly, it is worth noting that while there are ODE control suites like Duan et al. (2016); Tassa et al. (2018) tailored for ODE control tasks. Lastly, we mention a concurrent work that also integrates in-domain PDE control into a RL library Zhang et al. (2024); however, the class of problems they focus on - namely in-domain control - is different from the boundary control problems we benchmark in this gym. Thus, the PDE control gym, to our knowledge, represents the first PDE-focused benchmarking suite for learning-based boundarycontrol algorithms.

<table><tr><td>Benchmarking for machine learning in PDEs</td><td>Compilation of a premade dataset</td><td>Supports control</td><td>Differentiable PDE solver</td><td>Supports custom PDEs</td><td>Supports reinforcement learning</td><td>Implementation of model-based control</td></tr><tr><td>PhiFlow Holl et al. (2020)</td><td>✕</td><td>√</td><td>√</td><td>√</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td></tr><tr><td>PDEBench Takamoto et al. (2022) (created from PhiFlow)</td><td>√</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td></tr><tr><td>PDEArena Gupta and Brandstetter (2022) (created from PhiFlow)</td><td>√</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td><td>✕</td></tr><tr><td>PDE Control Gym (Ours)</td><td>✕</td><td>√</td><td>✕</td><td>√</td><td>√</td><td>√</td></tr></table>

Table 1: Comparison of benchmarks for machine learning in PDEs.
