In this paper, we presents a framework describing the relationship among the elements of predictive optimal control that can be used to analyze the impact of wrong predictions. We incorporate a stochastic environment model and define a new concept called the hidden prediction state to connect the subjective belief and the objective truth. Both the single-observation fixedend-horizon case and the updating-observation receding-horizon case are considered. Then we use this framework to consider the predictor evaluation problem, in the practical case with limited data availability. Three commonly-used predictor evaluation measures, including the mean squared error, the regret and the log-likelihood, are discussed. We show that a better predictor with respect to the mean squared error or the log-likelihood may actually lead to worse control performance, and this may happen even if the predictor is arbitrarily close to the global optimal. Evaluating the predictor along with the control performance, such as using the control cost or the regret measure, can avoid this. The results are illustrated in numerical examples and simulation examples from automotive applications.

The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 provides the general problem formulation of predictive optimal control. Section 3 presents an analysis framework for predictive optimal control with a environment model. Section 4 discusses predictor evaluation measures. In Section 5, we use the proposed framework to analyze the relationship between the predictor performance and the control performance. Section 6 provides examples to illustrate the ideas and the results. Section 7 concludes this paper.
