# 2.3. What If the Beliefs Are Wrong

In real-world applications, usually we know that our belief is imperfect. This brings up a lot of interesting questions. In the rest of this paper, we will focus on the case where we know our belief is not perfect, and we would like to find out how it impacts the control performance, and how we can improve our it.

The true probability distribution of the future disturbance sequence is denoted by W¯ t. We will define this true probability distribution in Section 3.2. For now, let us assume there exists a well-defined one.

If we are not sure whether our belief is true, we have a problem immediately: since we do not know the true distribution $\hat { W } _ { t }$ , we cannot evaluate the cost expectation in (3) in the sense that $\hat { w } \sim \hat { W } _ { t }$ . Based on our imperfect belief $\bar { W } _ { b }$ , we can only obtain an optimized policy with respect to this imperfect belief. As $\bar { W } _ { b }$ is only a subjective probability distribution which is not directly associated with any actual random vectors defined in our formulation so far, we use the notation $\hat { \mathbb { E } } _ { \bar { w } \sim \bar { W } _ { b } } * ( \bar { w } )$ to denote the believed expectation of a function ∗ $( \bar { w } )$ when the random vector $\bar { w }$ follows the believed distribution $\bar { W } _ { b }$ . We will stop using the ambiguous expectation notation in (3) for subject beliefs. Instead, the believed expected cost to be minimized is now defined as

$$\underset {\bar {w} \sim \bar {W} _ {b}} {\hat {\mathbb {E}}} J (x _ {0}, w _ {0}, u _ {0}, \dots , x _ {N - 1}, w _ {N - 1}, u _ {n - 1}, x _ {N}). \tag {4}$$

Under this notation, the true expectation can be re-written as

$$\underset {\bar {w} \sim \bar {W} _ {t}} {\hat {\mathbb {E}}} J (x _ {0}, w _ {0}, u _ {0}, \dots , x _ {N - 1}, w _ {N - 1}, u _ {n - 1}, x _ {N}). \tag {5}$$

Our optimal policy $\pi _ { \bar { W } _ { b } } ( \cdot )$ obtained using the imperfect belief $\bar { W } _ { b }$ minimizes (4), not (5). It initially seems that there is not much we can do if our best estimation is $\bar { W } _ { b }$ . However, a complete analysis framework will give us insights about the relationship between the predictor and the control performance, thus guide our predictor design.
