# Remark 5.1 (Non-overshooting control $( 4 0 ) )$ :

1) Non-overshooting of $x _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ tracking $x _ { d } \left( t \right)$ : The sliding mode (18) is the desired stable system of error form, therefore, $e _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = x _ { d } \left( t \right) - x _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ converges to zero without overshoot. Thus, $x _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ tracking $x _ { d } \left( t \right)$ is non-overshooting.

2) Complete rejection of the influence from bounded disturbance and time-variant reference: For the uncertain system (39), the disturbance $\delta ( t )$ and the second-order derivative of reference $x _ { d } ( t )$ are bounded, and $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { s u p } _ { t \in [ 0 , \infty ) } | \delta ( t ) | + \operatorname* { s u p } _ { t \in [ 0 , \infty ) } | \Ddot { x } _ { d } ( t ) | \leq L _ { d } < \infty } \end{array}$ are satisfied. The parameters of controller (40) satisfy $k _ { c } > L _ { d }$ and (43). When selecting the controller (40), from (173) and (174) in the proof of Theorem 5.1, the closed-loop error system for (39) is the robust non-overshooting 2-sliding mode (18). Therefore, limt→∞ $x _ { 1 } \left( t \right) = x _ { d } \left( t \right)$ and $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } x _ { 2 } ( t ) = \dot { x } _ { d } ( t )$ , and there is no overshoot for $x _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ tracking $x _ { d } \left( t \right)$ .   
3) Smoothed $x _ { 1 } ( t )$ : Due to the integral-chain structure of second-order sliding mode $( 1 8 ) , e _ { 1 } ( t )$ is smoothed. Therefore, for the control system, $x _ { 1 } \left( t \right)$ is smoothed.   
$\it 4 )$ Chattering in the variable $x _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ and the controller $u \left( t \right)$ : For system (39), due to the controller of switching function exists in the $x _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ dynamic equation, chattering happens in $x _ { 2 } \left( t \right)$ . Also, the controller $u \left( t \right)$ in (40) is discontinuous, therefore, chattering exists in the controller output. The chattering in controller output will affect actuator performance adversely.
