On the one hand, the lack of robustness of the original approaches with respect to noise, unmodeled dynamics and disturbances has been emphasized. On the other hand, the experience with the various applications has shown that one of the major assumptions in these schemes (i.e., the plant model is a discrete-time model with stable zeros and a fixed delay) is not a very realistic one (except in special applications). Even successful applications have required a careful selection of the sampling frequency (since fractional delay larger than half of the sampling period generates a discrete-time unstable zero). The industrial experiences and various counter-examples were extremely beneficial for the evolution of the field. A significant research effort has been dedicated to robustness issues and development of robust adaptation algorithms. Egardt (1979), Praly (1983c), Ortega et al. (1985), Ioannou and Kokotovic (1983) are among the basic references. A deeper analysis of the adaptive schemes has also been done in Anderson et al. (1986). An account of the work on robustness of adaptive control covering both continuous and discretetime adaptive control can be found in Ortega and Tang (1989). For continuous-time only, see also Ioannou and Datta (1989, 1996).

The other important research direction was aimed towards adaptive control of discrete-time models with unstable zeros which led to the development of indirect adaptive control schemes and their analysis. The problems of removing the need of persistence of excitation and of the eventual singularities which may occur when computing a controller based on plant model parameter estimates have been addressed, as well as the robustness issues (see Lozano and Zhao 1994 for details and a list of references). Various underlying linear control strategies have been considered: pole placement (de Larminat 1980 is one of the first references), linear quadratic control (Samson 1982 is the first reference) and generalized predictive control (Clarke et al. 1987). Adaptive versions of pole placement and generalized predictive control are the most popular ones.
