# A. Two Particles in a Chaotic Flow

We consider a spatially smooth, large-scale chaotic velocity field with a zero mean velocity. This type of flow has been extensively studied in stochastic hydrodynamics, see [19–24], and the relevant review [25]. Particles placed in such flows are assumed to be very small relative to the typical length scales of the flow and they thus do not affect or alter the flow itself, making interactions between particles negligible. The particles separate exponentially fast. Our task is to navigate an active particle to control its separation from a passive target, assuming they were released in almost the same position initially. Let $\pmb { s } _ { \alpha } ( t ) = ( s _ { \alpha ; i } \vert i = 1 , \cdot \cdot \cdot , d )$ represent the positions of the two particles, $\alpha = 1 , 2 ,$ in d-dimensional flow (where d = 2 or d = 3). The separation vector $\pmb { s } = \pmb { s } _ { 1 } - \pmb { s } _ { 2 }$ evolves according to:

$$\frac {\mathrm{d} \boldsymbol {s}}{\mathrm{d} t} - \boldsymbol {v} (t, \boldsymbol {s} _ {1}, \boldsymbol {s} _ {2}) = - \frac {\boldsymbol {a} (t) + \boldsymbol {\xi} (t)}{\tau}, \tag {7}$$

where τ is the friction coefficient (set to unity for simplicity), $\pmb { a } ( t ) = ( a _ { i } ( t ) | i = 1 , \cdots , d )$ is the control term that represents the active particle’s action to fight against the flow, and ξ(t) is the difference in Brownian forces acting on the active and passive particles, modeled as zero-mean white-Gaussian noise:

$$\forall i, j: \mathbb {E} \big [ \xi_ {i} (t) \xi_ {j} (t ^ {\prime}) \big ] = \kappa \delta_ {i j} \delta (t - t ^ {\prime}),$$

where κ is the diffusion coefficient.

The relative velocity vector $v ( t , s _ { 1 } , s _ { 2 } ) : = v _ { 1 } ( t , s _ { 1 } ) -$ ${ \pmb v } _ { 2 } ( t , s _ { 2 } )$ will be modeled differently throughout the manuscript. Following standard stochastic hydrodynamics assumptions [25] for large-scale flows, we approximate ${ \pmb v } ( t , { \pmb s } _ { 1 } , s _ { 2 } )$ by the leading term in its Taylor expansion in s:

$$\pmb {v} (t, \pmb {s} _ {1}, \pmb {s} _ {2}) \approx \pmb {\sigma} (t) \pmb {s},$$

where $\pmb { \sigma } ( t )$ is a possibly time-dependent velocity gradient matrix. For the general case, we consider an auxiliary multiplicative dynamics:

$$\frac {\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d} t ^ {\prime}} \boldsymbol {W} (t ^ {\prime}; t) = \boldsymbol {\sigma} (t ^ {\prime}) \boldsymbol {W} (t ^ {\prime}; t), \tag {8}$$
