An alternative solution is to choose one of the control inputs that corresponds to the best output estimator and apply it to the real system. This approach which is based on switching among a set of controllers has the advantage that a stability analysis for the closed-loop system can be carried out. The stability of switching systems has been probably analyzed for the first time in Martensson (1986). Some authors consider the case of predetermined switching among a set of controllers (Fu and Barmish 1986; Miller and Davison 1989; Miller 1994). However, switching based on an error signal measured in real-time that represents the difference between the measured output and an estimated one seems to be more interesting. In this approach, it is supposed that a set of models for different operating points is a priori known. Then at every instant a controller corresponding to the model yielding the minimum of a performance index is used to compute the control input. The precision of the control can be further improved using an adaptive model (a model whose parameters are updated with a parameter adaptation algorithm) in the set of models. This method together with a stability analysis was proposed in Narendra and Balakrishnan (1997).

It is well known that switching between stable systems may lead to instability (Liberzon 2003). Therefore, it is essential to assure the stability of the closed-loop system when the switching is controlled by a noisy error signal. The stability can be guaranteed if a hysteresis function is introduced in the switching rule. Another way is to consider a time delay between two consecutive switchings. It can be shown that if this delay is sufficiently large the switching among stable systems is not destabilizing.

This chapter is organized as follows. Section 13.2 describes the principles of adaptive control with switching. A stability analysis based on minimum dwell-time is given in Sect. 13.3. Finally, an adaptive control strategy based on switching and tuning is applied to the flexible transmission system in Sect. 13.4. The CLOE adaptation algorithm is used and the effect on the design parameters on the performance of the closed-loop system are studied.
