The transfer operators $P ( q ^ { - 1 } ) , Q ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ allow to accommodate a variety of design aspects related to the disturbance characteristics, tracking capabilities, robustness, and also allow to establish close relationship with the various one step ahead predictive control strategies.

The criterion depends on future controls and outputs of the plant and the expectation is conditioned on data available up to and including t. Therefore in the effective minimization procedure $y ( t + j )$ for $j \geq d + 1$ will be replaced by their predictions. The initial horizon $h _ { i }$ is usually taken larger than the delay i.e. $h _ { i } \geq d + 1$ . The prediction horizon $h _ { p }$ is usually taken close to the time response of the system. The control horizon $h _ { c }$ will define the complexity of the optimization procedure and the objective is to take it as small as possible. However, this may lead to instability for too shorter horizons (see the discussion at the end of this section).

Note that the constraint on the input specified in (7.184) can be simply interpreted in terms of classical linear quadratic control as putting an infinite weight $\lambda ( t + i ) = \infty$ on the input for $i \ge h _ { c } . \mathrm { I f } \ h _ { p } , h _ { c } \to \infty$ , one obtains the infinite horizon quadratic criterion (which will be discussed in Sect. 7.8). Assuming for example that $\mathcal { Q } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 - q ^ { - 1 }$ , the constraint (7.184) can be interpreted as imposing that the variations of the control input be zero after $h _ { c }$ steps.

As we will see, $P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ allows to assign part of the poles of the closed loop. $\boldsymbol { Q } ( \boldsymbol { q } ^ { - 1 } )$ allows to obtain offset-free performances for given disturbance models (it represents the internal model of the disturbance which has to be included in the controller). It also allows the shaping of the controller frequency characteristics for robustness considerations.

The form of the criterion (7.182) allows to establish relationship with several one step ahead control strategies.
