# 11.8 Problems

11.1 Give the details of the proof for the Theorem 11.5 using the averaging method (convergence analysis of the adaptive generalized minimum variance and regulation).

11.2 Show that for a recursive least square one step ahead predictor estimating an ARMAX model:

$$A (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + 1) = B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) + C (q ^ {- 1}) e (t + 1); n _ {A} = n _ {C}$$

(a) ${ \boldsymbol { \theta } ^ { * } } ^ { T } = [ ( c _ { 1 } - a _ { 1 } ) , \dots , ( c _ { n _ { A } } - a _ { n _ { A } } ) , b _ { 1 } , \dots , b _ { n _ { B } } ]$ is a possible convergence point. (b) the sufficient condition for w.p.1 convergence towards

$$D _ {C} = \{\hat {\theta} | [ \theta^ {*} - \hat {\theta} ] ^ {T} \phi (t, \hat {\theta}) = 0 \}$$

is the strict positive realness o f 1C(z−1) − λ22 for 2 > λ2 ≥ supt λ2(t ). $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { 1 } { C ( z ^ { - 1 } ) } - \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } } { 2 } } \end{array}$ $2 > \lambda _ { 2 } \geq \operatorname* { s u p } _ { t } \lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$

(c) assuming that $[ \theta ^ { * } - \hat { \theta } ] ^ { T } \phi ( t , \hat { \theta } ) = 0$ has only one solution ${ \hat { \theta } } = \theta ^ { * }$ , the estimated parameters correspond to the coefficients of the minimum variance regulator.

Interpret the results and compare with the analysis given in Sect. 11.4.2.

11.3 In the stochastic environment, for an ARMAX plant model with $d = 0$ , define an adaptation error as:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + 1)$$

Using the averaging method (Theorem 4.1) derive directly the adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation scheme assuring:

$$\operatorname{Prob} \left\{\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} [ y (t + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + 1) ] = e (t + 1) \right\} = 1$$

11.4 The adaptive tracking and regulation with independent objectives (Sect. 11.2) uses in the observation vector entering in the adaptation algorithm $y ( t ) , y ( t - 1 )$ , $\dots , u ( t ) , u ( t - 1 )$ , which are directly corrupted by noise. In order to remove asymptotically the effect of the measurement noise, try to develop a direct adaptive control scheme which uses the ideas of closed-loop output error recursive identification algorithms (Sect. 9.2).

11.5 Extend the results of Theorem 11.5 for robust direct adaptive control in the presence of bounded disturbances for the case of a plant with pure time delay $d \geq 1$ .

11.6 Consider the following plant model:

$$(1 + a _ {1} q ^ {- 1}) y (t + 1) = b _ {1} u (t) + b _ {2} u (t - 1) = b _ {1} [ 1 + \beta q ^ {- 1} ] u (t)$$
