# 3.2 PAA—Examples

Relation (3.71) leads to a forgetting factor that asymptotically tends towards 1. The criterion minimized will be:

$$J (t) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {t} \left[ \prod_ {j = 1} ^ {t} \lambda_ {1} (j - i) \right] [ y (i) - \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi (i - 1) ] ^ {2} \tag {3.72}$$

As $\lambda _ { 1 }$ tends towards 1 for large i, only the initial data are forgotten (the adaptation gain tends towards a decreasing gain).

This type of profile is highly recommended for the model identification of stationary systems, since it avoids a too rapid decrease of the adaptation gain, thus generally resulting in an acceleration of the convergence (by maintaining a high gain at the beginning when the estimates are at a great distance from the optimum).

Other types of evolution for $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t )$ can be considered. For example:

$$\lambda_ {1} (t) = 1 - \frac {\phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)}{1 + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)}$$

This forgetting factor depends upon the input/output signals via $\phi ( t )$ . It automatically takes the value 1 if the norm of $\phi ( t ) \phi ^ { T } ( t )$ becomes null. In the cases where the $\phi ( t )$ sequence is such that the term $\phi ^ { T } ( t ) F ( t ) \phi ( t )$ is significative with respect to one, the forgetting factor takes a lower value assuring good adaptation capabilities (this is related to the concept of “persistently exciting” signal—see Sect. 3.4).

Another possible choice is:

$$\lambda_ {1} (t) = 1 - \alpha \frac {[ \varepsilon^ {0} (t) ] ^ {2}}{1 + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)}; \quad \alpha > 0$$

The forgetting factor tends towards 1, when the prediction error tends towards zero. Conversely, when a change occurs in the system parameters, the prediction error increases leading to a forgetting factor less than 1 in order to assure a good adaptation capability.

A4: Constant Trace In this case, $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t )$ and $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ are automatically chosen at each step in order to ensure a constant trace of the gain matrix (constant sum of the diagonal terms):

$$\operatorname{tr} F (t + 1) = \operatorname{tr} F (t) = \operatorname{tr} F (0) = n G I \tag {3.73}$$

in which n is the number of parameters and GI the initial gain (typical values: $G I =$ 0.1 to 4), the matrix $F ( 0 )$ having the form:

$$
F (0) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} G I & & 0 \\ & \ddots & \\ 0 & & G I \end{array} \right] \tag {3.74}
$$

The minimized criterion is of the form:
