It also has to be mentioned that even if the zeros of the plant model are asymptotically stable, it is not possible (or it becomes very complicated) to develop direct adaptive control schemes for pole placement, linear quadratic control or generalized predictive control. The reason is that it is not possible to obtain an adaptation error equation which is linear in the difference between the nominal and estimated controller parameters. For various attempts to develop direct adaptive control schemes for pole placement see Eliott (1980), Lozano and Landau (1982), Åström (1980).

At first glance, the derivation of PAA for direct adaptive control schemes looks quite close to the one used in recursive identification and adaptive prediction. The PAA structures considered in Chaps. 3 and 4 will be used as well as the synthesis and analysis tools presented in Chap. 3 (for deterministic environment) and Chap. 4 (for stochastic environment). The objective will be that the resulting adaptive control schemes achieve asymptotically the desired performance for the case of known parameters. However, the analysis of adaptive control schemes is much more involved than the analysis of recursive identification and adaptive predictor schemes since in this case the plant input (the control) will depend upon the parameters’ estimates. Showing that the plant input and output remain bounded during the adaptation transient is one of the key issues of the analysis. In the analysis of the various schemes, it will be assumed that the unknown parameters are either constant or piece-wise constant and that their variations from one value to another is either slow or is subject to sparse step changes. In the stochastic case, in order to assure the convergence of the adaptive controller toward the optimal one, it is necessary to assume that the parameters are unknown but constant and therefore a decreasing adaptation gain will be used. The robustness aspects related to the violation of the basic hypotheses will be examined in detail in Sect. 11.5.
