As indicated in Chap. 3, the integrator property of the PAA results from the assumptions that the model for the variations of the parameters is a constant and the PAA will find the level of this constant. If the model of variations of the parameters is known, this can be inferred in the algorithm (see Chap. 3). However, in many applications, the parameters of the plant model are slowly time-varying and the model of these variations is unknown. In such cases, one can question the usefulness of the integrator behavior of the PAA since a “final” constant parameter value does not exist. Therefore, one can consider replacing the integrator by a first-order filter. This will also enhance the robustness of the scheme since a passive operator will be replaced by a strictly passive operator. This modification is discussed in Chap. 3, and will not be repeated here.

• Data normalization

When the estimated model is of lower dimension than the true plant model, the unmodeled response of the plant (if the unmodeled part is stable) can be bounded by a norm or a filtered norm of the reduced order regressor $\phi$ containing the inputs and outputs over a certain horizon. This unmodeled response can also be considered as a disturbance added to a reduced order model.

In the context of adaptive control, since we cannot assume that the regressor $\phi$ containing plant inputs and outputs does not grow unbounded, we have to assure that the parameter estimates and the adaptation error remain bounded. This is obtained by defining “normalized” input-output data. This data corresponds to the input-output data divided by a norm of $\phi$ . This new data cannot become unbounded, and the resulting normalized unmodeled response is also bounded. Therefore, the parameter estimator built from this data, will lead to a bounded adaptation error and using a PAA with dead zone or projection the boundedness of the parameter estimates will be assured.
