# 11.3 Adaptive Tracking and Regulation with Weighted Input

To develop an adaptive version of this control strategy presented in Sect. 7.5, we will proceed in a similar way as for adaptive tracking and regulation with independent objectives. In Sect. 7.5, it was pointed out that the objective in the case of known parameters is that:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = P \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y (t + d + 1) + \lambda Q \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) - P \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) \\ = 0; \quad \forall t > 0 \tag {11.66} \\ \end{array}
$$

In the case of unknown parameters, the objective will be:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \lim _ {t \to \infty} [ \bar {y} (t + d + 1) - P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) ] = 0 \tag {11.67}$$

where:

$$\bar {y} (t + d + 1) = P y (t + d + 1) + \lambda Q u (t) \tag {11.68}$$

defines a so called “augmented output” or “generalized output”.

The adjustable controller will have the same structure as the one given for the case of known parameters, but with adjustable parameters. Therefore from (7.143), one chooses the following adjustable controller:

$$P y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) - \lambda Q u (t) = \hat {S} (t) u (t) + \hat {R} (t) y (t) = \hat {\theta} _ {C} ^ {T} (t) \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.69}$$

where:

$$\hat {\theta} _ {C} ^ {T} (t) = \left[ s _ {0}, \dots , s _ {n _ {S}}, r _ {0}, \dots , r _ {n _ {R}} \right] \tag {11.70}\phi_ {C} (t) = [ u (t), \dots , u (t - n _ {S}), y (t), \dots , y (t - n _ {R}) ] \tag {11.71}$$

On the other hand (see Sect. 11.2):

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1) = \theta_ {C} ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.72}$$

Combining (11.66), (11.69) and (11.72), one gets:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \left[ \theta_ {C} - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) \right] ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.73}$$

which allows to use the same PAA as for adaptive tracking and regulation ((11.19), (11.20) and (11.22)) where $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + d + 1 ) = \bar { y } ( t + d + 1 ) - P y ^ { * } ( t + d + 1 )$ ). This will assure that the a posteriori adaptation error:

$$\varepsilon (t + d + 1) = \left[ \theta_ {C} - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t + d + 1) \right] ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.74}$$

goes asymptotically to zero. It remains to check that using the PAA of (11.19), (11.20) and (11.23), (11.67) will also be satisfied and that {u(t)} and $\{ y ( t ) \}$ will be bounded. From (11.67), one has that:

$$| \bar {y} (t + d + 1) | \leq C _ {1} ^ {\prime} + C _ {2} ^ {\prime} \max _ {0 \leq k \leq t + d + 1} | \varepsilon^ {0} (k) | \tag {11.75}$$
