# 3.5 Concluding Remarks

In this chapter we have presented discrete-time parameter adaptation algorithms (PAA) and we have examined their properties in a deterministic environment.

We wish to emphasize the following basic ideas:

1. The PAA has in general the following recursive form (integral adaptation):

$$\hat {\theta} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} (t) + F (t) \phi (t) \nu (t + 1)$$

where ${ \hat { \theta } } ( t )$ is the adjustable parameter vector. At each step the correcting term is formed by the product of the adaptation error $\nu ( t + 1 )$ ), the observation vector $\phi ( t )$ and the adaptation gain matrix $F ( t )$ . The adaptation error $\nu ( t + 1 )$ is computed from the measurements up to and including t + 1 and the estimated parameters up to t. The above form of the PAA features memory and it can be interpreted as the state equation of an integrator with state ${ \hat { \theta } } ( t )$ and input $F ( t ) \phi ( t ) \nu ( t + 1 )$ . Other forms of PAA involving more general state equations have also been presented (integral + proportional adaptation, adaptation with leakage, adaptation for time-varying parameters).

2. Several approaches can be used for the derivation of PAA among which we have considered:

• recursive minimization of a criterion in term of the adaptation error;   
• transformation of an off-line parameter estimation into a recursive parameter estimation;   
• rapprochement with the Kalman Filter;   
• stability considerations.

However since the resulting system is nonlinear, a stability analysis is mandatory.

3. An equivalent feedback system (EFR) can be associated with the PAA in the cases where the adaptation error equation features the parameter error explicitly. The use of the EFR simplifies drastically the stability analysis (or synthesis) via the use of the properties of passive systems connected in feedback.

4. For general classes of adaptation error equations and PAA, stability conditions for the resulting adaptive systems have been established.

5. A variety of choices for the adaptation gain are possible. The choice depends upon the specific application.
