It is also custom in the field to define the state-action and state value functions:

$$Q _ {\pi} (s _ {n}, a _ {n}) = \Delta \mathbb {E} _ {a _ {n \rightarrow N}} ^ {s _ {n \rightarrow N}} \left[ \sum_ {k = n} ^ {N} \gamma^ {k - n} r (s _ {k}, a _ {k}) \mid s _ {n}, a _ {n} \right], \tag {3}V _ {\pi} (s _ {n}) = \mathbb {E} _ {a _ {n} \sim \pi (\cdot | s _ {n})} \left[ Q _ {\pi} (s _ {n}, a _ {n}) \right], \tag {4}$$

which describe the expected reward accumulated from the current time $t _ { n } = n T / N$ until the end of the episode, under the given policy and conditioned on the current state and action $( s _ { n }$ and $a _ { n }$ in Eq. (3)) and the current state $( s _ { n }$ in Eq. (4)).

A classic RL approach derives recursive equations for the value functions under a given policy, followed by policy optimization in a greedy, dynamic programming manner. In this manuscript, we adopt a policy gradient-based method that focuses on maximizing the value function over the policy. In the age of AI, the policy function is parameterized via a Neural Network (NN) as $\pi _ { \boldsymbol { \theta } } ( \cdot )$ , where θ represents the parameters of the NN. The objective is to find the maximum of $V _ { \pi _ { \theta } } ( s )$ by evaluating its gradient with respect to θ and iteratively updating θ to make the gradient zero in the limit:

$$\mathbb {E} _ {a \sim \pi_ {\theta} (\sim | s)} \left[ Q _ {\pi} (s, a) \nabla_ {\theta} \log \pi_ {\theta} (a | s) \right] = 0. \tag {5}$$

However, this method tends to have high variance, resulting in slow convergence and unreliable estimates. To address this issue, it was suggested to replace the stateaction value function in Eq. (5) with the so-called advantage function [2]:

$$A _ {\pi} (s, a) = Q _ {\pi} (s, a) - b (s),$$

where the baseline $b ( s )$ depends only on the state and not on the action. This ensures that:

$$\mathbb {E} _ {a \sim \pi_ {\theta} (\sim | s)} \left[ A _ {\pi} (s, a) \nabla_ {\theta} \log \pi_ {\theta} (a | s) \right] = 0, \tag {6}$$

assuming Eq. (5) is valid, due to the fact that $\mathbb { E } _ { a \sim \pi _ { \theta } ( \sim | s ) } [ \nabla _ { \theta }$ log $\pi _ { \theta } ( a | s ) ] = 0$ for any s. Although $b ( s )$ can be any function of s, a common choice is $b ( s ) \ =$ $V _ { \pi } ( s )$ .

This modification – from Q to A with $b = V ~ -$ results in the widely-used actor-critic methods, where in addition to the policy function (the actor), the state-value function $V ( \cdot )$ (the critic) is also approximated by a NN.
