# 12.2.3 The “Singularity” Problem

The question of avoiding singularity points in the parameter space during adaptation, i.e., points which correspond to non-admissible models, has received a lot of attention. While most of the techniques proposed are related to the pole placement where the problem is to avoid plant parameter estimates for which the plant model is not controllable (the determinant of the Sylvester matrix is zero), they can be used also for other types of admissibility conditions.

The various techniques can be classified as follows:

• Techniques based on excitation signals internally generated or externally applied, where the singularities are avoided by securing the convergence of the parameter estimates toward the true plant parameters (Anderson and Johnstone 1985; Eliott 1985; Goodwin and Teoh 1985; Kreisselmeier and Smith 1986; Polderman 1989; Giri et al. 1991; M’Saad et al. 1993b).   
• Techniques based on the projection of the parameter estimates in a convex region (or a set of convex regions) (Kreisselmeier 1986; Ossman and Kamen 1987; Middleton et al. 1988; Barmish and Ortega 1991).   
• Techniques based on the correction of the parameter estimates before using them to compute the controller (de Larminat 1984; Lozano and Goodwin 1985; Lozano 1989, 1992; Lozano et al. 1993; Lozano and Zhao 1994).   
• Search for another type of plant model parameterization allowing to define a convex set of admissible models (Barmish and Ortega 1991).

A detailed review of the various techniques can be found in Lozano and Zhao (1994), M’Saad et al. (1993b). We will focus our attention on a technique of correcting the singular estimated parameter vector without modifying the asymptotic properties of the adaptation algorithm. When modifying the current parameter estimates, one should provide an algorithm for which:

• The modification is easily constructed.   
• The number of possible modifications is finite, and within this finite set, there is at least one modification which gives a nonsingular parameter estimation.   
• The modification algorithm stops (it converges) once a satisfactory result is obtained.

The algorithm which will be presented is based on the technique presented in Lozano and Zhao (1994). This technique starts from the observation that for the parameter estimation algorithms covered by Theorem 3.2, one has (see (3.248))
