# Remarks

• This convergence condition (4.148) is similar to that obtained using the ODE method (Dugard and Landau 1980 and Problem 4.1) but is more powerful, since through this approach, one shows that monitoring of the estimated parameters in order to force them in the stability domain $D _ { s }$ for all t is not necessary.

• This algorithm has been originally developed for removing the SPR condition in the deterministic context, but a SPR condition for convergence appears in a stochastic environment (it depends only upon the noise model).

Proof The proof of Theorem 4.2 uses essentially the basic result of Theorem D.2, Appendix D which gives the behavior of a general feedback system formed by a linear feedforward block, whose output is disturbed by a martingale difference sequence and a linear time-varying feedback block. Taking into account the equivalent system given by (4.113) through (4.116), one can apply Theorem D.2 by making the following substitutions:

$$A (t) = I; \qquad B (t) = F (t) \phi (t); \qquad C (t) = \phi^ {T} (t)D (t) = \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t); \qquad A = A; \qquad B = b; \qquad C = c ^ {T}D = \delta ; \quad \bar {x} (t) = \tilde {\theta} (t) \tag {4.149}y (t + 1) = \nu (t + 1) - \omega (t + 1); \quad \tilde {y} (t + 1) = \nu (t + 1) = \bar {u} (t + 1)\bar {y} (t + 1) = - u (t + 1) = \tilde {\theta} ^ {T} (t + 1) \phi (t)$$

The feedback block defined by (4.115) and (4.116) belongs to the class N(Γ ) for $N ( \boldsymbol { \Gamma } ) = \lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ (see the proof of Theorem 3.1, Sect. 3.3.4).

The condition (3) of Theorem D.2 will be satisfied if there is $\lambda _ { 2 } \geq \operatorname* { m a x } _ { t } \lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ such that $H ( z ^ { - 1 } ) - \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } } { 2 }$ be a strictly positive real discrete transfer function (i.e., $H ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ ) has an excess of passivity to compensate for the lack of passivity of the feedback block). Since $H ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is a ratio of monic polynomials, $\lambda _ { 2 } < 2$ is a necessary condition for strict positive realness of $H ( z ^ { - 1 } ) - \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } } { 2 }$ . This covers the possible domain allowed for the variation of $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ as indicated in (4.96).

Condition (1) of Theorem D.2 requires to evaluate α(t) given by (D.12). In this specific case taking into account the equivalence of notation given in (4.149), one has to check that:
