Looking to the transfer operator from disturbance to the plant input one sees that if for certain types of disturbances we would like to operate like in open loop, which translates in making unobservable the disturbances at the input, the polynomial $R ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ should include a model of the disturbance. Such situations occur in a number of industrial processes where periodic disturbances are voluntarily applied for technological reasons and the controller should not counteract this effect (e.g., continuous steel casting).

The perfect rejection of disturbances with known characteristics or conversely opening of the loop for certain disturbances lead to the conclusion that the general structure of R and S will be of the form:

$$S (q ^ {- 1}) = S ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.15}R (q ^ {- 1}) = R ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.16}$$

where $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are monic fixed polynomials which are introduced in the controller for achieving certain performances with respect to disturbances. Using this parameterization the closed-loop poles will be given by:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) = A (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) S ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) + q ^ {- d - 1} B ^ {\star} (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) R ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.17}$$

Note that $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ can be interpreted as an “augmentation” of the plant model (for computation purposes).

The design of the RST controller can be done in the frequency domain using transfer functions (operators) or in the time domain. To use a design in the frequency domain (known also as the polynomial approach) the time-domain specifications should be translated in desired closed-loop poles and desired closed transfer functions. The frequency domain specifications have also to be taken into account.

The time-domain design is essentially based on forcing some performance indicators to zero (in finite time or asymptotically) or minimizing a quadratic criterion in terms of some performance indicators. However, these performance indicators in most practical cases will be weighted (or filtered) by filters which allow to take into account frequency domain specifications (robustness, disturbance rejection etc.).
