Since $d _ { 2 }$ corresponds to the $^ { \bullet } \mu$ -scaled infinity norm” of the unmodeled dynamics $H ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ filtered by $S ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ ), one gets the condition that boundedness of $\phi _ { C } ( t + 1 )$ is assured for:

$$\left\| S ^ {\prime} \left(\mu^ {- 1} z ^ {- 1}\right) \cdot H \left(\mu^ {- 1} z ^ {- 1}\right) \right\| _ {\infty} < d _ {2} ^ {*} \tag {11.218}$$

In the above approach, the unmodeled response of the plant to be controlled has been represented as an equivalent disturbance. Using normalization it was possible to convert the problem to the bounded disturbance case and using a PAA with dead zone, boundedness of the various signals is assured under a certain condition upon the unmodeled dynamics.

One may question if the PAA with dead zone is really necessary in order to handle unmodeled dynamics in direct adaptive control (even if a small dead zone is always useful in practice). The answer is that it is not always necessary and this can be shown using an equivalent feedback representation of the adaptive systems in the presence of unmodeled dynamics (Ortega et al. 1985; Ortega 1993).

In what follows we will concentrate on the main steps of the analysis and on the interpretation of the results for the design of robust direct adaptive controllers. The proofs of some intermediate steps are omitted. The reader is invited to consult (Ortega et al. 1985; Ortega 1993) for further details. To simplify the presentation we will consider:

• delay $d = 0$ ;   
• no filters on the regressor vector or on the tracking error;   
• PAA with constant adaptation gain;   
• the unmodeled dynamics is represented by a multiplicative uncertainty on the input.

The plant model will be represented by:

$$A (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + 1) = B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) [ 1 + G (q ^ {- 1}) ] u (t) \tag {11.219}$$

where $G ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ accounts for the unmodeled dynamics (multiplicative uncertainty). The filtered predicted output is given by:

$$P y (t + 1) = \left(A S ^ {\prime} + q ^ {- 1} R\right) y (t + 1) \tag {11.220}$$

where $S ^ { \prime }$ and R are solutions of the polynomial equation (11.171). Taking into account (11.219), one has from (11.220):

$$P y (t + 1) = S u (t) + S G u (t) + R y (t) \tag {11.221}$$

where $S = S ^ { \prime } B ^ { * }$ . From the definition of $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 )$ given in (11.177) and using (11.176), one gets:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = (1 + G) S u (t) + R y (t) - \hat {\theta} _ {C} ^ {T} (t) \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.222}$$

Bearing in mind that:
