# Uncorrelation Test

Using the “output error” configuration shown in Fig. 9.1. where the predictor is given by (9.8) through (9.11), the uncorrelation between the closed-loop output error $\varepsilon _ { C L } ( t + 1 )$ and the components of the observation vector of $\phi ( t ) \ ( \hat { y } ( t ) , \hat { u } ( t - d )$ and their delayed values) will be tested together with the covariance of the residual closed-loop output prediction error. This type of test is motivated by the fact that uncorrelation between the observations (components of $\phi ( t ) )$ and the closed-loop output prediction error (i) leads to unbiased parameter estimates and (ii) implies the uncorrelation between the prediction error and the external excitation. This means that the residual prediction error does not contain any information depending upon the external excitation and therefore all correlations between the external excitation and the output of the closed loop system are represented by the predictor.

One computes:

$$R _ {\varepsilon} (0) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon_ {C L} ^ {2} (t) \tag {9.82}R _ {\hat {u}} (0) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \hat {u} ^ {2} (t) \tag {9.83}R _ {\hat {y}} (0) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \hat {y} ^ {2} (t) \tag {9.84}R _ {\varepsilon \hat {y}} (i) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon_ {C L} (t) \hat {y} (t - i); \quad i = 1, 2, \dots , n _ {A} \tag {9.85}R _ {\varepsilon \hat {u}} (i) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon_ {C L} (t) \hat {u} (t - d - i); \quad i = 1, 2, \dots , n _ {B} \tag {9.86}R N _ {\varepsilon x} (i) = \frac {R _ {\varepsilon x} (i)}{\left[ R _ {x} (0) \cdot R _ {\varepsilon} (0) \right] ^ {1 / 2}}; \quad x = \hat {y}, \hat {u} \tag {9.87}$$

As a confidence test one can use the criterion:

$$| R N (i) | \leq \frac {\alpha}{\sqrt {N}} \tag {9.88}$$

where α is the confidence level (a typical value is 2.17) and N is the number of data (see Sect. 5.4).

In many practical situations, one either has a previous plant model identified in open loop or several identification algorithms are used on the data collected in closed loop. Then a comparative validation has to be done and useful comparison indicators are provided by $R _ { \varepsilon } ( 0 )$ and max $| R N _ { \varepsilon x } |$ for each model (however, other comparison criteria can be considered).
