# Remarks

• If $n _ { B } + d > n _ { A }$ , the system will have $n _ { B } + d - n _ { A }$ poles at the origin $( z = 0 )$ .   
• One has assumed that $A _ { 0 } , B _ { 0 } , C _ { 0 }$ is a minimal state space realization of the system model (2.1), i.e., that the eventual common factors of $A ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ have been canceled.

In general we will assume that the model of (2.1) and the corresponding transfer function (2.18) is irreducible. However, situations may occur where this is indeed not the case (an estimated model may feature an almost pole zeros cancellation). The properties of the system model in such cases are summarized below:

• The presence of pole zeros cancellations correspond to the existence of unobservable or uncontrollable modes.   
• If the common poles and zeros are stable (they are inside the unit circle) the system is termed stabilizable, i.e., there is a feedback law stabilizing the system.   
• If the common poles and zeros are unstable, the system is not stabilizable (a feedback law stabilizing the system does not exist).

The co-primeness of $A ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is an important property of the model. A characterization of the co-primeness of $A ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ without searching the roots of $A ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is given by the Sylvester Theorem.

Theorem 2.2 (Wolowich 1974; Kailath 1980; Goodwin and Sin 1984) The polynomials $A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) , q ^ { - d } B ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are relatively prime if and only if their eliminant matrix M (known also as the Sylvester Matrix) is nonsingular, where M is a square matrix $r \times r$ with $r = \operatorname* { m a x } ( n _ { A } , n _ { B } + d )$ given by:

$$
\underbrace {\left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c c c c} 1 & 0 & \dots & 0 & 0 & \dots & \dots & 0 \\ a _ {1} & 1 & & \vdots & b _ {1} ^ {\prime} & & & \\ a _ {2} & & & 0 & b _ {2} ^ {\prime} & & & b _ {1} ^ {\prime} \\ & & & 1 & \vdots & & & b _ {2} ^ {\prime} \\ & & & a _ {1} & \vdots & & & \vdots \\ a _ {n _ {A}} & & & a _ {2} & b _ {n _ {B}} ^ {\prime} & & & \vdots \\ 0 & & & \vdots & 0 & \dots & \dots & \ddots \\ 0 & \dots & 0 & a _ {n _ {A}} & 0 & 0 & 0 & b _ {n _ {B ^ {\prime}}} ^ {\prime} \end{array} \right]} _ {n _ {A} + n _ {B} + d} \Bigg \} n _ {A} + n _ {B} + d \tag {2.24}
$$

where: $b _ { i } ^ { \prime } = 0 f o r i = 0 , 1 , \ldots , d ; b _ { i } ^ { \prime } = b _ { i - d } f o r i \geq d + 1 .$
