# 8.3.2 Model Uncertainties and Robust Stability

Figure 8.5 illustrates the effect of uncertainties or of the variations of the parameters of the nominal model on the Nyquist plots of the open-loop transfer function. In general the Nyquist plot corresponding to the nominal model lies inside a tube corresponding to the possible (or accepted) tolerances of parameter variations (or uncertainties) of the plant model.

We will consider an open-loop transfer function $H _ { O L } ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ which differs from the nominal one. For simplicity one assures that the nominal transfer function $H _ { O L } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ ) as well as $H _ { O L } ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ are both stable (the general assumption is that both have the same number of unstable poles, see Åström and Wittenmark 1984; Doyle et al. 1992).

In order to assure the stability of the closed-loop system for an open loop transfer function $H _ { O L } ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ which differs from the nominal one $H _ { O L } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ , the Nyquist plot of $H _ { O L } ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ should leaves the critical point [−1, j 0] on the left when traversed in the sense of the growing frequencies. Looking at Fig. 8.5 one can see that a sufficient condition for this, is that at each frequency the distance between $H _ { O L } ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { O L } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ ) be less than the distance between the nominal open-loop transfer function and the critical point. This is expressed by:

$$
\begin{array}{l} | H _ {O L} ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) - H _ {O L} (z ^ {- 1}) | <   | 1 + H _ {O L} (z ^ {- 1}) | = | S _ {y p} ^ {- 1} (z ^ {- 1}) | \\ = \left| \frac {P (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1}) S (z ^ {- 1})} \right| \tag {8.12} \\ \end{array}
$$

In other terms the curve $| S _ { y p } ( e ^ { - j \omega } ) | ^ { - 1 }$ in dB (which is obtained by symmetry from $| S _ { y p } ( e ^ { - j \omega } ) | )$ will give at each frequency a sufficient condition for the modulus of the tolerated discrepancy between the real open-loop transfer function and the nominal open-loop transfer function in order to guarantee stability.

In general, this tolerance is high in low frequencies where the open-loop gain is high (and $| S _ { y p } ( e ^ { - j \omega } ) |$ is small) and is low at the frequency (or frequencies) where $| S _ { y p } ( e ^ { - j \omega } ) |$ | reaches its maximum $( = \varDelta M ^ { - 1 } )$ . Therefore low modulus margin will imply small tolerance to parameter uncertainties in a specified frequency region.
