# Step I: Estimation of the Plant Model Parameters

As indicated earlier, one can use any parameter estimation algorithm presented in Chaps. 3, 5 and 9 since we operate in a deterministic environment. However, one has to take into account the following:

1. Convergence conditions (positive real type), which are required for some algorithms, will become also convergence conditions for the adaptive control scheme.

2. It is reasonable to use parameter estimation algorithms inspired from those dedicated to the identification in closed loop.

In a deterministic environment, the parameter estimates and the adaptation errors will satisfy the properties resulting from Theorem 3.2 and they will fulfill the points 1 to 5 mentioned in Sect. 12.1. To simplify the analysis, we will assume that a recursive least squares type parameter estimation algorithm will be used. The cases of using recursive least squares on filtered data or appropriate algorithms for closedloop identification are illustrated in the example presented in Sect. 12.4 and in the applications presented in Sect. 12.7.

The plant output can be expressed as:

$$y (t + 1) = \theta^ {T} \phi (t) \tag {12.2}$$

where:

$$\theta^ {T} = [ a _ {1}, \dots , a _ {n _ {A}}, b _ {1}, \dots , b _ {n _ {B}} ] \tag {12.3}\phi^ {T} (t) = [ - y (t), \dots , - y (t - n _ {A} + 1), u (t - d), \dots , u (t - d - n _ {B} + 1) ] \tag {12.4}$$

The a priori output of the adjustable predictor is given by:

$$\hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi (t) \tag {12.5}$$

The a posteriori output of the adjustable predictor is given by:

$$\hat {y} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t + 1) \phi (t) \tag {12.6}$$

where:

$$\hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) = [ \hat {a} _ {1} (t), \dots , \hat {a} _ {n _ {A}} (t), \hat {b} _ {1} (t), \dots , \hat {b} _ {n _ {B}} (t) ] \tag {12.7}$$

Accordingly, the a priori and the a posteriori prediction (adaptation) errors are given by:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) \tag {12.8}\varepsilon (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} (t + 1) \tag {12.9}$$

The parameter adaptation algorithm is:

$$\hat {\theta} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} (t) + F (t) \phi (t) \varepsilon (t + 1) \tag {12.10}F (t + 1) ^ {- 1} = \lambda_ {1} (t) F (t) ^ {- 1} + \lambda_ {2} (t) \phi (t) \phi^ {T} (t);0 < \lambda_ {1} (t) \leq 1; 0 \leq \lambda_ {2} (t) < 2; F (0) > 0 \tag {12.11}\varepsilon (t + 1) = \frac {\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1)}{1 + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)} \tag {12.12}$$

It is also assumed that:
