Figure 8.13 shows the output sensitivity function for a closed-loop system, corresponding to a plant model $A ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 - 0 . 7 z ^ { - 1 } , B ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = 0 . 3 z ^ { - 1 } , d = 2$ and several controllers with integral action. The controllers have been designed using the pole placement for various values of the closed-loop poles obtained from the discretization (with $T _ { S } = 1 )$ of a second-order system with various natural frequencies $\omega _ { 0 } ( 0 . 4 ; 0 . 6 ;$ 1 rad/s) but $\zeta = \mathrm { c o n s t }$ .

One can clearly see that the increase of attenuation in a certain frequency region or the increase of the attenuation band implies necessarily a stronger amplification of the disturbances outside the attenuation band. This is a direct consequence of Property 8.2.

Property 8.4 The effect of disturbances upon the output is canceled at the frequencies where

$$A (e ^ {- j \omega}) S (e ^ {- j \omega}) = A (e ^ {- j \omega}) H _ {S} (e ^ {- j \omega}) S ^ {\prime} (e ^ {- j \omega}) = 0 \tag {8.46}$$

This results immediately from (8.41). Equation (8.46) defines the zeros of the output sensitivity function. The pre-specified part of $S ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ , namely $H _ { S } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ , allows zeros at the desired frequencies to be introduced (see Fig. 8.14). For example:

$$H _ {S} (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 - z ^ {- 1}$$

introduces a zero at the zero frequency and assures the perfect rejection of steady state disturbances.

$$H _ {S} (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 + \alpha z ^ {- 1} + z ^ {- 2}$$

with $\alpha = - 2 \cos { \omega } T _ { S } = - 2 \cos ( 2 \pi f / f _ { s } )$ corresponds to the introduction of a pair of undamped complex zeros at the frequency f (or at the normalized frequency $f / f _ { s } )$ . This will cancel the disturbance effects at this frequency.

$$H _ {S} (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 + \alpha_ {1} z ^ {- 1} + \alpha_ {2} z ^ {- 2}$$

corresponds to the introduction of a pair of damped complex zeros at a certain frequency. The chosen damping will depend upon the desired attenuation at this frequency. Figure 8.14 shows the output sensitivity functions for the cases: $H _ { S } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 - z ^ { - \bar { 1 } }$ and $H _ { S } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = ( 1 - z ^ { - \bar { 1 } } ) ( 1 + z ^ { - 2 } )$ (the same plant model as in Fig. 8.13).

Property 8.5 The modulus of the output sensitivity function is equal to 1, i.e.:

$$| S _ {y p} (e ^ {- j \omega}) | = 1 (0 \mathrm{dB})$$

at the frequencies where:

$$B (e ^ {- j \omega}) R (e ^ {- j \omega}) = B (e ^ {- j \omega}) H _ {R} (e ^ {- j \omega}) R ^ {\prime} (e ^ {- j \omega}) = 0 \tag {8.47}$$
