# 7.7.2 Closed-Loop Poles

One has the following result.

Theorem 7.5 (M’Saad et al. 1993a) The closed-loop poles for the control system minimizing the criterion (7.193) in receding horizon sense subject to the constraints (7.195) are:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) = P _ {D} (q ^ {- 1}) P _ {G P C} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.227}$$

where:

$$P _ {G P C} (q ^ {- 1}) = A H _ {S} + q ^ {- d - 1} \sum_ {j = h _ {i}} ^ {h _ {p}} \gamma_ {j} q ^ {j} [ B ^ {*} H _ {R} - A H _ {S} G _ {j - d} ] \tag {7.228}$$

and $P _ { D } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are the poles of the predictor (7.203).

Therefore, the poles of the predictor appear in the poles of the closed loop and the additional closed-loop poles are introduced by the criterion minimization. Furthermore, if the stochastic disturbance acting on the system can be described as:

$$\bar {A} e _ {y} (t + d + 1) = \bar {B} ^ {*} \bar {e} _ {u} (t) + C e (t + d + 1) \tag {7.229}$$

where $e ( t )$ is a white noise, then taking $P _ { D } = C$ in (7.202) and (7.203), the optimal predictions of $e _ { y } ( t + j )$ will be given by (7.203) where $P _ { D }$ is replaced by C and $E _ { j }$ and $F _ { j }$ are solutions of (7.202) in which $P _ { D }$ is replaced by C. Consequently, the resulting closed-loop polynomial will include C (instead of $P _ { D } )$ .

One can also give immediately two interpretations concerning the choice of $P _ { D }$ (or C) in relation with the pole placement.

1. If one takes $P _ { D }$ as defining the desired dominant poles, the expected effect of the GPC will be to introduce auxiliary poles. Therefore, the choices of $\lambda , h _ { i } , h _ { p } , h _ { c }$ will influence the location of the auxiliary poles.

2. If one replaces in (7.202) and (7.203) $P _ { D }$ by $P _ { F }$ (the desired high-frequency auxiliary poles), the high-frequency behavior (and in particular robustness) will be defined essentially by $P _ { F }$ and the various design parameters of $G P C ( \lambda , h _ { i }$ , $h _ { p } , h _ { c } )$ will be used to match the desired (low-frequency) performances. While this procedure is feasible it may require a significative number of trials due to the complicate relationship between $\lambda , h _ { i } , h _ { p } , h _ { c }$ and the performances in regulation. However, note that by the intrinsic structure of the controller associated to (7.193) this will not affect the tracking performances (which are those of the pole placement).

Proof The closed-loop poles are given by:

$$P = \bar {A} S ^ {\prime} + q ^ {- d - 1} \bar {B} ^ {*} R ^ {\prime} \tag {7.230}$$
