# 7.1 Introduction

We are concerned with the design of digital controllers for single-input/singleoutput systems described by discrete-time models in input-output form.

The control strategies and the corresponding design assume that the discrete-time plant model is known. In general, one has to solve a joint tracking and regulation problem. The design will also incorporate the a priori knowledge upon the disturbances. It is important to note that in many cases the tracking and regulation performances have to be decoupled (as much as possible). This leads us to consider a two-degree of freedom digital controller.

Since the plant model is given in the input/output form, it is also reasonable to search also for a controller structure which will be fed by the measurements of the output and the desired tracking trajectory (or reference signal) and will generate the control $u ( t )$ . This controller will also have an input/output form and will consist of three polynomials in the delay operator $q ^ { - 1 }$ related to the control $u ( t )$ , the output $y ( t )$ and the desired tracking trajectory $y ^ { \star } ( t )$ .

In many cases the design can be done using a polynomial approach which in fact corresponds to a design in the frequency domain. This will allow the introduction of specifications in various frequency ranges both for assuring the nominal performances as well as robustness with respect to plant parameter variations, noise etc. The pole placement strategy is the basic prototype from which a number of designs result as particular cases. However, the same design can be obtained by a synthesis in the time domain starting from a control objective specification in the time domain. Other strategies are naturally introduced in the time domain by the specification of the control objective. However, the resulting design can always be interpreted in terms of a special pole placement.

Comparing the control objectives in the time domain associated with the various control strategies one can classify these strategies in two categories:

1. One step ahead predictive control. In these strategies one computes a prediction of the output at $t + d + 1$ (d integer delay of the plant) namely $\hat { y } ( t + d + 1 )$ as a function of $u ( t ) , u ( t - 1 ) , \ldots , y ( t ) , y ( t - 1 ) , \ldots$ . and one computes $u ( t )$ such that a control objective in terms of $\hat { y } ( t + d + 1 )$ be satisfied. This is illustrated in Fig. 7.1.
