The aim of this chapter is to present the necessary understanding and some methods for designing robust digital controllers starting from the control strategies presented in Chap. 7.1 What is perhaps more important, is the fact that this chapter will provide guidelines for the design of the underlying linear controller used in adaptive control. Since identification is a basic step in implementing a high-performance control system, the designer will have at his disposal one or several models which can be used for the design.

In the context of robust control design, the model used for design will be termed the nominal model. The design for the nominal model will guarantee the nominal stability (i.e., the closed-loop system will be asymptotically stable for the nominal model) and the nominal performance. However, in the presence of uncertainties the various true plant models belong to a family of plant models denoted by P which will be characterized by the nominal model and the uncertainty model (parametric or non parametric). The objective will be to design a control system which will guarantee the stability of the closed-loop system for all the plant models belonging to P. The system will be said to be robustly stable if it is asymptotically stable for all the models belonging to P.

The problem of robust performance is more difficult to solve and adaptive control is a solution for improving the performance of a robust control system. The approach taken here is to consider unstructured uncertainty in the frequency domain (a disc in the complex plane).2 There are several reasons for making this choice.
