$$\phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t) \geq 0 \tag {3.267}$$

which is always satisfied since $F ( t ) \geq 0$ .

The linear block with input $v ( t + 1 ) = u ( t )$ and output $\nu ( t + 1 ) = y ( t )$ belongs to the class $L ( \varLambda )$ for:

$$\Lambda = \lambda_ {2} \geq \max _ {t} \lambda_ {2} (t) \tag {3.268}$$

Therefore, the condition (C.39) of Theorem C.1:

$$\Lambda - \Gamma (t) \geq 0 \tag {3.269}$$

is satisfied and all the conclusions of Theorem C.1 translate in the results (3.244) through (3.248) of Theorem 3.2 taking into account the meaning of $v ( t + 1 )$ ), $\nu ( t + 1 ) , \tilde { \theta } ( t + 1 ) , \omega ( t + 1 )$ .

Equation (3.249) is also obtained from (C.47) taking into account that a term of the form $\textstyle \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { t _ { 1 } } y ^ { T } ( t ) \varDelta y ( t )$ is added in the left hand side when $H ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is output strictly passive. This term which has the specific form $\begin{array} { r } { \delta \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { t _ { 1 } } \nu ^ { 2 } ( t + 1 ) , \delta > 0 } \end{array}$ together with $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { t = 0 } ^ { t _ { 1 } } \phi ^ { T } ( t ) F ( t ) \phi ( t ) \nu ^ { 2 } ( t + 1 ) } \end{array}$ ) resulting from (3.266) yields the result.

The result of (3.252) is obtained from (3.251) by using the Schwartz inequality and the fact that k is finite:

$$\| \hat {\theta} (t + k) - \hat {\theta} (t) \| ^ {2} \leq k \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {k} \| \hat {\theta} (t + i) - \hat {\theta} (t + i - 1) \| ^ {2}$$

The transformed equivalent feedback associated to Theorem 3.2 is shown in Fig. 3.14b. The equivalent feedback path has a local negative feedback with a gain $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \lambda } { 2 } \geq \operatorname* { m a x } _ { t } \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } ( t ) } { 2 } } \end{array}$ t λ2(t)2 which makes the transformed feedback path passive. However, in , order that the whole feedback system remains unchanged, a gain $- \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } } { 2 }$ should be added in parallel to the feedforward path and, therefore, the equivalent transformed linear path will be characterized by the transfer function $[ H ( z ^ { - 1 } ) - { \textstyle \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } } { 2 } } ]$ .

The same positive real condition of Theorem 3.2 holds for the case of “integral + proportional” with time-varying adaptation gain, i.e., for:

$$\hat {\theta} _ {I} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} _ {I} (t) + F _ {I} (t) \phi (t) \nu (t + 1) \tag {3.270}\hat {\theta} _ {p} (t + 1) = F _ {p} (t) \phi (t) v (t + 1) \tag {3.271}F _ {I} (t + 1) ^ {- 1} = \lambda_ {1} (t) F _ {I} (t) ^ {- 1} + \lambda_ {2} (t) \phi (t) \phi^ {T} (t) \tag {3.272}F _ {p} (t) = \alpha (t) F _ {I} (t); \quad \alpha (t) > - 0. 5 \tag {3.273}\hat {\theta} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} _ {I} (t + 1) + \hat {\theta} _ {p} (t + 1) \tag {3.274}$$

See Landau (1979).

Note that positive values of the proportional gain related to the magnitude of φ allows to relax the positive real condition. See Tomizuka (1982) and Sect. 3.3.5.
