If the plant to be controlled has constant parameters over a large time horizon and if one considers a large horizon N for plant model parameters estimation, followed by the updating of the controller based on the results of the plant model identification in closed loop, one gets what is called the iterative identification in closed loop and controller redesign. This can be considered as a limit case of indirect adaptive control. The main difference is that the plant model parameters estimation is done in closed loop in the presence of a linear controller with fixed parameters. This suggests that among all the parameter estimation algorithms which allow us to obtain a stable indirect adaptive control scheme, it may be useful to use those dedicated to identification in closed loop (see Chap. 9).

For the case of plant models with unknown but constant parameters over a large horizon, one may ask what is the best choice among:

• adaptive control with controller updating each sampling instant;   
• adaptive control with controller updating each N sampling instants;   
• plant model identification in closed loop followed by the redesign of the controller.

The answer is an “engineering” type answer, since essentially a trade-off between computation power available and performances will, to a large extent, dictate the choice of one or another strategy.

Adaptive pole placement and adaptive generalized predictive control are probably the most popular indirect adaptive control strategies used in applications. We have chosen adaptive pole placement as the prototype for the analysis of the indirect adaptive control schemes (Sect. 12.2). The results can be applied mutatis mutandis to the other indirect adaptive control strategies. Robustness aspects related to the violation of the basic hypotheses will be examined in detail in Sect. 12.3. Adaptive generalized predictive control and adaptive linear quadratic control will be presented in Sects. 12.4 and 12.5, respectively.

A non-exhaustive list of references detailing various indirect adaptive control strategies is given below.

Adaptive pole placement (Goodwin and Sin 1984; Anderson and Johnstone 1985; de Larminat 1980, 1984, 1986; Guo 1996; Lozano and Goodwin 1985; Lozano 1992; Giri et al. 1990, 1989; de Larminat and Raynaud 1988; Middleton et al. 1988; Mareels and Polderman 1996)   
Adaptive generalized predictive control (Clarke and Mohtadi 1989; Bitmead et al. 1990; Giri et al. 1991; M’Saad et al. 1993a)   
Adaptive linear quadratic control (Samson 1982; Lam 1982; Ossman and Kamen 1987; Giri et al. 1991; M’Saad and Sanchez 1992)
