# III. PRELIMINARIES: PRESCRIBED ANDOPTIMAL CONTROL OF SWIMMING INTURBULENCE

In this introductory Section we follow [1] where stochastic flows, as well as a steady state stochastic optimal control, were discussed in an idealized setting. The goal of this section is to set stages for further discussion which is original to this manuscript going beyond the preliminary theoretical estimations of [1] and using these to develop general RL approach for dealing with a realistic flow, discussed in the following.

We start this section in Section III A by setting up the basic equations for the stochastic dynamics and the statistics of separation between pairs of particles in a general large scale chaotic flow conditioned on a prescribed control. These expressions will depend on the finite-time statistics of the largest Lyapunov exponent of the chaotic flow, which is also discussed here.

Then in Section III B we will describe how the general theory is extended to the case of the prescribed linear control. It will allow us to get expression for the probability distribution of inter-swimming separation. We observe that even in the case of sufficiently strong prescribed control the probability distribution shows extended algebraic tails. However, the prescribed control is too conservative, which leads us to the Stochastic Optimal Control (SOC) formulation in Section III D where we briefly discuss how the SOC optimal value of the linear control can be found in the stationary regime of the SK flow.
