It is important to emphasize that we arrive at the RL solution in a number of steps, which included analytical analysis reported earlier in [1], and which we briefly review in Section III, and also extended in this manuscript. The main handicap of the analytic analysis is that it deals with an idealized setting where only a prescribed and thus only conservative (suboptimal) control applies. Therefore, RL becomes the universal and datadriven tool which allows us to overcome the handicap of the theory and help to develop a much more general, robust, data-driven and assymptotically optimal approach to controlling the separation between active and passive particles. Additional nuances of this manuscript RL approach are revealed in the flowchart of relations between different methods applied to the problem of the swimming control in realistic flows illustrated in Fig. (2) which we briefly outline next.

Swim Control in Realistic Flows: Our primary objective is to maintain proximity between passive and active particles by maximizing a time-integrated and averaged reward function. We develop and evaluate several control policies for the active particle, tailored to the available information about flow statistics (leading Lyapunov exponent):

• Prescribed Control: In this case, used as a benchmark for the RL schemes described in the following, the control force exerted by the active particle is proportional to the separation with the coefficient of the proportionality prescribed/fixed.

• Actor-Critic Agents: This is a standard RL architecture. Here, both the policy (actor) and a guiding principle based on the so-called value function (critique) are built based on Neural Networks (NN). In this work, we use two AC methods for comparison with our AP method: Advantage Actor-Critic (A2C) [3] and Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) [4].   
• Actor-Physicist Agent: This method modifies the AC framework, in this work the actor side of our AP agent is based on the A2C architecture [3]. While the physicist side – replacing critic – uses an analytically derived prescribed control estimate of the value function instead of its NN-version. This analytic estimation of the value function – based on the Stochastic Optimal Control (SOC) formulation applied to an idelialized, so-called Batchelor-Kraichnan (BK) modeling of the stochastic flow, but applied to a realistic flow – is described in Section IV.
