It can thus be concluded from this example that the application of a constant input does not allow to distinguish the two models, since they both have the same steady state gain.

If the frequency characteristics of both systems are represented, they will superpose each other at zero frequency and the difference between them will appear for frequencies other than zero since the poles of the two systems are different. Such a situation is shown in Fig. 3.16. Figure 3.16 indicates that in order to highlight the difference between the two models (i.e., between the parameters) a signal $u ( t ) = \sin \omega t ( \omega \neq 0 )$ must be applied instead of signal $u ( t ) = \mathrm { c o n s t }$ .

Let us analyze the phenomenon in more detail. From (3.297) and (3.298), one obtains:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} (t + 1) \\ = (a _ {1} - \hat {a} _ {1}) y (t) + (b _ {1} - \hat {b} _ {1}) u (t) = 0 \tag {3.303} \\ \end{array}
$$

From (3.297), y(t) can be expressed as a function of u(t) using the system transfer operator:

$$y (t) = \frac {b _ {1} q ^ {- 1}}{1 + a _ {1} q ^ {- 1}} u (t) \tag {3.304}$$

Introducing the expression $y ( t )$ given by (3.304) in (3.303) and after multiplying by $( 1 + a _ { 1 } q ^ { - 1 } )$ , one obtains:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon (t + 1) = [ (a _ {1} - \hat {a} _ {1}) b _ {1} q ^ {- 1} + (b _ {1} - \hat {b} _ {1}) (1 + a _ {1} q ^ {- 1}) ] u (t) \\ = [ (b _ {1} - \hat {b} _ {1}) + q ^ {- 1} (b _ {1} \hat {a} _ {1} - a _ {1} \hat {b} _ {1}) ] u (t) = 0 \tag {3.305} \\ \end{array}
$$

We are concerned with finding the characteristics of u(t) so that (3.305) implies zero parametric errors. Denoting:

$$b _ {1} - \hat {b} _ {1} = \alpha_ {0}; \quad b _ {1} \hat {a} _ {1} - a _ {1} \hat {b} _ {1} = \alpha_ {1} \tag {3.306}$$

Equation (3.305) is thus written as:

$$\left(\alpha_ {0} + \alpha_ {1} q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) = 0 \tag {3.307}$$

which is a difference equation having a solution of the discretized exponential type.

Let us take:

$$u (t) = z ^ {t} = e ^ {s T _ {s} t} \tag {3.308}$$

where $T _ { s }$ is the sampling period. Equation (3.307) is then written:

$$\left(\alpha_ {0} + z ^ {- 1} \alpha_ {1}\right) z ^ {t} = \left(z \alpha_ {0} + \alpha_ {1}\right) z ^ {t - 1} = 0 \tag {3.309}$$

and it will be verified for z, which is the solution of the characteristic equation:

$$z \alpha_ {0} + \alpha_ {1} = 0 \tag {3.310}$$

One obtains:

$$z = - \frac {\alpha_ {1}}{\alpha_ {0}} = e ^ {\sigma T _ {s}}; \quad \sigma = \text { real }; \left(\frac {\alpha_ {1}}{\alpha_ {0}} < 0\right) \tag {3.311}$$
