$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = 0 \tag {6.34}$$

Proof Observe first that from (6.23) and (6.27) one gets:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \nu (t + 1) = y (t + 1) + \hat {A} ^ {*} (t + 1) y (t) - \hat {B} ^ {*} (t + 1) q ^ {- d} u (t) \\ = \hat {A} (t + 1) y (t + 1) - \hat {B} ^ {*} (t + 1) q ^ {- d} u (t) \tag {6.35} \\ \end{array}
$$

and respectively:

$$\nu (t + d + 1) = \hat {A} (t + d + 1) y (t + d + 1) - \hat {B} ^ {*} (t + d + 1) u (t) \tag {6.36}$$

Passing both terms of (6.36) through the transfer operator $\hat { E } ( t )$ , one gets:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \hat {E} (t) v (t + d + 1) = \hat {E} (t) \hat {A} (t + d + 1) y (t + d + 1) - \hat {E} (t) B ^ {*} (t + d + 1) u (t) \\ = \hat {E} (t) \hat {A} (t) y (t + d + 1) - E (t) \hat {B} ^ {*} (t) u (t) \\ + \hat {E} (t) [ \hat {A} (t + d + 1) - \hat {A} (t) ] y (t + d + 1) \\ - \hat {E} (t) [ \hat {B} ^ {*} (t + d + 1) - \hat {B} ^ {*} (t) ] u (t) \tag {6.37} \\ \end{array}
$$

But, from (6.32):

$$\hat {E} (t) \hat {A} (t) = P - \hat {F} (t) q ^ {- d - 1} \tag {6.38}$$

and taking into account (6.38) and (6.31), (6.37) becomes:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \hat {E} (t) \nu (t + d + 1) - \hat {E} (t) [ \hat {A} (t + d + 1) - \hat {A} (t) ] y (t + d + 1) \\ + \hat {E} (t) [ \hat {B} ^ {*} (t + d + 1) - \hat {B} ^ {*} (t) ] u (t) \tag {6.39} \\ \end{array}
$$

From Theorem 3.2, one has that:

• $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t \to \infty } \nu ( t + d + 1 ) = 0 ; } \end{array}$   
• $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } [ \hat { A } ( t + d + 1 ) - \hat { A } ( t ) ] = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } [ \hat { B } ^ { * } ( t + d + 1 ) - \hat { B } ^ { * } ( t ) ] = 0 ; } \end{array}$   
• $\hat { A } ( t )$ and ${ \hat { B } } ^ { * } ( t )$ have bounded elements.

The latest result implies that the solutions $\hat { E } ( t )$ and $\hat { F } ( t )$ of (6.32) will have bounded elements. Taking also into account that $u ( t )$ and $y ( t )$ are bounded, one can conclude that the right term of the equality (6.39) goes asymptotically to zero, which implies (6.34). -

Remark The stability proof for the indirect adaptation of the predictor uses the following facts:

(1) The adaptation error in the parameter estimation schemes goes to zero.   
(2) The variations of the estimated parameters go to zero.   
(3) The parameter estimates are bounded for all t.   
(4) The design equation, in this case (6.32), provides bounded solutions for bounded plant parameter estimates.   
(5) $y ( t )$ and $u ( t )$ are bounded.

Therefore, a design equation can be combined with any parameter estimation scheme which assures properties 1 through 3 leading to an adaptive system for which a representative error (for performance evaluation) is asymptotically driven to zero provided that the computed parameters and the input and output of the plant are bounded. As will be shown for indirect adaptive control, the difficulty in some cases arises from the fact that properties (4) and (5) are not necessarily satisfied for all the possible values of the estimated plant parameters.
