# 13.2.4 Supervisor

The supervisor decides the output of which controller should be applied to the real plant at each instant. The decision is based on a monitoring signal and a switching logic. The monitoring signal is a function of the estimation error to indicate the best estimator at each time. It may be defined as follows:

$$J _ {i} (t) = \alpha \varepsilon_ {i} ^ {2} (t) + \beta \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {t} e ^ {- \lambda (t - j)} \varepsilon_ {i} ^ {2} (j); \quad \alpha \geq 0; \beta , \lambda > 0 \tag {13.2}$$

where j is the time index and α and $\beta$ are the weighting factors on the instantaneous measures and the long term accuracy. λ is a forgetting factor which also assures the boundedness of the criterion for bounded $\varepsilon _ { i } ( t )$ . Therefore, the design parameters for the switching part of the control system are α, $\beta$ and λ. If we choose a large value for $\alpha / \beta$ and λ, we will obtain a very quick response to the abrupt parameter changing but a bad response with respect to disturbances. It means that, an output disturbance will generate an unwanted switching to another controller which results in a poor control. Contrary, a small value for $\alpha / \beta$ and λ makes the criterion a good indicator of steady-state identifier accuracy, which reduces the number of unwanted switching but leads to a slow response with respect to the parameter variations.

The switching logic is based on the monitoring signal. A switching signal $\sigma ( t )$ indicates which control input should be applied to the plant. In order to avoid chattering, a minimum dwell-time between two consecutive switchings or a hysteresis is usually considered. The switching logic plays an important role on the stability of the switching system which will be discussed in the next section.

Figure 13.2 shows the flowcharts of two common switching logics. A combination of two logics (dwell-time and hysteresis) may also be considered. A small value for $T _ { d }$ , dwell-time, gives too frequent switchings and may lead to instability, while a large $T _ { d }$ leads to a slow response system.

A hysteresis cycle with a design parameter h is considered between two switchings. It means that a switching to another controller will occur if the performance index concerning a model is improved by $h J _ { i }$ . With hysteresis, large errors are rapidly detected and a better controller is chosen. However, the algorithm does not switch to a better controller if the performance improvement is not significant.
