# 9.4.2 Closed-Loop Output Error Identification Algorithms

Consider the plant model (9.67). The closed-loop output error algorithms use the following predictor for the closed-loop system:

$$\hat {y} (t) = \hat {G} \hat {u} (t) \tag {9.74}$$

where $\hat { u } ( t ) = \hat { S } _ { y p } r _ { u } ( t )$ and $\hat { S } _ { y p }$ is the output sensitivity function of the closed loop predictor. Then the prediction error is given by:

$$\varepsilon_ {C L} (t) = G u (t) + v (t) - \hat {G} \hat {u} (t) \tag {9.75}$$

Adding and subtracting $G \hat { u } ( t )$ to the RHS of the above equation, one gets:

$$\varepsilon_ {C L} (t) = (G - \hat {G}) \hat {u} (t) + G [ u (t) - \hat {u} (t) ] + v (t) \tag {9.76}$$

and using (9.11) and (9.7), one gets:

$$\varepsilon_ {C L} (t) = S _ {y p} [ (G - \hat {G}) \hat {u} (t) + v (t) ] \tag {9.77}$$

Substituting now ${ \hat { u } } ( t )$ by $\hat { S } _ { y p } r _ { u } ( t )$ ) and minimizing ${ \bf E } \{ \varepsilon _ { C L } ^ { 2 } ( t ) \}$ , the resulting bias distribution will be:

$$\hat {\theta} ^ {*} = \arg \min _ {\hat {\theta} \in \mathcal {D}} \int_ {- \pi} ^ {\pi} | S _ {y p} | ^ {2} [ | G - \hat {G} | ^ {2} | \hat {S} _ {y p} | ^ {2} \phi_ {r _ {u}} (\omega) + \phi_ {v} (\omega) ] d \omega \tag {9.78}$$

This expression shows that:

• The estimation of the plant model parameters is unbiased when G is in the model set.   
• The bias distribution is not affected by the spectrum of the noise (which is the case for the filtered open-loop methods).   
• The bias distribution is not only weighted by the sensitivity function but is further weighted by the estimated sensitivity function.

The closed-loop output error can be minimized using the classical optimization methods, e.g. Newton-Raphson algorithm, or by the AF-CLOE algorithm. One of the properties of AF-CLOE is that $\phi _ { f } ( t ) = S / \hat { P } ( t ) \phi ( t )$ is the gradient of $\hat { y } ( t )$ (see Problem 9.10) and therefore $- \phi _ { f } ( t ) \varepsilon _ { C L } ( t + 1 )$ is the gradient of $\varepsilon _ { C L } ^ { 2 } ( t + 1 )$ . Therefore, the AF-CLOE algorithm can be interpreted as the gradient algorithm in Sect. 3.2.1. In a stochastic environment, the asymptotic convergence of the gradient algorithm to the minimum of ${ \bf E } \{ \varepsilon _ { C L } ^ { 2 } ( t + 1 ) \}$ } can be proved using the stochastic approximation method (Robbins and Monro 1951) under some mild conditions on a scalar adaptation gain.
