# 5.1 Recursive Identification in the Context of System Identification

In this chapter, we will focus on the identification of plant models operating in open loop using recursive parameter estimation. The recursive parameter estimation algorithms play a crucial role in the identification of plant models in real time.

From a practical point of view, plant model identification is a key starting point for designing a high-performance linear controller, but it is also a major step toward the design of an appropriate adaptive control scheme. Furthermore, the use of recursive identification techniques in real time is in many cases a first step toward the implementation of an adaptive control. It also serves for the initialization of adaptive control systems. It is therefore logical to consider the use of recursive parameter estimation algorithms for doing system identification.

The background in recursive parameter estimation both in a deterministic and stochastic environment is presented in Chaps. 3 and 4, and can be used to analyze or to synthesize recursive parameter estimation algorithms. Nevertheless, recursive parameter estimation represents only one aspect of system identification and it is important to locate it in the general context of system identification.

Identification of dynamic systems is an experimental approach for determining a dynamic model of a system. It includes four steps:

1. input-output data acquisition under an experimental protocol;   
2. selection (or estimation) of the model complexity (structure);   
3. estimation of the model parameters;   
4. validation of the identified model (structure of the model and values of the parameters).

A complete identification operation must comprise the four stages indicated above. The specific methods used at each step depend on the type of model desired (parametric or non parametric, continuous-time or discrete-time). In our case, we will focus on the identification of discrete-time input-output models described by difference equations using recursive parameter estimation methods. As will be seen, the algorithms which will be used for parameter estimation will depend on the assumptions made on the noise disturbing the measurements, assumptions which have to be confirmed by the model validation.
