# 8.8 A Design Example: Robust Digital Control of a Flexible Transmission

The flexible transmission has been presented in Sect. 1.4. Three models have been identified (see Sect. 5.9) for the 0% load (L00), 50% load (L50) and 100% load (L100).

An RST controller has been designed. Since the adaptive control system responds only to the structured parametric uncertainty by the adjustment of model parameters, the unstructured modeling errors should be taken in account by the linear control law associated to the adaptive scheme. Since the unstructured modeling errors are in general large at high frequencies, the input sensitivity function $S _ { u p }$ (the transfer function between output disturbance and plant input) which is related to additive uncertainties, should be low in these frequencies. For the flexible transmission system, this can be achieved using the pole placement with sensitivity function shaping (Sect. 8.6 and Landau and Karimi 1998; Landau and Zito 2005), in the following way:

1. choice of a fixed term in the numerator of the controller in the form of (1 + $\alpha z ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { n } , 0 . 5 \leq \alpha \leq 1 , n \geq 1$ ;   
2. choice of the auxiliary closed-loop poles near to the high-frequency poles of the plant.

The first one has an effect only in the very high frequencies (between 0.4 to 0.5 $f / f _ { s } )$ , whereas the second one decrease significantly the input sensitivity function in middle and high frequencies (between 0.2 to $0 . 5 ~ f / f _ { s } )$ . The effects of these techniques can be easily shown in the following example.

Consider the discrete-time model of the flexible transmission system in the noload case. A first pole placement controller is designed with the following specifications:

1. a pair of complex dominant poles with the frequency of the first vibration mode of the plant model but with a damping factor of 0.8;   
2. four auxiliary poles at 0.1 i.e. $( 1 - 0 . 1 z ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { 4 }$   
3. an integrator in the controller.
