# 7.5 Tracking and Regulation with Weighted Input

This control strategy can be considered as an extension of the tracking and regulation with independent objectives and was introduced by Clarke and Gawthrop (1975). This extension may be interpreted as weighting the control energy resulting from tracking and regulation with independent objectives design method.

This weighting results in the modification of the polynomial $S ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ of the controller. As a consequence the system zeros will not be simplified and the closed-loop poles will differ from the specified ones. Since the zeros of the plant model will not be simplified, this method may work for certain plant models with unstable zeros (in general for the plant models with stable poles).

In brief this design method makes it possible to

• reduce the control energy with a single tuning parameter;   
• control certain types of plants having discrete-time models with unstable zeros but the resulting closed-loop poles will differ from the desired ones.

The hypothesis (H3) from tracking and regulation with independent objectives is replaced by:

(H3) $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ may have stable or unstable zeros, but there is a polynomial $\boldsymbol { Q } ( \boldsymbol { q } ^ { - 1 } )$ and $\lambda > 0$ such that $\lambda Q ( q ^ { - 1 } ) A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) + B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ has all its zeros inside the unit circle.

The design can be obtained by considering one of the following three control criteria in the time domain which lead to the same control law.

Design problem Find $u ( t ) = f _ { u } ( y ( t ) , y ( t - 1 ) , \ldots , u ( t - 1 ) , u ( t - 2 ) , \ldots )$ such that:

1.

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon_ {0} (t + d + 1) = P (q ^ {- 1}) [ y (t + d + 1) - y ^ {\star} (t + d + 1) ] + \lambda Q (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) \\ = 0 \tag {7.137} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $\lambda > 0$ and $\boldsymbol { Q } ( \boldsymbol { q } ^ { - 1 } )$ is a monic polynomial,1 or

2.

$$
\begin{array}{l} J _ {1} (t + d + 1) = \{P (q ^ {- 1}) [ y (t + d + 1) - y ^ {\star} (t + d + 1) ] \\ \left. + \lambda Q \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) \right\} ^ {2} \tag {7.138} \\ \end{array}
$$

is minimized, or

3.

$$
\begin{array}{l} J _ {2} (t + d + 1) = \{P (q ^ {- 1}) [ y (t + d + 1) - y ^ {\star} (t + d + 1) ] \} ^ {2} \\ + b _ {1} \lambda [ Q (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) ] ^ {2} \tag {7.139} \\ \end{array}
$$

is minimized.

A typical form for $\boldsymbol { Q } ( \boldsymbol { q } ^ { - 1 } )$ is

$$Q \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) = 1 - q ^ {- 1} \tag {7.140}$$
