# 5.11 Problems

5.1 Analyze the behavior of the filtered output error (FOE) algorithm (Sect. 5.5.3) in a stochastic environment using the averaging method presented in Sect. 4.2.

5.2 For the instrumental variable with auxiliary model (Sect. 5.5.4) derive the adaptation error for ${ \hat { \theta } } ( t ) = { \hat { \theta } } =$ constant (5.100).

5.3 Work out the details of convergence analysis of the extended least squares algorithm in a stochastic environment using the averaging method (Sect. 4.2) and the martingale approach (Sect. 4.3).

5.4 For an ARMAX model of the form (5.11) develop an instrumental variable method using delayed observations $y _ { V I } ( t ) = y ( t - i )$ in order to obtain unbiased parameter estimates with a least squares type predictor (Banon and Aguilar-Martin 1972).

5.5 Develop the expression of the asymptotic frequency distribution of the bias for the various identification algorithms given in Table 5.1.

5.6 Generate an input file for a simulated model:

$$
\begin{array}{l} y (t + 1) = 1. 5 y (t) - 0. 7 y (t - 1) + u (t - 1) + 0. 5 u (t - 2) \\ + 0. 5 e (t - 1) - 0. 2 e (t) + e (t + 1) \\ \end{array}
$$

where $e ( t )$ is a white noise, and $u ( t )$ is a PRBS generated by a shift register with 8 cells (length: 255 samples).

(a) Examine the effect of the noise/signal ratio upon the bias of the estimated parameter when using recursive least squares.

(b) For a value of the noise/signal ratio which gives significant bias on the recursive least squares, try the other algorithms given in Table 5.1.

Use the parametric distance $[ ( \theta - \hat { \theta } ) ^ { T } ( \theta - \hat { \theta } ) ] ^ { 1 / 2 }$ to globally evaluate the bias. Discuss the validation results.
