The relationship (8.12) expresses a robustness condition in terms of the variations of the open-loop transfer function (controller + plant). It is interesting to express this in terms of the variations of the plant model. One way to do this, is to observe that (8.12) can be rewritten as:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left| \frac {B ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) R (z ^ {- 1})}{A ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) S (z ^ {- 1})} - \frac {B (z ^ {- 1}) R (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1}) S (z ^ {- 1})} \right| = \left| \frac {R (z ^ {- 1})}{S (z ^ {- 1})} \right| \cdot \left| \frac {B ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1})}{A ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1})} - \frac {B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} \right| \\ <   \left| \frac {P (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1}) S (z ^ {- 1})} \right| \tag {8.13} \\ \end{array}
$$

Multiplying both sides of (8.13) by $\textstyle | { \frac { S ( z ^ { - 1 } ) } { R ( z ^ { - 1 } ) } } |$ S(z−1) one gets:

$$\left| \frac {B ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1})}{A ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1})} - \frac {B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} \right| \leq \left| \frac {P (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1}) R (z ^ {- 1})} \right| = | S _ {u p} ^ {- 1} (z ^ {- 1}) | \tag {8.14}$$

The left hand side of (8.14) expresses in fact an additive uncertainty for the nominal plant model. The inverse of the modulus of the input sensitivity function will give a sufficient condition for the tolerated additive variations (or uncertainties) of the nominal plant model in order to guarantee stability. Large values of the input sensitivity function in certain frequency range will imply low tolerance to uncertainties in this frequency range. It will also mean that at these frequencies high activity of the input will result under the effect of disturbances.

One can also consider the relative size of the variations of the nominal plant model which are tolerated. One then obtains from (8.14):

$$\frac {\left| \frac {B ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1})}{A ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1})} - \frac {B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} \right|}{\left| \frac {B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} \right|} \leq \left| \frac {P (z ^ {- 1})}{B (z ^ {- 1}) R (z ^ {- 1})} \right| = \left| S _ {y b} ^ {- 1} (z ^ {- 1}) \right| \tag {8.15}$$

The inverse of the modulus of the noise sensitivity function (the complementary sensitivity function) will give a sufficient condition for the tolerated relative size variations (or uncertainties) of the nominal plant model in order to guarantee stability.

The above development allows to introduce various models for uncertainties under the form of disk uncertainties with a radius depending upon the frequency.

1. Additive uncertainties (Fig. 8.6)

$$G ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) = G (z ^ {- 1}) + \delta (z ^ {- 1}) W _ {a} (z ^ {- 1}) \tag {8.16}$$

where $\delta ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is any stable transfer function having the property $\| \delta ( z ^ { - 1 } ) \| _ { \infty } \leq 1$ and $W _ { a } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is a stable transfer function.

This implies that:

$$| G ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) - G (z ^ {- 1}) | _ {\max} = \| G ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) - G (z ^ {- 1}) \| _ {\infty} = \| W _ {a} (z ^ {- 1}) \| _ {\infty} \tag {8.17}$$
