As indicated at the beginning of this section the use of these control strategies requires the knowledge of the plant model. These plant models can be obtained by system identification in open loop or by identification in closed loop if a controller already exists.

If the parameters of the plant model vary during operation, a robust control design will be able to assure satisfactory performance in a region of parameter variations around the nominal model. The robustness issues will be discussed in Chap. 8. However, for large variations of the plant parameters or fine tuning of the controller an adaptive control solution has to be considered using in general the “ad hoc” certainty equivalence principle i.e., the plant models will be replaced by their estimates and the design will be done based on these estimates.

The canonical structure of the two-degree of freedom digital controllers which is common to all the control strategies will be presented in Sect. 7.2. Pole placement will be discussed in Sect. 7.3. Tracking and regulation with independent objectives which can be viewed either as a generalization of “model reference control” or as a particular case of pole placement will be examined in Sect. 7.4. The extension of the design for the case where a weighting on the control is considered will be presented in Sect. 7.5. Section 7.6 is dedicated to minimum variance tracking and regulation which is in fact the stochastic counterpart of tracking and regulation with independent objectives. Long range predictive control strategies will be presented in Sect. 7.7 (generalized predictive control) and in Sect. 7.8 (linear quadratic control).
