• Chapter 4 is devoted to the analysis of parameter adaptation algorithms in a stochastic environment.   
• Chapter 5 discusses recursive plant model identification in open loop which is an immediate application of PAAs on the one hand and an unavoidable step in starting an adaptive controller on the other.   
• Chapter 6 is devoted to the synthesis of adaptive predictors.   
• Chapter 7 covers digital control strategies which are used in adaptive control. One step ahead predictive control and long-range predictive control are presented in a unified manner.   
• Chapter 8 discusses the robust digital control design problem and provides techniques for achieving required robustness by shaping the sensitivity functions.   
• Digital control techniques can be combined with the recursive plant model identification in closed loop to obtain an adaptive controller. These recursive identification techniques are discussed in Chap. 9.   
• The issue of robustification of parameter adaptation algorithm in the context of adaptive control is addressed in Chap. 10.   
• For special types of plant model structures and control strategies, appropriate parametrization of the plant model allows direct adjustment of the parameters of the controllers yielding so called direct adaptive control schemes. Direct adaptive control is the subject of Chap. 11.   
• Indirect adaptive control which combines in real-time plant model parameter estimation in closed loop with the redesign of the controller is discussed in Chap. 12.   
• Multimodel adaptive control with switching, which combines robust control and adaptive control, is discussed in Chap. 13 (new in the second edition).   
• Rejection of unknown disturbances is the objective of adaptive regulation which is the subject of Chap. 14 (new in the second edition).   
• Adaptive feedforward compensation of disturbances is discussed in Chap. 15 (new in the second edition).   
• Chapter 16 is devoted to the practical aspects of implementing adaptive controllers.

Chapters 5, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 include applications using the techniques presented in these chapters. A number of appendices which summarize important background topics are included.

Problems and simulation exercises are included in most of the chapters.
