# 11.2.1 Basic Design

The tracking and regulation with independent objectives for the case of known plant model parameters has been discussed in detail in Sect. 7.4. For the development of a direct adaptive control scheme, the time-domain design discussed in Sect. 7.4.2 is useful.

The plant model (with unknown parameters) is assumed to be described by:

$$
\begin{array}{l} A (q ^ {- 1}) y (t) = q ^ {- d} B (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) \\ = q ^ {- d - 1} B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) \tag {11.1} \\ \end{array}
$$

where u(t) and y(t) are the input and the output of the plant respectively.

In the case of known parameters, the objective is to find a control

$$u (t) = f _ {u} [ y (t), y (t - 1), \dots , u (t - 1), u (t - 2), \dots ]$$

such that

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = P \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) \left[ y (t + d + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) \right] = 0 \tag {11.2}$$

where $P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ is an asymptotically stable polynomial defined by the designer. For the case of unknown plant model parameters the objective will be to find a control

$$u (t) = f _ {u} [ \hat {\theta} _ {c} (t), y (t), y (t - 1), \dots , u (t - 1), u (t - 2), \dots ]$$

with {u(t)} and {y(t)} bounded, such that:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = 0 \tag {11.3}$$

where $\hat { \theta } _ { c } ( t )$ denotes the current controller parameters estimates. Observe that $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + d + 1 )$ is a measure of the discrepancy between the desired and achieved performance, and as such is a potential candidate to be the adaptation error. This quantity can be generated at each sample $( y ^ { * } ( t + d + 1 )$ is known d + 1 steps ahead).

The next step toward the design of an adaptive control scheme is to replace the fixed controller given in (7.107) or (7.111) by an adjustable controller. Since the performance error for a certain value of plant model parameters will be caused by the misalignment of the controller parameters values, it is natural to consider an adjustable controller which has the same structure as in the linear case with known plant parameters and where the fixed parameters will be replaced by adjustable ones. It will be the task of the adaptation algorithm to drive the controller parameters towards the values assuring the satisfaction of (11.3). Therefore, the control law in the adaptive case will be chosen as:

$$\hat {S} (t, q ^ {- 1}) u (t) + \hat {R} (t, q ^ {- 1}) y (t) = P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) \tag {11.4}$$

where:
