# 11.4 Adaptive Minimum Variance Tracking and Regulation

The minimum variance tracking and regulation control algorithm for the case of known plant and disturbance model parameters is presented in Sect. 7.6. The objective of this section is to present the direct adaptive version of this control strategy for the case of unknown plant and disturbance model parameters, to analyze it and to examine several important special cases and in particular the case of adaptive minimum variance regulation (Åström and Wittenmark 1973).

As in the case of parameter identification and adaptive prediction in stochastic environment, due to the presence of noise, one typically uses decreasing adaptation gain in order to have convergence of the estimated parameters toward constant values. The resulting schemes are currently called self-tuning minimum variance tracking and regulation.

In the case of known parameters, the strong relationship between tracking and regulation with independent objectives and minimum variance tracking and regulation was pointed out. This strong resemblance carry over in the adaptive case, where the adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation can be viewed as the stochastic version of tracking and regulation with independent objectives (called also stochastic model reference adaptive control) (Landau 1981, 1982a; Dugard et al. 1982).

As with the development of the adaptive tracking and regulation with independent objectives scheme, one can consider two approaches for deriving the direct adaptive version of the minimum variance tracking and regulation

(1) Use the difference between the plant output y(t) and the reference trajectory $y ^ { * } ( t )$ as an adaptation error and find an adaptation mechanism for the controller parameters which drive this quantity asymptotically (in stochastic sense) towards the optimal value obtained in the case of known parameters. For the case $d = 0$ , this can be expressed for example as:

$$\operatorname{Prob} \left\{\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} [ y (t + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + 1) ] = e (t + 1) \right\} = 1$$

where $e ( t + 1 )$ is a white noise sequence, or:

$$\lim _ {N \rightarrow \infty} \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} [ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) - e (t + 1) ] ^ {2} = 0 \quad \text { a . s . }$$
