To guide readers, the book contains various applications of control techniques but it is our belief that without a solid mathematical understanding of the adaptation techniques available, they will not be able to apply them creatively to new and difficult situations.
The book has grown out of several survey papers, tutorial and courses delivered to various audiences (graduate students, practicing engineers, etc.) in various countries, of the research in the field done by the authors (mostly at Laboratoire d’Automatique de Grenoble, now the Control Department of GIPSA-LAB (Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble/CNRS), HEUDYASIC (Université Technologique de Compiègne/CNRS), CIN-VESTAV (Mexico), GREYC (Caen) and the Laboratoire d’Automatique of EPFL (Lausanne)), and of the long and rich practical experience of the authors.
On the one hand, this new edition reflects new developments in the field both in terms of techniques and applications and, on the other, it puts a number of techniques into proper perspective as a result of feedback from applications.

Expected Audience The book is intended as a textbook for graduate students as well as a basic reference for practicing engineers facing the problem of designing adaptive control systems. Control researchers from other areas will find a comprehensive presentation of the field with bridges to various other control design techniques.

About the Content It is widely accepted that stability analysis in a deterministic environment and convergence analysis in a stochastic environment constitute a basic grounding for analysis and design of adaptive control systems and so these form the core of the theoretical aspects of the book. Parametric adaptation algorithms (PAAs) which are present in all adaptive control techniques are considered in greater depth.

Our practical experience has shown that in the past the basic linear controller designs which make up the background for various adaptive control strategies have often not taken robustness issues into account. It is both possible and necessary to accommodate these issues by improving the robustness of the linear control designs prior to coupling them with one of the adaptation algorithms so the book covers this.
