# V. SWIMMING IN ARNOLD–BELTRAMI–CHILDRESS FLOW

To validate our RL approaches we use the Arnold–Beltrami–Childress (ABC) flow [30] in the chaotic regime, where trajectories diverge dramatically, largely in an exponential fashion. However, in this case, the assumptions of the BK model are not exactly satisfied and the equation (18) do not provide an exact match and can only serve as a rough approximation.

This flow is a three-dimensional incompressible velocity field which is an exact solution of Euler’s equation. Its representation in Cartesian coordinates, augmented with an weak additive noise is

$$v _ {\alpha , x} (\boldsymbol {s} _ {\alpha}) = A \sin (s _ {\alpha , z}) + C \cos (s _ {\alpha , y}) + \xi_ {\alpha , x},v _ {\alpha , y} (\pmb {s} _ {\alpha}) = B \sin (s _ {\alpha , x}) + A \cos (s _ {\alpha , z}) + \xi_ {\alpha , y},v _ {\alpha , z} (\pmb {s} _ {\alpha}) = C \sin (s _ {\alpha , y}) + B \cos (s _ {\alpha , x}) + \xi_ {\alpha , z},$$

with

$$\xi_ {\alpha , x} = \sqrt {\kappa} \frac {\mathrm{d} w _ {x}}{\mathrm{d} t}, \quad \xi_ {\alpha , y} = \sqrt {\kappa} \frac {\mathrm{d} w _ {y}}{\mathrm{d} t}, \quad \xi_ {\alpha , z} = \sqrt {\kappa} \frac {\mathrm{d} w _ {z}}{\mathrm{d} t},$$

where $\alpha = 1 , 2$ is the particle index (for the active particle and its passive counterpart, resepctively) and $A , B$ and C are three flow parameters and $w _ { x } , w _ { y } , w _ { z }$ are unit variance Wiener processes. With appropriate selection of flow parameters the flows are chaotic so that if a pair of passive particles are placed in the flow their separation grows exponentially with time in the $s \ll 2 \pi$ regime, as illustrated in Fig. (3). The small additive noise strength κ is introduced to provide a change for divergence even if the active particle’s and its target’s initial positions coincide.

Probability distribution of sampled finite time leading Laypunov exponent, $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t )$ ≈ log $( \mathbf { \bar { \mathbf { W } } } ^ { \top } ( t ; 0 ) \mathbf { \mathbf { \mathbf { W } } } ( t ; 0 ) ) / t$ , in the ABC flow for $A ~ = ~ 1 . , ~ B ~ = ~ 0 . 7 , ~ C ~ = ~ 0 . 4 3$ and evaluated at t equal to the duration of the episode is shown in Fig. (4). In this case relation between the D˜ parameter, measuring the eddy-diffusivity strength of the BK flow, and the average leading Lyapunov exponent is $\tilde { D } = 2 \bar { \lambda } _ { 1 } ( 1 + 2 / d )$ . This relation was subsequently utilized in Eq. (18).
