# 5.4 Validation of the Models Identified with Type I Methods

This section is concerned with the validation of models identified using identification methods based on the whitening of the prediction error. If the residual prediction error is a white noise sequence, in addition to obtaining unbiased parameter estimates, this also means that the identified model gives the best prediction for the plant output in the sense that it minimizes the variance of the prediction error. On the other hand, since the residual error is white and a white noise is not correlated with any other variable, then all the correlations between the input and the output of the plant are represented by the identified model and what remains unmodeled does not depend on the input.

The principle of the validation method is as follows:3

• If the plant + disturbance structure chosen is correct, i.e., representative of reality.   
• If an appropriate identification method for the structure chosen has been used.   
• If the degrees of the polynomials $A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) , B ( q ^ { - 1 } ) , C ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and the value of d (delay) have been correctly chosen (the plant model is in the model set).

Then the prediction error ε(t) asymptotically tends toward a white noise, which implies:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \mathbf {E} \{\varepsilon (t) \varepsilon (t - i) \} = 0; \quad i = 1, 2, 3, \dots ; - 1, - 2, - 3, \dots$$

The validation method implements this principle. It is made up of several steps:

1. Creation of an I/O file for the identified model (using the same input sequence as for the system).   
2. Creation of a prediction error file for the identified model (minimum 100 data).   
3. Whiteness (uncorrelatedness) test on the prediction errors sequence (also known as residual prediction errors).
