As indicated in Sect. 4.1, to avoid the bias error, it is necessary that:

$$E \left\{\phi (t) \varepsilon (t + 1) \right\} = 0 \quad \mathrm{for} \hat {\theta} = \theta$$

where $\phi ( t )$ is the observation error and $\varepsilon ( t + 1 )$ is the prediction (or adaptation) error. Therefore, the predictor structure, the observation vector and the adaptation error should be chosen accordingly. In fact the various algorithm will try to satisfy this condition by assuring asymptotically one of the two following criteria:

1. ε(t + 1) (or ν(t + 1) = adaptation error) is a white noise for ${ \hat { \theta } } = \theta$   
2. φ(t) and ε(t + 1) (or ν(t + 1)) are uncorrelated (or independent) for ${ \hat { \theta } } = \theta$

Therefore, the various recursive identification methods can be divided into two categories according to the principle used for obtaining unbiased estimated parameters:

(1) identification methods based on the whitening of the prediction error;   
(2) identification methods based on the decorrelation of the observation vector (φ) and the prediction error (ε).

Other classification of recursive identification methods are possible. One such classification is related to the structure of the predictor and of the observation vector and one can distinguish:

Equation Error Methods: which include recursive least squares and the different extensions. These methods are characterized by the fact that the measured output (and its delayed values) are used both in the predictor equation and in the observation vector (eventually filtered). Each method tends to obtain asymptotically a white prediction error (white noise) for a class of disturbance models by recursively modeling the disturbance.

Instrumental Variable Methods: Using these methods one tries to generate an observation vector which is not correlated with the prediction errors, by generating instrumental variables which are correlated with the noise free output of the system and uncorrelated with the noise.

Output Error Methods: These methods are characterized by the fact that the adjustable predictor uses the previous values of the predicted output instead of the previous measurements of the system output. Furthermore, in the observation vector the output measurements are replaced by the predicted outputs.
