# 3.3.2 Stability Approach for the Synthesis of PAA Using the Equivalent Feedback Representation

In Sect. 3.2, we derived parameter adaptation algorithms either by the minimization at each step of an error criterion (for a given structure of the adjustable predictor) or by transforming an off-line parameter estimation procedure in a recursive parameter estimation algorithm. This second approach gave us the structure of the adjustable predictor and of the PAA. To analyze the behavior of the algorithms for $t \to \infty$ , as well as the effect of various modifications (discussed in Sect. 3.2.3), a stability analysis has to be considered. This has been done for the particular case of a constant adaptation gain in Sect. 3.3.1.

In this section, we will take a different approach for obtaining parameter adaptation algorithms. We will first define the structure of the adjustable predictor and then we will synthesize a PAA such that the prediction (adaptation) error be globally asymptotically stable for any initial values of the parameter error and adaptation error, and for any finite values of the adaptation gain. The synthesis of an asymptotically stable PAA (in the sense of the adaptation error) will take advantage of the equivalent feedback structure (EFR), which can be associated with the PAA, and of the passivity concepts which are useful in this context.

As an example for illustrating this approach for the synthesis of PAA, we will discuss the synthesis of a so-called output error adaptive predictor (known also as parallel model reference adaptive system—Landau 1979).
