# 12.1 Introduction

As indicated in Chap. 1, indirect adaptive control is a very general approach to adaptive control since, in principle, one can combine any parameter estimation scheme with any control strategy. The adaptation of the controller parameters is carried out in two steps:

Step 1: On-line estimation of the plant model parameters.

Step 2: On-line computation of the controller parameters based on the estimated plant model.

The resulting control scheme should guarantee that the input and the output of the plant remain bounded and that some indices of performance are achieved asymptotically. This requires a deep analysis of the indirect adaptive control system which is nonlinear and time-varying.

Fortunately, good properties of the indirect adaptive control schemes will be guaranteed if, separately, the parameter estimation algorithm and the control strategy satisfy a number of properties (largely similar to those required for indirect adaptive prediction) which are summarized next:

1. The a posteriori adaptation error in the parameter estimation algorithm goes to zero asymptotically.   
2. The a priori adaptation error does not grow faster than the observation vector (containing the input and output of the plant).   
3. The estimated plant model parameters are bounded for all t.   
4. The variations of the estimated plant model parameters go to zero asymptotically.   
5. The design equation(s) provide(s) bounded controller parameters for bounded plant parameter estimates.   
6. The estimated plant model is admissible with respect to the design equation which means that assuming that it corresponds to the exact plant model, the resulting controller has bounded parameters, stabilizes the system and achieves the desired performances.

If these conditions are satisfied, it is then possible to show that the input and the output of the plant remain bounded and that some indices of performances are achieved asymptotically.
