For the case $C ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1$ , one has an autoregressive (AR) model and for the case $D ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1$ one has a moving average model (MA). However, v(t) may act in different part of the system. Equation (2.52) corresponds to the block diagram shown in Fig. 2.1a (known also as the equation error model). If in addition v(t) is modeled by (2.53) with $D ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1$ , one obtains the Autoregressive Moving Average with Exogenous Input (ARMAX) model (Fig. 2.1a):

$$y (t + 1) = - A ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) y (t) + q ^ {- d} B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) + C (q ^ {- 1}) e (t + 1) \tag {2.56}$$

or:

$$y (t) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} u (t) + \frac {C (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} e (t) \tag {2.57}$$

In general: $n _ { c } \leq n _ { A }$

Equation (2.57) gives an equivalent form for (2.56) which corresponds to the disturbance added to the output, but filtered by $1 / A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ . However, the disturbance may be represented as directly added to the output as shown in Fig. 2.1b.

$$y (t) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} u (t) + v (t) \tag {2.58}$$

This configuration is known as the output error model which can further be written as:

$$y (t + 1) = - A ^ {*} \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y (t) + q ^ {- d} B ^ {*} \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) + A \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) v (t) \tag {2.59}$$

A model of the form (2.53) can be associated to v(t) in (2.58) (this is the Box-Jenkins model). However, in many cases, one simply makes the hypothesis that {u(t)} and {v(t)} are independent without considering a special model for v(t) (except that it is assumed to be of finite power).

All these models allow a representation of the form:

$$y (t + 1) = \theta^ {T} \varphi (t) + w (t + 1) \tag {2.60}$$

where $w ( t + 1 )$ is different depending on the context, and θ and ϕ are given by (2.14) and (2.15), respectively.
