# 5.6.1 Uncorrelation Test

Let $\{ y ( t ) \}$ and $\{ \hat { y } ( t ) \}$ be the centered output sequences of the plant and of the identified model, respectively. Let $\{ \varepsilon ( t ) \}$ be the centered sequence of the residual output (prediction) errors (centered = measured values − mean values). One computes:

$$R (i) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon (t) \hat {y} (t - i); \quad i = 0, 1, 2, \dots , n _ {A}, \dots \tag {5.102}R N (i) = \frac {R (i)}{[ (\frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \hat {y} ^ {2} (t)) (\frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon^ {2} (t)) ] ^ {1 / 2}}i = 0, 1, 2, \dots , n _ {A}, \dots \tag {5.103}$$

which are estimations of the (normalized) cross-correlations (note that $R N ( 0 ) \neq 1 )$ , and $n _ { A }$ is the degree of polynomial $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ . If ε(t ) and $\hat { y } ( t - i ) , i \geq 1$ are perfectly uncorrelated (theoretical situation), then:

$$R N (i) = 0; \quad i = 1, 2, \dots , n _ {A}, \dots$$

In practice, this is never the case, either because the duration of the identification was not long enough to approach the asymptotic character, or because the identification of good simple models is desired [with few parameters, i.e., under estimation of the orders of $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( q ^ { - 1 } ) ]$ , which results in structural errors that are correlated with the input u(t).

The validation criterion for Type II identification methods based on an uncorrelation test will be defined similarly to that for Type I identification methods, which also use an uncorrelation test but on different sequences of variables (see Sect. 5.4). One therefore considers as a practical validation criterion in this case:

$$| R N (i) | \leq \frac {2 . 1 7}{\sqrt {N}}; \quad i \geq 1$$

where N is the number of samples. Table 5.2 can be used to find the numerical value of the validation criterion for various N and the level of signification of the test.

All the comments made in Sect. 5.4 about the signification of the values of the validation criterion apply also in this case. In particular, the basic practical numerical value for the validation criterion, which is:

$$| R N (i) | < 0. 1 5; \quad i \geq 1$$

is worth remembering. This test is also used when one would like to compare models identified with Type I method, with models identified with Type II method. In this case, only the set of estimated parameters of $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $\bar { B ( q ^ { - 1 } ) }$ are used on the output error predictor given in (5.101) and then the uncorrelation test is made.
