The confidence interval considered in (5.57) corresponds to a 3% level of significance of the hypothesis test for Gaussian distribution. If RN(i) obeys the Gaussian distribution $( o , 1 / { \sqrt { N } } )$ , there is only a probability of 1.5% that RN(i) is larger than $2 . 1 7 / \sqrt { N }$ , or that RN(i) is smaller than $- 2 . 1 7 / \sqrt { N }$ . Therefore, if a computed value RN(i) falls outside the range of the confidence interval, the hypothesis ε(t) and $\varepsilon ( t - i )$ are independent should be rejected, i.e., {ε(t)} is not a white noise sequence. Sharper confidence intervals can be defined. Table 5.2 gives the values of the validation criterion for various N and various levels of significance.

The following remarks are important:

• An acceptable identified model has in general:

$$| R N (i) | \leq \frac {1 . 8}{\sqrt {N}} \dots \frac {2 . 1 7}{\sqrt {N}}; \quad i \geq 1$$

• If several identified models have the same complexity (number of parameters), one chooses the model given by the methods that lead to the smallest |RN(i)|.

• A too good validation criterion indicates that model simplifications may be possible.

• To a certain extent, taking into account the relative weight of various non-Gaussian and modeling errors (which increases with the number of samples), the validation criterion may be slightly tightened for small N and slightly relaxed for large N . Therefore, for simplicity’s sake, one can consider as a basic practical numerical value for the validation criterion value:

$$| R N (i) | \leq 0. 1 5; \quad i \geq 1$$

Note also that a complete model validation implies, after the validation using the input/output sequence employed for identification, a validation using a plant input/output sequence other than the one used for identification.

There is another important point to consider. If the level of the residual prediction errors is very low compared to the output level (let us say more than 60 dB), the whiteness tests lose their signification. This is because, on one hand, the noise level is so low that the bias on the RLS for example is negligible, and on the other hand, because the residual noise to a large extent may not be Gaussian (for example, noise caused by the propagation of round-off errors). This situation may occur when identifying simulated I/O data generated without disturbances.
