# 13.4.4 Effects of Design Parameters

In this section, the effect of design parameters in the performance of adaptive control with switching is investigated via some simulations on the flexible transmission system (Karimi et al. 2001). The design parameters for adaptive control with switching are:

• number of fixed and adaptive models,   
• type of parameter adaptation algorithm for adaptive models,   
• forgetting factor in the monitoring signal,   
• minimum delay time between two switchings.

Selection of appropriate values for the design parameters depends upon some information about the plant, like:

• plant model in different operating points,   
• existence and type of the reference signal,   
• existence and type of the output disturbances,   
• variance of the output noise.

For the flexible transmission system, in order to simulate the above mentioned characteristics, thirteen discrete-time identified models of plant relating to different loadings are considered. Then we suppose that the plant is initially unloaded and the small disks are placed on the third pulley one by one until the system becomes fully loaded (with 12 disks). Next, the disks are taken off one by one and system again becomes unloaded. It is supposed that this load changing is repeated cyclically with period $T _ { c }$ and we refer to $f _ { c } = 1 / T _ { c }$ as the parameter changing rate.

The reference signal is either null or a filtered square wave signal (filtered by a reference model) with an amplitude of 1 and a period of 10 s. The output disturbance signal is also either null or a pulse train with an amplitude of 0.5 and a period of 20 s. A zero-mean normally distributed white noise is added to the plant output. The noise variance is varied in some simulations to study the noise effect.

The objective of the control system is to follow the reference input and to reject the output disturbances as fast as possible. Thus, in order to compare different design parameters a performance index is defined as follows:

$$J _ {c} = \left(\frac {1}{T _ {f}} \int_ {0} ^ {T _ {f}} \varepsilon_ {c} ^ {2} (t) d t\right) ^ {1 / 2} \tag {13.6}$$

where

$$\varepsilon_ {c} (t) = r (t) - y (t) \tag {13.7}$$

and $T _ { f }$ is the simulation time. The performance index is in fact the root-meansquare of the tracking error and, since all the controllers contain an integrator and disturbances are applied while $r ( t ) = 0$ , it represents the root-mean-square of the regulation error as well.
