# 11.1 Introduction

Direct adaptive control covers those schemes in which the parameters of the controller are directly updated from a signal error (adaptation error) reflecting the difference between attained and desired performance. Direct adaptive control schemes are generally obtained in two ways.

1. Define an equation for a signal error (adaptation error) which is a function of the difference between the tuned controller parameters and the current controller parameters. Use this adaptation error to generate a PAA for the controller parameters.   
2. Use an indirect adaptive control approach with an adaptive predictor of the plant output reparameterized in terms of the controller parameters and force the output of the adaptive predictor to follow exactly the desired trajectory.

The second approach allows the direct adaptation of the parameters of the controller without solving an intermediate “design equation”. As it will be shown the prediction error used in the PAA is in fact an image of the difference between the nominal and the attained performance because of closed-loop operation. Furthermore, the resulting schemes are governed by the same equations as those obtained by the first approach.

Although direct adaptive control is very appealing, it cannot be used for all types of plant model and control strategies. In fact, the situations where direct adaptive control can be used are limited. The typical use of this approach covers:

1. adaptive tracking and regulation with independent objectives (Sect. 11.2);   
2. adaptive tracking and regulation with weighted input (Sect. 11.3);   
3. adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation (Sect. 11.4).

As will be shown, the basic hypothesis on the plant model is that, for any possible values of the parameters either

• the finite zeros of the plant model are inside the unit circle (this hypothesis is used for schemes 1 and 3),

or

• there exists a linear combination of the denominator and numerator of the plant transfer function which is an asymptotically stable polynomial (this hypothesis is used by scheme 2).

For other direct adaptive control schemes dedicated to plant models with nonnecessarily stable zeros see M’Saad et al. (1985).
