# 4.1 Autonomous Aircraft Taxiing System

The goal of the Autonomous Aircraft Taxiing System (AATS) is to control an aircraft’s taxiing at a steady speed on a taxiway. The inputs to the system are the images obtained from a camera positioned on the right wing of the aircraft [17]. In this work, identically to the previous work [20], the goal is to verify that the aircraft does not violate the following safety properties:

• Property 1 (P1): The aircraft stays within the runway and will not leave it.   
• Property 2 (P2): The airplane will be directed toward the runway’s center.

The aircraft’s state is determined by its crosstrack position (p) and heading angle error (θ) with respect to the taxiway center line. These state variables change in accordance with non-linear continuous-time dynamics, driven by the control signal ϕ:

$$\dot {p} = v \sin \theta\dot {\theta} = \frac {v}{L} \tan \phi \tag {1}$$

where L is the distance (5m) between the front and back wheels, v is the taxi speed $( 5 m / s )$ , and ϕ is the steering angle control input. An image-based controller generates the control signal ϕ. A neural network predicts the state variables p and θ and a proportional control method produces the control signal ϕ by the following law:

$$\phi = - 0. 7 4 p - 0. 4 4 \theta \tag {2}$$

In previous work [20], the authors assumed a fixed frequency 1Hz controller. But in our work, we consider an infinite frequency. A cGAN is used to approximate the perception system, with the heading angle error (θ) and the aircraft’s crosstrack position (p) as inputs. To reflect fluctuations in the environment, two latent variables with a range of -0.8 to 0.8 are introduced. In the prior work, several simplifications were made to facilitate the verification of the surrogate system [20]. Initially, the input RGB images, with dimensions of 200 × 360, were reduced to 8 × 16 grayscale images, which can be seen in Figure 4. This reduction allowed the implementation of a smaller feed-forward neural network controller with ReLU activations. Initially, a deep convolutional GAN (DCGAN) was used to train the cGAN. However, it was later replaced by a more compact feed-forward neural network that simulates the image generation capabilities of the DCGAN. The integrated network that encompasses both the cGAN and the image-based controller consists of 7 feed-forward layers, all equipped with ReLU activations. Figure 1 shows AATS and its components.
