$$J (t) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {t} \left[ \prod_ {j = 1} ^ {t} \lambda_ {1} (j - i) \right] \mu (i - 1) \left[ y (i) - \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi (i - 1) \right] ^ {2} \tag {3.75}$$

with:

$$\mu (t) = \frac {1 + \lambda_ {2} (t) \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)}{1 + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)} \tag {3.76}$$

Using this technique, at each step there is a movement in the optimal direction of the RLS, but the gain is maintained approximately constant. The value of $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t )$ and $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ are determined from the equation:

$$\operatorname{tr} F (t + 1) = \frac {1}{\lambda_ {1} (t)} \operatorname{tr} \left[ F (t) - \frac {F (t) \phi (t) \phi^ {T} (t) F (t)}{\alpha (t) + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)} \right] \tag {3.77}$$

fixing the ratio $\alpha ( t ) = \lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) / \lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ ((3.77) is obtained from (3.66)).

This type of profile is suited to the model identification of systems with timevarying parameters and for adaptive control with non-vanishing adaptation.

A.5: Decreasing Gain + Constant Trace In this case, A1 is switched to A4 when:

$$\operatorname{tr} F (t) \leq n G; \quad G = 0. 0 1 \text { to } 4 \tag {3.78}$$

in which $G$ is chosen in advance. This profile is suited to the model identification of time-varying systems and for adaptive control in the absence of initial information on the parameters.

A.6: Variable Forgetting Factor + Constant Trace In this case A3 is switched to A4 when:

$$\operatorname{tr} F (t) \leq n G \tag {3.79}$$

The use is the same as for A5.

A.7: Constant Gain (Gradient Algorithm) In this case:

$$\lambda_ {1} (t) = \lambda_ {1} = 1; \quad \lambda_ {2} (t) = \lambda_ {2} = 0 \tag {3.80}$$

and thus from (3.66), one obtains:

$$F (t + 1) = F (t) = F (0) \tag {3.81}$$

The improved gradient adaptation algorithm given by (3.24) or (3.29) is then obtained.

This algorithm can be used for the identification and adaptive control of stationary or time-varying systems with few parameters (≤3) and in the presence of a reduced noise level. This type of adaptation gain results in performances that are inferior to those provided by the A1, A2, A3, and A4 profiles, but it is simpler to implement.

Choice of the Initial Gain F (0) The initial gain F (0) is usually chosen as a diagonal matrix of the form given by (3.55) and, respectively, (3.74).
