Filtering of input-output data results naturally if we consider the problem of plant model identification in closed loop using open-loop identification algorithms (see Chap. 9). Filtering of input-output data also represents a solution for enhancing an input-output spectrum in the “positive real” region of the transfer functions which occurs in convergence conditions of some algorithms (see Chaps. 3 and 4). When we would like to estimate a model characterizing the low frequency behavior of a plant, we have to filter the high-frequency content of input-output, in order to reduce the effect of the unmodeled dynamics.

• PAA with dead zone

In a number of applications, it is difficult to assume a stochastic or a deterministic model for the disturbance, but a hard bound for the level of the disturbance can be defined. In such situations, trying to make the (a posteriori) adaptation error smaller than the bound of the disturbance is irrelevant. Therefore, a dead zone is introduced on the adaptation error such that the PAA stops when the adaptation error is smaller or equal to the upper magnitude of the disturbance.

• PAA with projection

In many applications, the possible domain of variation of the parameter vector θ (or of some of its components) is known (for example, the model is stable, or the sign of a component of θ is known). Similarly, in a number of parameter estimation schemes, θˆ or part of the components of θˆ, should be restricted to a stability domain. In such cases, the estimated parameters should be restricted to a given convex domain by projecting the estimates on the admissible domain.

• PAA without integrator effect
