In this work, we propose a sliding mode safety-critical controller to address both the stability and the safety of nonlinear uncertain systems. The block diagram of the proposed approach is shown in Fig. 1. From this figure, we can see that there exist two feedback loops. The inner one is a state feedback loop which is designed using conventional SMC techniques to achieve the system stability. Since the designed inner loop does not necessarily address the safety constraints, we refer to this control as “unsafe control” shown with $\mathbf { \delta } \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { s m c } } .$ The outer loop is designed to safe the system such that this loop is less invasive on the functionality of the inner loop. This “safeguarding control”, shown with $u _ { \mathrm { s } } ,$ is added to the unsafe control ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s m c } }$ to construct the final safety-critical control u. To find $\mathbf { \Delta } \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { s } } .$ , we first augment a new state variable to the system, and then, the dynamics of this state is specifically chosen to maintain the functionality of the unsafe control on the stabilization. By defining a CBF for the embedded system, we reach an inequality to determine the safeguarding control $\mathbf { \delta } \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { s } } .$ . As an important property of sliding mode techniques, the finite-time convergence of the proposed controller to the sliding manifold is proved. Different strategies are employed to achieve a less intrusive safeguarding control. The proposed sliding mode safety-critical controller is also equipped with some user-defined parameters to add degrees of freedom in managing the imposed safety constraints.

The primary outcomes of our study can be summarized in the following points:
