We now proceed with the argument in detail (we return to the more abstract perspective in Remark 2). Consider the set of positive semi-definite matrices with unit trace

$$\mathcal {C} = \{X: X \succeq 0, \operatorname{tr} X = 1 \} \tag {4}$$

and the function $f : { \mathcal { C } } \to { \mathcal { C } }$ given by

$$f (X) = \frac {A ^ {\mathsf {T}} X A + \alpha C ^ {\mathsf {T}} C}{\operatorname{tr} \left(A ^ {\mathsf {T}} X A + \alpha C ^ {\mathsf {T}} C\right)}, \tag {5}$$

where $\alpha > 0$ is a parameter. The set C for two by two matrices

$$
X = \left( \begin{array}{c c} x & y \\ y & z \end{array} \right) \tag {6}
$$

is illustrated in Figure 2. Since $f \left( \cdot \right)$ is continuous and C is compact and convex, Theorem 2 guarantees that for every $\alpha > 0 ,$ , there exists a positive semi-definite $X _ { \alpha }$ such that $X _ { \alpha } = f \left( X _ { \alpha } \right)$ . This gets us most of the way to finding a solution to Lyapunov equation. More specifically, denoting

$$\lambda_ {\alpha} = \operatorname{tr} \left(A ^ {\mathsf {T}} X _ {\alpha} A + \alpha C ^ {\mathsf {T}} C\right),$$

it then follows that

$$X _ {\alpha} = f \left(X _ {\alpha}\right) \implies \frac {\lambda_ {\alpha}}{\alpha} X _ {\alpha} = \left(A ^ {\mathsf {T}} \frac {1}{\alpha} X _ {\alpha} A + C ^ {\mathsf {T}} C\right).$$

Therefore, if we can show that for some $\alpha > 0 ,$ ,

1) $X _ { \alpha }$ is positive definite,   
2) $X _ { \alpha }$ is unique, and   
3) $\lambda _ { \alpha } = 1 ;$

we will have shown the required implication by setting $\begin{array} { r } { Q = \frac { 1 } { \alpha } X _ { \alpha } } \end{array}$ . We will now explain how to use (i) and (ii) to deduce that there exists an $\alpha > 0$ such that 1)–3) hold.

Remark 2. The argument we are about to present works almost without change in the more abstract setting hinted at in (3). To get a flavour of how this works, observe that the numerator of f (·) in (5) defines an affine function on the positive semi-definite cone. The effect of normalizing by the trace is then to project the output of this function, which will be a positive semi-definite matrix, onto a compact slice of the semi-definite cone (namely C). In fact, the remaining steps of our proof continue to hold in the more abstract setting, allowing for analogs of Lyapunov equations and Theorem 1 to be obtained for dynamical systems that evolve on other cones.

To give a concrete example of such a generalization, suppose that we have the discrete time dynamical system
