# E. System Stability

We have already shown that the proposed sliding mode safety critical controller reaches the sliding manifold in a finite-time by addressing the safety requirement $h ( { \pmb x } ) \geq 0$ As $\zeta = \phi ( \eta )$ asymptotically stabilizes (2), we can conclude that the origin of (1) is robustly asymptotically stable. These conclusions can be summarized in the following theorem.

Theorem 1: Consider the nonlinear system (1). Suppose all the assumptions stated to obtain ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s m c } } ( { \pmb x } )$ in (15) and ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s } } ( { \pmb x } , z )$ hold. Then, the safe set is forward invariant. Moreover, the origin of the closed-loop system is asymptotically stable if the safety requirement and the stability of the system under the unsafe control (15) are compatible.

Remark 3: In this paper, we assume that the considered safety requirement is compatible with the system stability. If this assumption is not satisfied, we have conflicts between the safe operation of the system and its stability. Drawing inspiration from QP-based methods and to prioritize the safety as the highest concern, we can intentionally scarify the system stability by setting ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s m c } }$ to zero until the system trajectory exits the risky set. If the system trajectory stays in $\mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { R } }$ or if the conflict remains unresolved, the sliding manifold should be redefined such that the sliding manifold avoids crossing the unsafe set.
