# “Integral + Proportional” Parameter Adaptation Algorithm

A first particularization of the above result is obtained for:

$$A = I; \quad B = F _ {I}; \quad C = I; \quad D = F _ {I} + F _ {P} \tag {3.202}$$

which corresponds to an associated transfer matrix:

$$H _ {P A A} (z ^ {- 1}) = \frac {1}{1 - z ^ {- 1}} F _ {I} + F _ {P}; \quad F _ {I} > 0; F _ {P} = \alpha F _ {i}; \alpha > - 0. 5 \tag {3.203}$$

where $F _ { I }$ is called the integral adaptation gain and $F _ { p }$ the proportional adaptation gain.

The algorithm is in general written under the equivalent form:

$$\hat {\theta} _ {I} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} _ {I} (t) + F _ {I} \phi (t) v (t + 1); \quad F _ {I} > 0 \tag {3.204}\hat {\theta} _ {P} (t + 1) = F _ {p} \phi (t) v (t + 1); \quad F _ {p} = \alpha F _ {I}; \alpha \geq - 0. 5 \tag {3.205}\hat {\theta} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} _ {I} (t + 1) + \hat {\theta} _ {P} (t + 1) \tag {3.206}$$

The adjustable predictor has the form:

$$\hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} _ {I} ^ {T} (t) \phi (t)y (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t + 1) \phi (t)$$

The associated passivity condition on the matrices $F _ { I }$ and $F _ { p }$ takes the form:

$$P - P = - Q \tag {3.207}I - F _ {I} P = S ^ {T} \tag {3.208}2 (F _ {I} + F _ {P}) - F _ {I} P F _ {I} = R \tag {3.209}$$

Taking ${ \cal P } = { \cal F } _ { I } ^ { - 1 }$ , which implies to take $F _ { I } > 0$ , the remaining condition is:

$$F _ {I} + 2 F _ {P} \geq 0 \tag {3.210}$$

which leads to the “surprising” condition:

$$F _ {P} \geq - 0. 5 F _ {I} \quad (\text { or } F _ {P} = \alpha F _ {I}; \quad \alpha \geq - 0. 5) \tag {3.211}$$

i.e., negative proportional adaptation gain can be used provided that the above condition is satisfied.

One can ask what is the influence of the proportional term upon the adaptation algorithm.

Proportional + Integral PAA with positive proportional gain leads to the improvement of the convergence of the adaptation error. However, high value of the proportional gain will slow down the convergence of the parameters.

Proportional + Integral PAA with small negative proportional adaptation gain improves in general the convergence of the parameters, but large negative values (below the limit) will slow down the convergence of the adaptation error.

These phenomena are illustrated in the following simulation example.

Simulation example Figure 3.10a illustrates the evolution of $\begin{array} { r } { J ( N ) = \sum _ { 0 } ^ { N } \nu ^ { 2 } ( t + 1 ) } \end{array}$ and Fig. 3.10b illustrates the evolution of the parametric distance defined as
