# 1.5 A Brief Historical Note

This note is not at all a comprehensive account of the evolution of the adaptive control field which is already fifty years old. Its objective is to point out some of the moments in the evolution of the field which we believe were important. In particular, the evolution of discrete-time adaptive control of SISO systems (which is the main subject of this book) will be emphasized (a number of basic references to continuous-time adaptive control are missed).

The formulation of adaptive control as a stochastic control problem (dual control) was given in Feldbaum (1965). However, independently more ad-hoc adaptive control approaches have been developed.

Direct adaptive control appeared first in relation to the use of a model reference adaptive system for aircraft control. See Whitaker et al. (1958). The indirect adaptive control was probably introduced by Kalman (1958) in connection with digital process control.

Earlier work in model reference adaptive systems has emphasized the importance of stability problems for these schemes. The first approach for synthesizing stable model reference adaptive systems using Lyapunov functions was proposed in Butchart and Shakcloth (1966) and further generalized in Parks (1966). The importance of positive realness of some transfer functions for the stability of MRAS was pointed out for the first time in Parks (1966). The fact that model reference adaptive systems can be represented as an equivalent feedback system with a linear time invariant feedforward block and a nonlinear time-varying feedback block was pointed out in Landau (1969a, 1969b) where an input-output approach based on hyperstability (passivity) concepts was proposed for the design. For detailed results along this line of research see Landau (1974, 1979). While initially direct adaptive control schemes have only been considered in continuous time, synthesis of discretetime direct adaptive schemes and applications appeared in the seventies. See Landau (1971, 1973), Bethoux and Courtiol (1973), Ionescu and Monopoli (1977). For an account of these earlier developments see Landau (1979).
