Another verification method for closed-loop properties can reason over infinite execution by constructing a discrete abstraction of the system behavior. Discrete abstractions allow reasoning over infinite-time closed-loop executions. These methods may split the state space into a finite number of cells. Transitions between cells are defined using time-bounded reachability. However, these methods also run into scalability issues. Image-based controllers, for example, are high dimensional, adding further complexity to the verification problem. An additional challenge is mathematically formulating the set of possible images the system may encounter. The most recent approach [20] circumvents this issue by using a conditional generative adversarial network (cGAN) as a surrogate model for the real-world perception system. However, there are some important system characteristics that were not considered. In their work, the control frequency runs at 1Hz. Using this approach, as the control frequency is increased, counter-intuitively, the area in the state space that is verified as safe is reduced [8]. The source of this is the abstraction error, which accumulates at every step in the analysis. Another approach that verifies safety properties of the closed-loop behaviour for image-based controllers showed some interesting qualities of different frequency controllers. Notably, their results show that higher frequency controllers have smaller areas of guaranteed safety. In control theory, a higher frequency is usually associated with better control performance. This directly competes with verification: a lower frequency controller can be verified over more area of the state space. This motivates this work, which studies how to verify closed-loop behaviour with infinite frequency, the most accurate possible model. In this paper, we use the term infinite frequency and continuously actuated interchangeably.
