# Determination of the $( n _ { A } ) _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\left( n _ { B } \right)$ )max

The aim is to obtain the simplest possible identified model that verifies the validation criteria. This is linked on the one hand to the complexity of the controller (which will depend on $n _ { A }$ and $n _ { B } )$ but equally to the robustness of the identified model with respect to the operating conditions.

A first approach to estimate the values of $( n _ { A } ) _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $( n _ { B } ) _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ is to use the RLS and to study the evolution of the variance of the residual prediction errors, i.e., the evolution of:

$$R (0) = E \{\varepsilon^ {2} (t) \} = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon (t) ^ {2}$$

as a function of the value of $n _ { A } + n _ { B }$ . A typical curve is given in Fig. 5.6.

In theory, if the example considered is simulated and noise-free, the curve should present a neat elbow followed by a horizontal segment, which indicates that the increase in parameter number does not improve the performance. In practice, this elbow is not neat because measurement noise is present.

The practical test used for determining $n _ { A } + n _ { B }$ is the following: consider first $n _ { A } , n _ { B }$ and the corresponding variance of the residual errors $R ( 0 )$ . Consider now $n _ { A } ^ { \prime } = n _ { A } + 1$ , $n _ { B }$ and the corresponding variance of the residual errors $R ^ { \prime } ( 0 )$ . If:

$$R ^ {\prime} (0) \geq 0. 8 R (0)$$

it is unwise to increase the degree of $n _ { A }$ (same test with $n _ { B } ^ { \prime } = n _ { B } + 1 )$ . With the choice that results for $n _ { A }$ and $n _ { B }$ , the model identified by the RLS does not necessarily verify the validation criterion. Therefore, while keeping the values of $n _ { A }$ and $n _ { B }$ , other structures and methods must be tried out in order to obtain a valid model. If after all the methods have been tried, none is able to give a model that satisfies the validation criterion, then $n _ { A }$ and $n _ { B }$ must be increased.

For a more detailed discussion of various procedures for the estimation of $\left( n _ { A } \right)$ max and $\left( n _ { B } \right)$ max see Söderström and Stoica (1989).
