# Remarks

1. In general, the eigenvalues of the matrix L(t) for given $\hat { R } ( t , q ^ { - 1 } ) , \hat { S } ( t , q ^ { - 1 } )$ , $\hat { A } ( \bar { t } , q ^ { - 1 } ) , \hat { B } ( t , q ^ { - 1 } )$ are the solution of:

$$\lambda^ {n _ {A} + n _ {B} + d - 1} [ \hat {A} (\lambda^ {- 1}) \hat {S} (\lambda^ {- 1}) + \lambda^ {- d} \hat {B} (\lambda^ {- 1}) \hat {R} (\lambda^ {- 1}) ] = 0$$

This equation is used for computing the eigenvalues of $L ( t )$ when $\hat { R } ( t , q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $\hat { S } ( t , q ^ { - 1 } )$ are not obtained as solutions of an equation of the type (12.24). Such a situation occurs in the case of adaptive generalized predictive control or adaptive linear quadratic control where $\hat { R ( t , q ^ { - 1 } ) }$ ) and $\hat { \boldsymbol S } ( t , \dot { \boldsymbol q } ^ { - 1 } )$ result as solutions of a quadratic criterion minimization.

2. An interesting interpretation of (12.38) is obtained by rewriting it as:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \hat {y} (t) \\ y (t - 1) \\ \vdots \\ y (t - n _ {A} + 1) \\ u (t) \\ u (t - 1) \\ \vdots \\ u (t - n _ {B} + 1) \end{array} \right] = L (t) \left[ \begin{array}{c} y (t - 1) \\ y (t - 2) \\ \vdots \\ y (t - n _ {A}) \\ u (t - 1) \\ u (t - 2) \\ \vdots \\ u (t - n _ {B}) \end{array} \right] + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ \bar {y} ^ {*} (t) \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{array} \right]
$$

which is the closed-loop equation of the output of the predictor. It corresponds to a pole placement control of a perfectly known time-varying system (the adjustable predictor) (see also Fig. 1.13, Sect. 1.3).

Returning now to (12.39), one sees that it corresponds to a time-varying system with a driving signal. Roughly speaking, in order that φ(t) be bounded, the system should be asymptotically stable in the absence of the external excitation z and the external excitation either should be bounded, or should not grow faster than $\phi ( t )$ . While these properties of $z ( t )$ can be easily checked, the difficult part is that even if the eigenvalues of $L ( t )$ are inside the unit circle at each time t , this does not necessarily guarantee the stability of the system.

Let us look now to the performance indices characterizing the adaptive pole placement. To do so, let us first observe that the plant output can be written:

$$y (t + 1) = \hat {y} (t + 1) + \varepsilon (t + 1)$$

which leads to (see (12.32)):

$$\hat {A} (t) y (t) = q ^ {- d} \hat {B} (t) u (t) + \varepsilon (t) \tag {12.40}$$

where:3
