Input Error Methods: Using these methods, one identifies the inverse of the model. The adjustable predictor is in series with the plant and the output of the adjustable predictor is compared with a delayed input (Landau 1979).

Another possible classification is the way in which the algorithms are derived starting from appropriate off-line identification methods (Ljung and Söderström 1983). One can distinguish:

Recursive Prediction Error Methods (RPEM): Off-line identification procedures which minimize a criterion in terms of the prediction error (for a given disturbance) are transformed into recursive algorithms by sequential minimization of the criterion. The adjustable predictor takes the form of a predictor allowing to whiten asymptotically the prediction error. The observation vector multiplied by the prediction error is an estimate of the gradient of the criterion to be minimized. These algorithms involve on-line filtering of data through time-varying filters depending on the estimated parameters.

Pseudo-Linear Regressions (PLR): Include all the algorithms which uses as observation vector, the regressor vector used in the adjustable predictor. Most of them can be viewed as an approximation of the recursive prediction error methods (since they use the same type of predictor) or as a generalization of the recursive least squares in the sense that the observation vector depends itself on the previous values of the estimated parameters (which is not the case in RLS).

Instrumental Variables (RIV): See above.

However, independently of how these algorithms are derived, a stability analysis in deterministic environment and convergence analysis in stochastic environment is necessary.

One of the drawbacks of RPEM and RIV is that neither global stability nor global convergence can be insured and they require an initialization using other identification methods.

Derivation of pseudo-linear regression algorithms featuring global asymptotic stability property can be easily done using the method of equivalent feedback representation by (1) first writing the desired structure of the adjustable predictor (2) deriving an equation of the a posteriori prediction (adaptation) error of the form given in Theorem 3.2 and then using the corresponding PAA.
