Probably, the most difficult problem (at least theoretically) is to guarantee that any estimated model is admissible with respect to the control design strategy. For every control strategy, even if the estimated plant parameters are bounded at each time t , the current estimated model may not be admissible in the sense that there is no solution for the controller. For example, if pole placement is used as the control strategy, an estimated model at time t, which features a pole-zero cancellation, will not allow to compute the controller. Similarly, using a LQ control, if the estimated model at time t is not stabilizable the control cannot be computed. Furthermore, getting close to non-admissibility situations will lead to numerical problems resulting in very large and undesirable control actions. The consequence of this fact is twofold:

1. One has to be aware of the admissibility conditions and take appropriate ad hoc action in practice, in order to deal with the singularities which may occur during adaptation.   
2. One can make a theoretical analysis and develop modifications of the parameter estimates (or of the algorithms) in order to avoid the singularities corresponding to the non-admissibility of an estimated plant model.

As indicated earlier (Property 6), to remove the singularities one has to assume that the unknown plant model is admissible with respect to the control strategy.

While the various modifications of the estimated parameters or of the algorithms resulting from a theoretical analysis are in general complex to implement, they have the merit of showing that there are solutions that avoid the non-admissibility of the estimated model and give hints for simple ad hoc modifications to be implemented.

The analysis of the indirect adaptive control schemes is carried out in two steps:

1. One assumes that the estimated models are always in the admissibility set.   
2. One modifies the parameter estimation algorithm in order to satisfy the admissibility condition.
