# 1.3.5 Iterative Identification in Closed Loop and Controller Redesign

In indirect adaptive control, the parameters of the controller are generally updated at each sampling instant based on the current estimates of the plant model parameters.

However, nothing forbids us to update the estimates of the plant model parameters at each sampling instant, and to update the controller parameters only every N sampling instants. Arguments for choosing this procedure are related to:

• the possibility of getting better parameter estimates for control design;   
• the eventual reinitialization of the plant parameters estimation algorithm after each controller updating;   
• the possibility of using a more sophisticated control design procedure (in particular robust control design) requiring a large amount of computation.

If the plant to be controlled has constant parameters over a large time horizon, one can consider a large horizon N for plant parameters estimation, followed by the redesign of the controller based on the results of the identification in closed loop. Of course, this procedure can be repeated. The important feature of this approach is that identification in closed loop is done in the presence of a linear fixed controller (which is not the case in indirect adaptive control where plant parameter estimates and controller parameters are updated at each sampling instant).

This approach to indirect adaptive control is called iterative identification in closed loop and controller redesign. See Gevers (1993), Bitmead (1993), Van den Hof and Schrama (1995).

This technique can be used for:

• retuning and redesign of an existing controller without opening the loop;   
• retuning of a controller from time to time in order to take into account possible change in the model parameters.

It has been noticed in practice that this technique often allows to improve the performances of a controller designed on the basis of a model identified in open loop. See Bitmead (1993), Van den Hof and Schrama (1995), Langer and Landau (1996) and Chap. 9.
