# 8.1 The Robustness Problem

One of the basic questions in control design is how to account for the discrepancies between the model of the plant used for design and the true model. A number of factors may be responsible for modeling errors. A generic term for this modeling error is model uncertainty which can itself be represented mathematically in different ways. Two major classes of uncertainty are: structured uncertainty (more commonly termed parametric uncertainty) and unstructured uncertainty (usually specified in the frequency domain). The use of an unstructured uncertainty description was one of the starting points for the impressive development of robust control design in the 1980s (Zames 1981).

Robust control design is one way of dealing with uncertainty upon the parameters of the plant model in order to guarantee the stability of the closed-loop system and a certain level of performance for a given domain of parameter variations. However, for large variations of the plant model characteristics it may become difficult to assure a satisfactory level of performance and even to guarantee stability. On the other hand, adaptive control is an appropriate solution for dealing with parametric uncertainties.

In the past, the development of adaptation mechanisms has been emphasized in the field of adaptive control without taking into account the high sensitivity of some basic underlying linear control design with respect to plant model uncertainties. This may cause serious problems in practice. Therefore, the robustness of the basic linear design is an important issue in adaptive control.

An adaptive control system responds directly to structured parametric uncertainty by the adjustment of model parameters. Therefore, the unstructured modeling errors should be considered by the linear control law associated with the adaptive scheme. Since the unstructured modeling errors are in general large at high frequencies, the underlying linear controller should be designed such that good robustness is assured with respect to additive unstructured uncertainties located in the high-frequency region.
