# 1.4.1 Open-Loop Adaptive Control of Deposited Zinc in Hot-Dip Galvanizing

Hot-dip galvanizing is an important technology for producing galvanized steel strips. However, the demand, particularly from automotive manufacturers, became much sharper in terms of the coating uniformity required, both for use in exposed skin panels and for better weldability. Furthermore, the price of zinc rose drastically since the eighties and a tight control of the deposited zinc was viewed as a means of reducing the zinc consumption (whilst still guaranteeing the minimum zinc deposit). Open-loop adaptive control is one of the key elements in the Sollac hot-dip galvanizing line at Florange, France (Fenot et al. 1993).

The objective of the galvanizing line is to obtain galvanized steel with formability, surface quality and weldability equivalent to uncoated cold rolled steel. The variety of products is very large in terms of deposited zinc thickness and steel strip thickness. The deposited zinc may vary between 50 to 350 $\mathrm { g } / \mathrm { m } ^ { 2 }$ (each side) and the strip speed may vary from 30 to 180 m/mn.

The most important part of the process is the hot-dip galvanizing. The principle of the hot-dip galvanizing is illustrated in Fig. 1.17. Preheated steel strip is passed through a bath of liquid zinc and then rises vertically out of the bath through the stripping “air knives” which remove the excess zinc. The remaining zinc on the strip surface solidifies before it reaches the rollers, which guide the finished product. The measurement of the deposited zinc can be made only on the cooled finished strip and this introduces a very large and time-varying pure time delay. The effect of air knives depends on the air pressure, the distance between the air knives and the strip, and the speed of the strip. Nonlinear static models have been developed for computing the appropriate pressure, distance and speed for a given value of the desired deposited zinc.
