# 7.9 Concluding Remarks

This chapter has covered a number of digital control strategies which are currently used in practice either with constant controller parameters computed on the basis of identified models or as the underlying control algorithm for adaptive control. Some of their basic features are summarized next:

1. All the resulting controllers belong to the class of controllers with two-degree of freedom which handle both tracking and regulation specification. They have a tri-branched structure and the basic equation is:

$$S (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) + R (q ^ {- 1}) y (t) = T (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1)$$

where $u ( t )$ is the control input, $y ( t )$ is the measured plant output, $y ^ { * } ( t + d + 1 )$ is the desired tracking trajectory and R, S, T are polynomials in $q ^ { - 1 }$ .

2. The complexity of the controller depends primarily upon the complexity of the plant model and is independent of the type of control strategy used.

3. The design of the controller involves two stages:

(i) Computation of the polynomials $S ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $R ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ in order to match the desired regulation performances.   
(ii) Computation of the polynomials $T ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ in order to approach (or to match) the desired tracking performances.

4. Among the digital control strategies presented, one can distinguish:

• one step ahead predictive control;   
• long range predictive control.

In one step ahead predictive control, the objective can be expressed in terms of the predicted output at $t + d + 1$ . In long range predictive control, the control objective is expressed in terms of future values of the input and the output over a certain horizon.

5. Control strategies for deterministic environments and stochastic environments are similar. The only difference comes from the choice of some of the closedloop poles (the predictor or observer poles). In the deterministic case, these poles are chosen by the designer. In the stochastic case, their values are determined by the disturbance model. Therefore:

• every deterministic control design is optimal in a stochastic sense for a specific disturbance, model;   
• every stochastic control design lead to the assignment of some of the closedloop poles at values defined by the disturbance model.
