It is this expression which we will use as a baseline for the ABC flow in Section VI, after estimating respective value of D˜ in Section V, hence providing physics-based guidance to the critic block of the method, as shown in Fig. 1.

Some remarks are in order. First, notice that in the infinite horizon, $T \to \infty ,$ and then no discount, $\nu  \infty ,$ limits the surviving, B, part of the final expression in Eq. (18), is fully consistent with yet not optimized over ϕ part of the steady expression in Eq. (16). Second, note that even though we emphasize in Eq. (18) the dependence of A and B only on $t ,$ the formula actually provides explicit dependence on all other parameters of the BK flow and of the optimization formulation. Third, the expression in $\operatorname { E q } .$ . (18) for $V _ { \phi }$ applies only to cases where the statistics of separation stabilize over time, requiring that $2 \phi > \tilde { D }$ . Moreover, we expect a critical slowdown effect – when approaching the boundary, i.e., $\phi = \tilde { D } / 2 + \varepsilon$ and $\varepsilon  0$ , the time required to establish the steady distribution of the separation diverges.

This means that, given practical limitations on collecting statistics, Eq. (18) does not apply in the regime of small positive ε, potentially leading to statistics of the separation which does not stabilize at $T \to \infty$ . In this case we choose to be conservative and work with ϕ which are larger than $\tilde { D } / 2$ with a reserve.
