# 7.3.1 Regulation

The closed-loop behavior is defined by:

• the desired closed-loop poles;

• the choice of the fixed parts $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$

The desired closed-loop poles are chosen under the form:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) = P _ {D} (q ^ {- 1}) P _ {F} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.18}$$

where $P _ { D } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ defines the dominant poles and $P _ { F } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ defines the auxiliary poles. Often $P _ { D } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ is chosen as a second order polynomial resulting from the discretization of a continuous-time second-order with a given natural frequency $\omega _ { 0 }$ and damping factor $\zeta$ (or a cascade of second order systems). The role of $P _ { F } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ is on the one hand to introduce a filtering effect at certain frequencies and on the other hand to improve the robustness of the controller (as it will be discussed in Chap. 8).

$H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are primarily chosen in relation with the desired nominal performances. $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ should incorporate the internal model of the disturbance to be rejected (for example $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 - q ^ { - 1 }$ , in order to have an integrator which will assure zero steady state error for a step disturbance). $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ will incorporate either the model of the disturbance which we would like not to be affected by the controller or a filter for reducing the actuator stress in a certain frequency range (by reducing the gain of the controller). As it will be shown in Chap. 8, robustness issues will lead also to the introduction of $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ . Note that the introduction of $H _ { R }$ and $H _ { S }$ can be interpreted as the internal model associated with a deterministic disturbance given by the model

$$H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) v (t) = H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) \delta (t)$$

where $\delta ( t )$ is the Dirac impulse. Therefore the controller polynomials $S ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $R ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are given by:

$$S (q ^ {- 1}) = S ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.19}R (q ^ {- 1}) = R ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.20}$$

where $S ^ { \prime }$ and $R ^ { \prime }$ are solutions of:

$$
\begin{array}{l} A (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) S ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) + q ^ {- d - 1} B ^ {\star} (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) R ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1}) \\ = P _ {D} (q ^ {- 1}) P _ {F} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {7.21} \\ \end{array}
$$

Defining

$$n _ {A} = \deg A; \quad n _ {B} = \deg Bn _ {H S} = \deg H _ {S}; \quad n _ {H R} = \deg H _ {R}$$

One has the following result:
