where $H ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ is a vector transfer function. One observes that $w ( t + 1 )$ depends upon the input-output signals via $\phi ( t )$ and $\phi ( t - 1 )$ ). In general, one can consider that in the presence of unmodeled dynamics the plant output is given by (10.90) with:

$$
\begin{array}{l} w (t + 1) = H _ {u} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) + H _ {y} (q ^ {- 1}) y (t) = H ^ {T} (q ^ {- 1}) \phi (t) \\ = q ^ {- 1} H ^ {T} (q ^ {- 1}) \phi (t + 1) \tag {10.92} \\ \end{array}
$$

where:

$$H ^ {T} (q ^ {- 1}) = [ H _ {u} (q ^ {- 1}), H _ {y} (q ^ {- 1}) ] \tag {10.93}$$

Using a transfer operator form for the reduced order model, $W _ { a } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = H _ { u } / A$ corresponds to “additive” type uncertainty and $W _ { r } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = H _ { y } / A$ corresponds to “feedback” type uncertainty on the output as shown in Fig. 10.4 (for more details see Chap. 8).

Similar results are obtained for the various representations of the unmodeled dynamics considered in Chap. 8 (called “uncertainty” in robust control literature and “parasitics” in the adaptive control literature).

Most of the parameter estimation algorithms in the presence of unmodeled dynamics will guarantee that the prediction error will be bounded by $\| \phi ( t ) \|$ (multiplied by a constant) which means that it will be of the same order of magnitude as the unmodeled response. However, the parameter estimates can become unbounded if $\phi ( t )$ grows unbounded (see the discussion in Sect. 10.3). The consequence is that it will not be possible to guarantee the stability of the adaptive control scheme using a lower order estimated plant model. Therefore, one should first build a parameter estimator such that the “equivalent” disturbance caused by the unmodeled dynamics remains bounded, even if φ(t) tends to become unbounded, and then, use one of the techniques discussed in Sect. 10.4 or 10.5 to assure that the parameter estimates will remain bounded.

In order to obtain a parameter estimator which will have a bounded adaptation error in the presence of unmodeled dynamics, one will use normalization of the input-output data. The normalization of input-output data is obtained by dividing the data by a quantity m(t). The normalized variables are:

$$\bar {y} (t + 1) = \frac {y (t + 1)}{m (t)}; \quad \bar {u} (t) = \frac {u (t)}{m (t)}; \quad \bar {\phi} (t) = \frac {\phi (t)}{m (t)} \tag {10.94}$$

The corresponding normalized output equation will take the form:

$$\bar {y} (t + 1) = \theta^ {T} \bar {\phi} (t) + \bar {w} (t + 1) \tag {10.95}$$
