$$f (\hat {\theta}) = \mathbf {E} \{\phi (t, \hat {\theta}), \nu (t + 1, \hat {\theta}) \} \tag {4.38}$$

The correspondence between the discrete-time t and the continuous-time τ is given by:

$$\tau = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {t - 1} \frac {1}{i} \tag {4.39}$$

Equation (4.35) can be interpreted as a discretized version of (4.36) with a decreasing sampling time (as $t \to \infty$ , the approximation will be more precise). Equation (4.36) is an average type equation since the right hand side corresponds to the averaging of the product of stationary processes $\phi ( t , { \hat { \theta } } ) \nu ( t + 1 , { \hat { \theta } } )$ evaluated for a value $\bar { \theta }$ of the estimated parameters.

Since (4.35) which describes the behavior of the parameter adaptation algorithm of (4.30) for large t is related to the ODE of (4.36), it is natural to expect that the asymptotic behavior of (4.36) (i.e. equilibrium points and stability) will give information upon the asymptotic behavior of the parameter adaptation algorithm in the stochastic environment. These connections have been examined in detail in Ljung (1977a), Ljung and Söderström (1983) and will be summarized next. The first assumptions which one should made, in order to use this analogy, is the existence of the stationary processes $\phi ( t , { \hat { \theta } } )$ and $\nu ( t + 1 , { \hat { \theta } } )$ for any possible value ${ \hat { \theta } } ( t )$ . This means that the possible trajectories of the algorithm of (4.30) should lie infinitely often in a domain in the parameter space for which these stationary processes exist. In more concrete terms, this signifies that the system generating $\phi ( t )$ and $\nu ( t + 1 )$ are stable for any possible value ${ \hat { \theta } } ( t )$ generated by (4.30). Once this assumption is satisfied, the ODE of (4.36) can be used for the analysis of the asymptotic behavior of the adaptation algorithm of (4.30). The following correspondences between (4.30) and (4.36) have been established:

1. The equilibrium points of (4.36) correspond to the only possible convergence points of the algorithm of (4.30).   
2. The global (or local) asymptotic stability of an equilibrium point $\theta ^ { * }$ of (4.36) corresponds to the global (local) convergence w.p.1 (with probability 1) of the algorithm of (4.30) toward $\theta ^ { * }$ .
