# III. PROPOSED SLIDING MODE SAFETY-CRITICAL CONTROL

In this section, we will modify the conventional SMC method to specifically address the control problem described in Section II-C. Consider the nonlinear system (1) with the safe set (13). Let us first ignore the safety requirement and design a sliding mode controller based on the method presented in Section II-B. In the rest of the paper, this unsafe control law is shown with ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s m c } } ( { \pmb x } ) = [ u _ { \mathrm { s m c } } ^ { 1 } ( { \pmb x } ) , \dots , u _ { \mathrm { s m c } } ^ { p } ( { \pmb x } ) ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ . Thus, according to (5) and (11), we define

$$\boldsymbol {u} _ {\mathrm{smc}} = \boldsymbol {E} ^ {- 1} \left(- \hat {\boldsymbol {G}} ^ {- 1} \left(\boldsymbol {f} _ {b} - \frac {\partial \phi}{\partial \eta} \boldsymbol {f} _ {a}\right) - \beta \operatorname{sign} (\boldsymbol {s})\right) \tag {15}$$

where s $\mathbf i \mathbf g \mathbf n ( s ) = [ \mathrm { s i g n } ( s _ { 1 } ) , \dots , \mathrm { s i g n } ( s _ { p } ) ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ . Having designed ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s m c } } ( { \pmb x } )$ , in the rest of this section, we propose a method to address the safety of the system. As shown in Fig. 1, our approach works by adding a correction term $u _ { \mathrm { s } }$ to the unsafe control law (15) to guarantee the system safety. Thus, the proposed safety-critical controller consists of two feedback loops. The first one, designed using the control law (15), is not necessarily safe. The second loop, called the safeguarding loop, is used to ensure the system’s safety. In our proposed method, by augmenting a new state variable $z ( t ) : [ 0 , \infty ) $ R with specific dynamics to the system dynamics, the safeguarding control law ${ \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s } } ( { \pmb x } , z )$ is designed to achieve the safety requirement and maintain the system stability. If $\mathcal { R } _ { \mathrm { A } } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ shows the region of attraction of the origin for the system (1) under the unsafe control (15), we assume that $\mathcal { C } \subseteq \mathcal { R } _ { \mathrm { A } }$ .
