It can be shown that under the above assumptions all closed-loop signals and states are bounded if the injected system is stable. The injected system is a dynamical system which has $\varepsilon _ { \sigma }$ as input and $u _ { \sigma }$ (or u) and $y _ { \sigma }$ as outputs. Figure 13.3 is the same as Fig. 13.1 but is drawn differently such that the injected system appears as a separate block from the rest of the system. The supervisor and the switch are replaced by index $\sigma$ in the output of multi-estimator and multi-controller. It can be observed that if the injected system is stable, the input of the plant u and $y _ { \sigma }$ are bounded for a bounded $\varepsilon _ { \sigma }$ . It is clear that boundedness of $y _ { \sigma }$ implies the boundedness of y. So the input and output of the plant are bounded and all internal states of the plant are also bounded if the plant is detectable.

If the switching stops after a finite time, the injected system becomes an LTI system and is naturally stable (each controller stabilizes the corresponding model in the multi-estimator block). However, in presence of noise and unmodeled dynamics, the switching may not stop and the injected system becomes a switching system with arbitrary switching among stable systems. This type of switching systems are not necessarily stable and their stability has been analyzed in the literature (see Liberzon 2003). In the next subsection some recent results on the stability of such systems are given.
