Taking $Q ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) / H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ the resulting controller will contain $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and they can be interpreted as the internal model of the disturbance which has to be incorporated into the controller in order to obtain offset free performance on $e _ { y } ( t )$ for disturbances of the form:

$$H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) v (t) = H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) \delta (t) \tag {7.196}$$

where $\delta ( t )$ is the Dirac impulse. Using the quantities $e _ { u } ( t )$ and $e _ { y } ( t )$ , the control scheme will take the same form as the one shown in Fig. 7.7 for pole placement.

Remember that in the pole placement the objective is to compute $R ^ { \prime } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $S ^ { \prime } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ such that $P ( q ^ { - 1 } ) e _ { y } ( t ) = P ( q ^ { - 1 } ) e _ { u } ( t ) = 0$ , while in the generalized predictive control approach, the final objective will be to find $R ^ { \prime }$ and $S ^ { \prime }$ which minimize criterion (7.193) for given $\lambda , \dot { h _ { p } } , h _ { i } , h _ { c } , Q ( q ^ { - 1 } ) . ^ { 2 }$ The major interest of this formulation (M’Saad et al. 1986; Irving et al. 1986) is that tracking behavior is independent of the resulting closed-loop poles (as in the poles placement when $T ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = \beta P ( q ^ { - 1 } ) )$ . This scheme is known as partial state reference model (PSMR) generalized predictive control.

We will focus next on the minimization of the criterion (7.193). Similar methodology is used for the minimization of (7.182) or (7.185) and this is left as exercises. To carry the minimization of (7.193), we will need to express the predictions of $e _ { y } ( t + j )$ as a function of $e _ { u } ( t + j )$ ) and therefore we need a relationship between these two quantities. We will assume that no disturbance affects the plant for $j > t$ (the case in which v is a stochastic disturbance will be discussed later on).

Operating (7.191) by $A Q$ and taking in account (7.181) for $v = 0$ , one finds:

$$
\begin{array}{l} A Q e _ {y} (t + d + 1) = B ^ {*} Q [ u (t) - \beta A y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) ] \\ = B ^ {*} \bar {e} _ {u} (t) \tag {7.197} \\ \end{array}
$$

where:

$$\bar {e} _ {u} (t) = Q e _ {u} (t) \tag {7.198}$$

A more convenient form is obtained by taking into account the structure of $Q$ given in (7.280) which leads to:

$$A H _ {S} e _ {y} (t + d + 1) = B ^ {*} H _ {R} \bar {e} _ {u} (t) \tag {7.199}$$

Denoting:

$$\bar {A} = A H _ {S}; \quad \bar {B} ^ {*} = B ^ {*} H _ {R} \tag {7.200}$$

Equation (7.199) takes the form:

$$\bar {A} e _ {y} (t + d + 1) = \bar {B} ^ {*} \bar {e} _ {u} (t) \tag {7.201}$$
