# 8.7 Other Design Methods

If the final objective is to design a robust controller (without parameter adaptation), other methods can also be considered.

A first approach consists in using $H _ { \infty }$ optimization (Doyle et al. 1992; Green and Limebeer 1995) in order to find a controller such that:

$$\| W S \| _ {\infty} < 1 \tag {8.71}$$

where S is a sensitivity function and W is the size of the type of uncertainty related to the sensitivity function under consideration.

The definition of the upper templates for the various sensitivity functions are also related to this problem since if $W ^ { - 1 }$ defines the template, the requirement that the sensitivity function be below the template, leads again to the verification of (8.71).

Nevertheless, in order to apply $H _ { \infty }$ optimization technique, the key problem to be solved first is how to define the appropriate frequency weighting function W in order to obtain the desired performances (placement of the dominant poles and shaping of the sensitivity function).

From the (8.71) one can see that W can be interpreted as the inverse of the desired sensitivity function. Therefore, a method for defining the “desired sensitivity function” has been developed which is then used in an $H _ { \infty }$ optimization in order to obtain the desired controller (Landau and Karimi 1996).

A different approach for the design of a robust controller is based on a convex parameterization of the controller and use of convex optimization procedure (Langer and Landau 1999). This method presents a number of advantages in terms of performance specifications and gives excellent results.

For a comparison of various approaches for the design of a robust controller for a flexible transmission see Landau et al. (1995a, 1995b), Langer and Landau (1999), Kwakernaak (1995).
