The form of (2.13) will be used in order to estimate the parameters of a system model from input-output data. Consider (2.10). Passing the quantities in the left and in the right through a filter 1A(q−1) one gets: $\frac { 1 } { A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) }$

$$y (t) = G \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) \tag {2.16}$$

where:

$$G (q ^ {- 1}) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} \tag {2.17}$$

is termed the transfer operator.

Computing the z-transform of (2.1), one gets the pulse transfer function characterizing the input-output model of (2.1):2

$$G (z ^ {- 1}) = \frac {z ^ {- d} B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} \tag {2.18}$$

Observe that the transfer function of the input-output model of (2.1) can be formally obtained from the transfer operator by replacing the time operator q by the complex variable z. However, one should be careful since the domain of these variables is different. Nevertheless in the linear case with constant parameters one can use either one and their appropriate signification will result from the context.

Note also that the transfer operator $G ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ can be defined even if the parameters of the model (2.1) are time varying, while the concept of pulse transfer function does simply not exist in this case.

While in most of the developments throughout the book we will not need to associate a state-space form to the input-output model of (2.1), this indeed clarifies a number of properties of these models, in particular the definition of the “order” of the system.

Theorem 2.1 The order r of the system model (2.1), is the dimension of the minimal state space representation associated to the input-output model (2.1) and in the case of irreducible transfer function it is equal to:

$$r = \max (n _ {A}, n _ {B} + d) \tag {2.19}$$

which corresponds also to the number of the poles of the irreducible transfer function of the system.

The order of the system is immediately obtained by expressing the transfer operator (2.17) or the transfer function (2.18) in the forward operator $q$ and respectively the complex variable z. The passage from $G ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ to $G ( z )$ is obtained multiplying by $z ^ { r }$ :

$$G (z) = \frac {\bar {B} (z)}{\bar {A} (z)} = \frac {z ^ {r - d} B (z ^ {- 1})}{z ^ {r} A (z ^ {- 1})} \tag {2.20}$$

Example

$$G (z ^ {- 1}) = \frac {z ^ {- 3} (b _ {1} z ^ {- 1} + b _ {2} z ^ {- 2})}{1 + a _ {1} z ^ {- 1}} \quad \Longrightarrow \quad r = \max (1, 5) = 5G (z) = \frac {b _ {1} z + b _ {2}}{z ^ {5} + a _ {1} z ^ {4}}$$
