(1) An upper bound for the orders of the polynomials A, B, C is known.   
(2) The integer time delay d is known.   
(3) For all possible values of the plant model parameters, $B ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ has its zeros inside the unit circle.   
(4) The sign of b1 is known.   
(5) The estimated controllers parameters belong infinitely often to the domain for which the closed-loop system is asymptotically stable.

One has:

$$
\left.\begin{array}{l}\operatorname{Prob} \left\{\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} [ y (t + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + 1) ] = e (t + 1) \right\} = 1; d = 0\\\operatorname{Prob} \left\{\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} [ y (t + d + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) ] = E e (t + d + 1) \right\} = 1\\\deg E = d\end{array}\right\} \tag {11.137}
$$

if there is sup $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t ) \leq \lambda _ { 2 } < 2$ such that:

$$H ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) = \frac {1}{C (z ^ {- 1})} - \frac {\lambda_ {2}}{2} \tag {11.138}$$

is strictly positive real.

Assumptions 1, 2, 3 are just assuring that a minimum variance control can be computed. Assumption 4 is necessary in order to use a mechanism for avoiding eventual division by zero during adaptation transient (see (11.98)). Assumption 5 is the typical limitation of the averaging method.

The result of Theorem 11.3 indicates that when $C ( q ^ { - 1 } ) \neq 1$ , the adaptive control may not converge towards a value assuring asymptotic optimality of the controller if $\frac { \mathrm { ~ i ~ } } { C ( z ^ { - 1 } ) } - \frac { \lambda _ { 2 } } { 2 }$ is not strictly positive real. Such an example of non convergence can be found in Ljung (1977b). One way to remove this restriction is by over parameterization (Shah and Franklin 1982) but it has the disadvantage of augmenting the number of parameters to be adapted. If one has some a priori knowledge of the domain of variation of $C ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ one can use a filtered observation vector (similar to the method described in the deterministic case—Sect. 11.2) in order to relax the positive real condition (11.138).
