# B. Batchelor Flow under Proportional Control

Consider an active particle moving towards its passive counterpart governed by a linear-feedback and timeindependent force. This controlled motion can be expressed as

$$\boldsymbol {a} \rightarrow \phi \boldsymbol {s}.$$

Here, $\phi$ is a constant (time-independent) parameter. $\mathrm { A s } -$ suming that $\phi$ is sufficiently large, we focus our analysis on the steady state of the probability distribution function representing distance between the two particles. We discuss this scenario under two contexts: first in the general Batchelor case and then in the special short-time correlated case of the BK model.

In the general Batchelor case solution of Eq. (7) for $\mathbf { } s ( t )$ observed at the time t conditioned to $s ( 0 ) = s _ { 0 }$ becomes

$$\boldsymbol {s} (t) = e ^ {- \phi t} \boldsymbol {W} (t) \left(\boldsymbol {s} _ {0} + \int_ {0} ^ {t} \mathrm{d} t ^ {\prime} e ^ {\phi t ^ {\prime}} \boldsymbol {W} ^ {- 1} (t ^ {\prime}) \boldsymbol {\xi} (t ^ {\prime})\right), \tag {11}$$

where the time-ordered exponential, $W ( t )$ , satisfies Eq. (8). We will study the large time statistics of $s ( t ) =$ $| s ( t ) |$ , where the initial separation is forgotten, and thus the first term within the brackets on the right hand side of Eq. (11) can be dropped. Moreover, one can see, following the logic of [24] (see also references therein), that in the long-time regime, where the inter-particle separation, s(t) is significantly larger than the so-called diffusive scale, $s _ { d } \doteq \sqrt { \kappa / | \lambda _ { 1 } | }$ and $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) \doteq \operatorname* { m a x } _ { i } ( \lambda _ { i } \vert i = 1 , \cdot \cdot \cdot , d )$ is the largest (finite-time) Lyapunov exponent of the Batchelor flow, the fluctuations of $\mathbf { } s ( t )$ are mainly due to the Lyapunov exponents, distributed according to Eq. (9). In other words, in this asymptotic we can approximate the inter-particle distance by

$$s (t) \approx \exp \left[ (\lambda_ {1} (t; 0) - \phi) t \right] s _ {d}. \tag {12}$$

Substituting $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t ; 0 )$ , expressed via $s ( t )$ according to Eq. (12), into Eq. (10), and expanding $S _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ in the Taylor Series around $\bar { \lambda } _ { 1 }$ , we arrive at the following asymptotic expression for statistics of $s ( t ) = | s ( t )$ |:
