# Adaptive Control

Algorithms, Analysis and Applications

Second Edition

Prof. Ioan Doré Landau

Département d’Automatique

GIPSA-LAB (CNRS/INPG/UJF)

PO Box 46

38402 St. Martin d’Heres

France

ioan-dore.landau@gipsa-lab.grenoble-inp.fr

Prof. Rogelio Lozano

UMR-CNRS 6599

Centre de Recherche de Royalieu

Heuristique et Diagnostic des Systèmes

Complexes

Université de Technologie de Compiègne

PO Box 20529

60205 Compiègne

France

Rogelio.Lozano@hds.utc.fr

Prof. Mohammed M’Saad

Centre de Recherche (ENSICAEN)

Laboratoire GREYC

École Nationale Supérieure d’Ingénieurs de Caen

Campus Côte de Nacre

bd. Maréchal Juin 6

14032 Caen Cedex

France

msaad@greyc.ensicaen.fr

Prof. Alireza Karimi

Laboratoire d’Automatique

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne

1015 Laussanne

Switzerland

alireza.karimi@epfl.ch

ISSN 0178-5354

ISBN 978-0-85729-663-4

e-ISBN 978-0-85729-664-1

DOI 10.1007/978-0-85729-664-1

Springer London Dordrecht Heidelberg New York

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data

A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library

Library of Congress Control Number: 2011930651

© Springer-Verlag London Limited 2011

Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, this publication may only be reproduced, stored or transmitted, in any form or by any means, with the prior permission in writing of the publishers, or in the case of reprographic reproduction in accordance with the terms of licenses issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside those terms should be sent to the publishers.

The use of registered names, trademarks, etc., in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.

The publisher makes no representation, express or implied, with regard to the accuracy of the information contained in this book and cannot accept any legal responsibility or liability for any errors or omissions that may be made.

Cover design: VTeX UAB, Lithuania

Printed on acid-free paper

Springer is part of Springer Science+Business Media (www.springer.com)

To Lina, Leticia, Salima, Noushin

Vlad, Jessica, Rogelio, Azadeh and Omid

Ce qui est simple est toujours faux

Ce qui ne l’est pas est inutilisable

Paul Valéry

Mauvaises Pensées
