# 2.1 Applying the Brouwer fixed-point theorem

Our basic approach will be to view the Lyapunov equation as a fixed-point equation. This will allow us to use the Brouwer fixed-point theorem to deduce existence of solutions of the required form. To the uninitiated, the version of the Brouwer fixed-point theorem that we will require reads as follows.

Theorem 2 (The Brouwer fixed-point theorem). Let C be a compact convex set. $I f f : { \mathcal { C } } \to { \mathcal { C } }$ is a continuous function, then there exists a point $x \in { \mathcal { C } }$ such that $f \left( x \right) = x$ .

The Brouwer fixed-point theorem is famous both for its widespread use in many diverse areas of mathematics, as well as its many proofs. A surprising but very accessible proof comes from a combinatorial argument about coloring the vertices of triangles known as Sperner’s lemma [2], though equally surprising perhaps is that it is equivalent to the determinacy theorem for the game of Hex [3]! Its history is also rather convoluted, with roughly equivalent statements appearing in earlier works from Poincar´e, Hadamard, and Bohl, as well as it becoming the subject of an intense feud between Cinquini and Scorza-Dragoni in the Italian mathematics community in the 1940s [4].

We will make use of the Brouwer fixed-point theorem in a similar fashion to it’s use in proofs of the Perron-Frobenius theorem [5]. I remember being quite struck by this line of reasoning when I first encountered it while browsing Pablo Parrilo’s thesis [6] (and procrastinating from writing my own), and I hope you will derive similar enjoyment if you haven’t seen the argument before. Roughly speaking, we will recast the Lyapunov equation as the solution to an equation of the form

$$x = \operatorname{proj} _ {\mathcal {C}} M x + c$$

where the right-hand side denotes the projection of the affine function $M x + c$ onto a suitably chosen compact convex set C. Under mild conditions (that are satisfied in our case),

$$\operatorname{proj} _ {\mathcal {C}} M x + c: \mathcal {C} \rightarrow \mathcal {C} \tag {3}$$

is continuous on ${ \mathcal { C } } ,$ meaning that the Brouwer fixed-point theorem ensures the existence of solutions of the Lyapunov equation. Using (i) and (ii) to take care of a few details to ensure things like uniqueness will then lead us to the conclusions of (iii).
