# 9.10 Problems

9.1 Develop an exact adaptation algorithm for the filtered closed-loop output error (F-CLOE) and provide the corresponding stability analysis in deterministic environment (Hint: use a similar approach as for the filtered output error method given in Sect. 5.5.3).

9.2 Show that in the case of an ARMAX type plant model, the optimal predictor for the closed loop takes the form (9.32) and the prediction error equation takes the form (9.36).

9.3 Along the lines for the derivation of the extended closed-loop output error algorithm (X-CLOE), develop an algorithm for the case of a noise model

$$v (t + 1) = \frac {C (q ^ {- 1})}{D (q ^ {- 1}) A (q ^ {- 1})} e (t + 1)$$

where e(t +1) is a white noise (for the result, see Table 9.1, the G-CLOE algorithm).

9.4 Work out the details of the stability analysis in deterministic environment and convergence analysis in stochastic environment for the algorithms given in Table 9.1.

9.5 From the basic equations (9.5) through (9.11), define a closed-loop input error as:

$$\varepsilon_ {C L U} (t + 1) = u (t + 1) - \hat {u} (t + 1)$$

Develop recursive algorithms for identification in closed loop using this type of error (closed-loop input error methods).

9.6 Give the details of the derivation of the expression for the asymptotic frequency distribution of the bias for filtered open-loop identification algorithms ((9.70) through (9.73)).

9.7 Give the details of the derivation of the expression for the asymptotic frequency distribution of the bias for the X-CLOE algorithm (9.79).

9.8 Consider a true plant model described by:

$$G (q ^ {- 1}) = \frac {(q ^ {- 1} + 0 . 5 q ^ {- 2})}{(1 - 1 . 5 q ^ {- 1} + 0 . 7 q ^ {- 2}) (1 - 0 . 5 q ^ {- 1})}$$

whose output is disturbed by noise in closed loop with an RS Controller

$$\frac {R \left(q ^ {- 1}\right)}{S \left(q ^ {- 1}\right)} = \frac {0 . 8 6 5 9 - 1 . 2 7 6 3 q ^ {- 1} + 0 . 5 2 0 4 q ^ {- 2}}{\left(1 - q ^ {- 1}\right) \left(1 + 0 . 3 7 1 7 q ^ {- 1}\right)}$$

Do identification in open loop and closed loop using a second order estimated model with: $d = 0 , n _ { B } = 2 , n _ { A } = 2$ . Use a PRBS as external excitation.

1. Compare the frequency characteristics of the true plant model and of the estimated model obtained by various closed-loop identification methods.

2. Represent on the same graphic the frequency characteristics of the filter weighting the excitation signal (according to the expression for the asymptotic frequency distribution of the bias) and the sensitivity function weighting the model error.
