# 7.7 Generalized Predictive Control

The control strategies presented in the previous sections belong to the class of “one step ahead” predictive control, in the sense that the control objective concerns only the outputs of the plant $d + 1$ steps ahead where d is the integer delay.

The generalized predictive control belongs to the class of long range predictive control in the sense that the control objective concerns the outputs and the inputs of the plant over a certain horizon in the future beyond $d + 1$ . These strategies are related to the minimization of a quadratic criterion involving future inputs and outputs in a receding horizon sense, i.e., one computes a sequence of control signals in the future, but only the first one is applied and the optimization procedure is restarted at the next step. Indeed the resulting control law is stationary and the controller takes the form of an RST digital controller. The generalized predictive control has been introduced by Clarke et al. (1987).

The generalized predictive control with an appropriate formulation of the quadratic criterion can be interpreted as generalization of the various “one step ahead” control strategies. Consider the plant model:

$$A (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1) = B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) + v (t + d + 1) \tag {7.181}$$

where $v ( t + 1 )$ is the disturbance which can be deterministic or stochastic (or both). We make similar hypotheses upon the plant model as for pole placement except hypothesis (H4) which is replaced by:

(H4) The eventual common factors of $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are inside the unit circle. Consider the quadratic criterion:

$$
\begin{array}{l} J (t, h _ {p}, h _ {c}, h _ {i}) = \mathbf {E} \left\{\sum_ {j = h _ {i}} ^ {h _ {p}} [ P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + j) - P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + j) ] ^ {2} \right. \\ \left. + \lambda \left[ Q \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u \left(t + j - h _ {i}\right) \right] ^ {2} \right\} \tag {7.182} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $h _ { i }$ is the initial horizon, $h _ { p }$ is the prediction horizon, $\lambda \geq 0$ and $P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $\boldsymbol { Q } ( \boldsymbol { q } ^ { - 1 } )$ are transfer operators.

The control objective is to minimize the criterion (7.182) in a receding horizon sense with respect to:

$$U ^ {T} (t + h _ {c} - 1) = [ u (t), u (t + 1), \dots , u (t + h _ {c} - 1) ] \tag {7.183}$$

subject to the constraints:

$$Q (q ^ {- 1}) u (t + i) = 0; \quad h _ {c} \leq i \leq h _ {p} - d - 1 \tag {7.184}$$
