# 5.2 Structure of Recursive Parameter Estimation Algorithms

All the recursive parameter estimation algorithms1 fit within the schematic diagram shown in Fig. 5.2.

They all use the same structure for the parameter adaptation algorithm (PAA) with the different choices for the adaptation gain and this PAA has been extensively discussed in Sect. 3.3. All the methods use a one step ahead adaptive predictor which, under specific requirements upon the input, allows to obtain correct parameter estimates (under specific noises conditions). In other words, adaptive prediction is an intrinsic aspect of parameter estimation.

One of the major issues in parameter estimation for identification, is that for practical reasons, the excitation signal must be of very low magnitude. This constraint comes mainly from the fact that one often identifies systems which are in normal operation and the allowed additional excitation is very low. The fact that we would like to identify linear models around an operating point of the system, is also a reason for using low-excitation signal for certain types of systems.

Since, on the one hand, the allowed excitation is low, and on the other hand, the output measurements are always disturbed by noise, it results that the acquired data will be characterized in general by a significant noise/signal ratio. Therefore, the effect of the noise upon the parameter estimation algorithms cannot be neglected. As indicated in Chap. 4, the major effect is the bias error introduced on the estimated parameters. Removing the bias for different types of stochastic disturbances was one of the major driving factors in developing recursive parameter estimation algorithms. In fact, there is not a unique algorithm which can be used with all the possible disturbance structures such the estimated parameters are always unbiased.

The various algorithms are distinguished from each other by the following:

• predictor structure;   
• nature of the components of the observation vector φ(t);   
• dimension of the adjustable parameter vector ${ \hat { \theta } } ( t )$ and of the observation vector $\phi ( t )$ ;   
• way in which the prediction errors and respectively the adaptation errors are generated.

The convergence properties in the presence of random disturbances, will depend upon the different choices indicated above.

Classification of the various algorithms can be done using different criteria.
