# 11.5.3 Direct Adaptive Control with Unmodeled Dynamics

Consider again the equation of the filtered predicted output given in (11.172). In this case, it will be assumed that the disturbance is defined by:

$$| w (t + 1) | \leq d _ {1} + d _ {2} \eta (t), \quad 0 < d _ {1}, d _ {2} < \infty \tag {11.195}\eta^ {2} (t) = \mu^ {2} \eta^ {2} (t - 1) + \| \phi_ {C} (t) \| ^ {2} \tag {11.196}$$

where $d _ { 1 }$ accounts for a bounded external disturbance and $d _ { 2 } \eta ( t )$ accounts for the equivalent representation of the effect of unmodeled dynamics. More details about the description of unmodeled dynamics can be found in Sect. 10.6 (the chosen representation for the unmodeled dynamics corresponds to Assumption B in Sect. 10.6). In this case, due to the effect of feedback the unmodeled dynamics in (11.172) are characterized by $H ^ { \prime T } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) \phi ( t )$ where $H ^ { \prime T } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = S ^ { \prime } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) H ^ { T } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and it is assumed that $H ^ { \prime T } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is analytic in $| z | < \mu < 1$ and $d _ { 2 } = \| H ^ { \prime } ( \mu ^ { - 1 } z ^ { - 1 } ) \| _ { \infty }$ .

It should be noted that even if the parameters of the reduced order plant model are perfectly known, there is no fixed linear controller that could stabilize the plant for all possible value of $d _ { 2 }$ (which corresponds to the μ-scaled infinity norm of a transfer function depending on the system parameters and design objectives). Nevertheless one can design a controller that stabilizes the plant provided that $d _ { 2 } \leq d _ { 2 } ^ { * }$ where $d _ { 2 } ^ { * }$ is a threshold that again depends on the system parameters.

The assumptions made upon the system are:

1. The delay d is known.

2. Upper bounds on the degrees of the polynomials A and $B ^ { * }$ are known.

3. For all possible values of the plant parameters, the polynomial $B ^ { * }$ has all its zeros inside the unit circle.

4. The sign of $b _ { 1 }$ is known.

5. The disturbances upper bounds $d _ { 1 }$ and $d _ { 2 }$ are known.

Define the normalized input-output variables as:

$$\bar {y} (t) = \frac {y (t + 1)}{m (t)}; \quad \bar {u} (t) = \frac {u (t)}{m (t)}; \quad \bar {\phi} _ {C} (t) = \frac {\phi_ {C} (t)}{m (t)} \tag {11.197}$$

where:

$$m ^ {2} (t) = \mu^ {2} m ^ {2} (t - 1) + \max (\| \phi_ {C} (t) \| ^ {2}, 1), \qquad m (0) = 1, \quad 0 < \mu < 1 \tag {11.198}$$

The normalized predicted plant output is given by:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) \bar {y} (t + 1) = \theta_ {C} \bar {\phi} _ {C} (t) + \bar {w} (t + 1) \tag {11.199}$$

where:
