and the effective control input will be computed as:

$$u (t) = \frac {1}{\hat {s} _ {0} (t)} [ P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) - \hat {S} ^ {*} (t, q ^ {- 1}) u (t - 1) - \hat {R} (t, q ^ {- 1}) y (t) ] \tag {11.10}$$

The choice made for the adaptation error (11.2) and the structure of the adjustable controller leads to the block diagram of the adaptive control system shown in Fig. 11.1a. Figure 11.1a allows a rapprochement with model reference adaptive control (MRAC) to be made, where the output of the reference model generates the quantity $P ( q ^ { - 1 } ) y ^ { \ast } ( t )$ which is compared to the filtered plant output $P ( q ^ { - 1 } ) y ( t )$ . Alternatively, one can consider (as shown in Fig. 11.1b) that the adaptation error is defined by the difference between the desired trajectory $y ^ { * } ( t )$ generated by the tracking reference model and the plant output y(t) filtered by $P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ . As explained in Landau and Lozano (1981), $P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ) can be interpreted as a “reference model” for regulation.

Since we have selected a candidate for the adaptation error and a structure for the adjustable controller, the next step will be to give an expression for $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + d + 1 )$ as a function of the controller parameters misalignment. This will allow one to see to what extent $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + d + 1 )$ can be considered as an adaptation error to be used in a PAA of the forms discussed in Chap. 3. We note first that for the case of known parameters where the controller parameters are computed by solving the polynomial equation (7.91), one has $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + d + 1 ) \equiv 0$ and using (7.111), one can conclude that the filtered predicted plant output is given by:

$$\theta_ {C} ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) = P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1) \tag {11.11}$$

since in the case of known parameters:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) = P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1); \quad \forall t > 0 \tag {11.12}$$

where:

$$\theta_ {C} ^ {T} = [ s _ {0}, \dots , s _ {n _ {S}}, r _ {0}, \dots , r _ {n _ {R}} ] \tag {11.13}$$

defines the parameter vector of the tuned controller (unknown). Subtracting (11.7) which contains the parameters of the adjustable controller from (11.11), one obtains:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1) - P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) \\ = [ \theta_ {C} - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) ] ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.14} \\ \end{array}
$$

which has the desired form (linear in the parameter error).

For the PAA synthesis, we will use Theorem 3.2.
