Once an identification procedure has been carried out using one or several algorithms, the question arises: what is the best model? The answer may be given by the comparative validation of the identified models in closed-loop operation. The best plant model will be the one which allows the best prediction of the closed-loop behavior. As will be shown, coherent statistical validation tests can be defined as in the case of identification in open loop and further enhanced by a direct comparison of the computed closed-loop poles and the achieved ones (which are obtained by identifying the closed-loop system). The validation aspects are discussed in Sect. 9.5.

A comparative evaluation of the various algorithms based on simulations and real-time time experiments is presented in Sect. 9.6.

It has been observed that identification in closed loop generally improves the results obtained in open-loop identification in terms of resulting control performance. The main reason for this is that in closed-loop operation the external excitation signal is filtered by the sensitivity function. In particular, if the external excitation is added to the output of the controller, it will be filtered by the output sensitivity function which will enhance the plant input signal in the frequency region where the output sensitivity function has its maximum. As a consequence, a more precise model will be obtained in the frequency regions which are critical for control design. For a detailed discussion and experimental results see Langer and Landau (1996), Landau and Karimi (2002).
