# 11.5.1 The Problem

In the previous sections, the design of the direct adaptive controllers has been discussed under the assumptions that (called also the ideal case):

• the integer delay d is known;   
• upper bounds on the degrees of the polynomials A and $B ^ { * }$ are known;   
• the sign of $b _ { 1 }$ is known.

When dealing with disturbances, it was assumed that they have a stochastic model of known structure (in particular an ARMAX model has been considered).

The fact that:

1. the true plant model order is assumed to be less or equal to the model order used for design (i.e., the plant model is in the model set),   
2. the unmeasurable disturbances have a clear (nice) stochastic model,

constitute two major drawbacks of the analysis discussed in the previous section from a practical point of view. Examples are available in the literature (Egardt 1979; Rohrs et al. 1981; Ioannou and Kokotovic 1983) showing that either particular form of unmodeled dynamics or special types of disturbances can cause instability of direct adaptive control schemes. For a detailed review see Ortega and Tang (1989). Therefore, it is extremely important from a practical point of view, to assess the robustness of direct adaptive controller in the presence of:

• unmodeled dynamics (the plant model is not in the model set);   
• bounded disturbances (without a specific stochastic model).

Two points of view can be considered:

1. analysis of the robustness of the “ideal case” designs,   
2. introduction of modifications in the parameter adaptation algorithms in order to improve the robustness of the “ideal case” designs (robust adaptation).
