# 5 Related Work

Verification of neural network control systems has been approached from several perspectives. One line of work combines neural network verification methods and reachability analysis. Many neural network verification methods and tools exist that use mixed integer linear programming (MILP) formulations [23,9,30] or satisfiability module theory (SMT) encodings [18,19,15]. Marabou [19] is a parallel verifier that utilizes abstract interpretation and SMT solving. Other tools like nnenum [5] and NNV [31] use set propagation and abstraction of reachable sets to achieve high verification performance. Bound Propagation-based algorithms [39,28,32,34] have also produced promising results.

Multiple methods exist for measuring the closed-loop performance of statebased neural network controllers [21,17,16,35]. One strategy uses reachability analysis techniques along with the output of neural network verification tools. For closed-loop verification of image-based neural network controller, previous work [20] used a generative model as a surrogate model to replace the realworld perception system. This reduces the closed-loop verification of image-based controllers to the verification of state-based controllers. Others [8] reduced overapproximation errors by composition and unrolling. In one of their case studies, they also showed that higher frequency controllers have smaller verifiable areas of the state space.

Another line of work incorporates safety properties into the controller itself. One strategy modifies the training process of neural network controllers [11,12] to include safety when learning the environment. Other works use safety shields if a controller’s action will cause the system to reach an unsafe state [2,36].
