If $Q ( 1 ) = 0$ the steady state gain remains unchanged for $T ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ with respect to tracking and regulation with independent objectives. However, we do not have more perfect tracking of the desired trajectory. In order to preserve the tracking performances independently of the value of λ, one should choose:

$$
\begin{array}{l} T (q ^ {- 1}) = \beta [ \lambda Q (q ^ {- 1}) A (q ^ {- 1}) + B ^ {\star} (q ^ {- 1}) P (q ^ {- 1}) ] \\ \beta = \frac {1}{B ^ {\star} (1)} \tag {7.148} \\ \end{array}
$$

The design is done in two steps:

1. One computes a RST controller using tracking and regulation with independent objective even if $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ has unstable zeros.   
2. One searches for a value $\lambda > 0$ such that $\lambda Q ( q ^ { - 1 } ) A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) + B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ) is asymptotically stable and that the input or its filtered value has a desired behavior.

Remark The input energy can be reduced also by changing the initial desired poles as well as by introducing filters in $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ in certain frequency ranges.

Example Consider the case: $d = 0 , B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = b _ { 1 } + b _ { 2 } q ^ { - 1 }$ with $\begin{array} { r } { | \frac { b _ { 2 } } { b _ { 1 } } | > 1 } \end{array}$ , i.e. $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ has an unstable zero. Then

$$S (q ^ {- 1}) = B ^ {\star} (q ^ {- 1}) = b _ {1} + b _ {2} q ^ {- 1}$$

Choosing

$$\lambda Q (q ^ {- 1}) = \lambda (1 - q ^ {- 1})$$

one obtains

$$S (q ^ {- 1}) + \lambda (1 - q ^ {- 1}) = (b _ {1} + \lambda) + (b _ {2} - \lambda) q ^ {- 1}$$

If we choose λ such that:

$$\left| \frac {b _ {2} - \lambda}{b _ {1} + \lambda} \right| < 1$$

the controller will be stable, and it remains to check the stability of the resulting closed-loop poles.

Regressor form The control law can be expressed as:

$$\theta_ {C} ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) = T (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {\star} (t + d + 1) - \lambda Q (q ^ {- 1}) u (t)$$

where $\theta _ { C }$ and $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ are given by (7.112) and (7.113).

Remark Weighting factors in the form of the ratio of two polynomials can also be considered.
