# 6.1 The Problem

In Chap. 5, we saw how adjustable one-step-ahead predictors are used for recursive plant model parameter estimation. In Chap. 2, j -steps-ahead (j > 1) predictors were discussed for the case of known plant parameters both in deterministic and stochastic case. These predictors are computed from the knowledge of the plant model parameters in the deterministic case and from the knowledge of the plant and disturbance models parameters in the stochastic case.

When the plant model parameters are unknown (as well as those of the disturbance model), the idea is that, based on the available data, one will adapt the parameters of an adjustable j -steps ahead predictor such that in the deterministic case the prediction error goes asymptotically to zero and in the stochastic case it converges asymptotically (in a stochastic sense) toward the linear optimal prediction error.

This chapter will discuss the design of adaptive j -steps ahead predictors both in the deterministic and stochastic environment. Two approaches can be considered for the adaptation of j -steps ahead predictors.

(1) Direct adaptive prediction.

In this case the parameters of the j -steps ahead adjustable predictor are directly adapted from the measurement of the prediction error.

(2) Indirect adaptive prediction.

One estimates recursively the unknown parameters of the plant model (and disturbance model) and, at each sampling time, one computes the parameters of the j -steps ahead predictor based on the current estimates of the plant parameters.

The advantage of the direct approach is that no additional calculations will be necessary. A disadvantage of this approach may occur for long-range prediction (for example for systems with large delay d) since the predictor will have more parameters to estimate than there are in the plant model $( n _ { a } + n _ { B } + j$ instead of $n _ { A } + n _ { B } )$ . This will increase the complexity of the PAA and may slow down the parameters convergence rate.

The indirect approach has the advantage of leading to the estimation of fewer parameters for the case of long range predictors and to offer the possibility of generating a family of predictors for various prediction horizons (as are required for example in generalized predictive control—see Chap. 7). The disadvantage is that it requires the solution of a polynomial equation at each sampling time. However, recursive procedures also exist for this purpose (see Sect. 7.7).
