# 5.8.2 Direct Order Estimation from Data

To introduce the problem of order estimation from data, we will start with an example: assume that the plant model can be described by:

$$y (t) = - a _ {1} y (t - 1) + b _ {1} u (t - 1) \tag {5.108}$$

and that the data are noise free. The order of this model is $n = n _ { A } = n _ { B } = 1$ . Question: Is any way to test from data if the order assumption is correct? To do so, construct the following matrix:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} y (t) & \vdots & y (t - 1) & u (t - 1) \\ y (t - 1) & \vdots & y (t - 2) & u (t - 2) \\ y (t - 2) & \vdots & y (t - 3) & u (t - 3) \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} Y (t) & \vdots & R (1) \end{array} \right] \tag {5.109}
$$

Clearly, if the order of the model given in (5.108) is correct, the vector $Y ( t )$ will be a linear combination of the columns of R(1) $( Y ( t ) = R ( 1 ) \theta$ with $\theta ^ { T } = [ - a _ { 1 } , b _ { 1 } ] )$ and the rank of the matrix will be 2 (instead of 3). If the plant model is of order 2 or higher, the matrix (5.109) will be full rank. Of course, this procedure can be extended for testing the order of a model by testing the rank of the matrix $[ Y ( t ) , R ( { \hat { n } } ) ]$ where:

$$R (\hat {n}) = [ Y (t - 1), U (t - 1), Y (t - 2), U (t - 2), \dots , Y (t - \hat {n}), U (t - \hat {n}) ] \tag {5.110}Y ^ {T} (t) = [ y (t), y (t - 1), \dots ] \tag {5.111}U ^ {T} (t) = [ u (t), u (t - 1), \dots ] \tag {5.112}$$

Unfortunately, as a consequence of the presence of noise, this procedure cannot directly be applied in practice.

A more practical approach results from the observation that the rank test problem can be approached by the searching of $\hat { \theta }$ which minimize the following criterion for an estimated value of the order $\hat { n }$

$$V _ {L S} (\hat {n}, N) = \min _ {\hat {\theta}} \frac {1}{N} \| Y (t) - R (\hat {n}) \hat {\theta} \| ^ {2} \tag {5.113}$$

where N is the number of data. But this criterion is nothing else than an equivalent formulation of the least squares (Söderström and Stoica 1989). If the conditions for unbiased estimation using least squares are fulfilled, (5.113) is an efficient way for assessing the order of the model since $V _ { L S } ( \hat { n } ) - V _ { L S } ( \hat { n } + 1 )  0$ when ${ \hat { n } } \geq n$

In the mean time, the objective of the identification is to estimate lower order models (parsimony principle) and therefore, it is reasonable to add in the criterion (5.113) a term which penalizes the complexity of the model. Therefore, the criterion for order estimation will take the form:
