# 5.10 Concluding Remarks

Basic elements for the identification of discrete-time models for dynamical systems using recursive parameter estimation algorithms have been laid down in this chapter. The following facts have to be emphasized:

1. System identification includes four basic steps:

• input/output data acquisition under an experimental protocol;   
• estimation or selection of the model complexity;   
• estimation of the model parameters;   
• validation of the identified model (structure of the model and values of parameters).

This procedure has to be repeated (with appropriate changes at each step) if the validation of the model fails.

2. Recursive or off-line parameter estimation algorithms can be used for identification of the plant model parameters.

3. Recursive parameter estimation algorithms offer a number of advantages with respect to off-line algorithms:

(a) estimation of the model parameters as the system evolves;   
(b) significant data compression of past data;   
(c) real-time identification capabilities.   
In addition, their performance makes them a competitive alternative to off-line parameter estimation algorithms.

4. The various recursive parameter estimation algorithms use the same structure for the PAA. They differ from each other in the following ways:

• structure of the adjustable predictor;   
• nature of the components of the observation vector;   
• way in which the adaptation error is generated.

5. The stochastic disturbances, which contaminate the measured output, may cause errors in the parameter estimates (bias). For a specific type of disturbances, appropriate recursive identification algorithms providing asymptotically unbiased estimates are available.
