Assume $h ( { \pmb x } )$ is of relative degree one with respect to (1). As $b ( { \pmb x } , z )$ depends on $\varrho _ { 2 }$ (see the definition of $\gamma _ { 2 }$ in (21)), we can conclude that if the estimation $\hat { G } ( \pmb { x } )$ is sufficiently accurate and $ { \mathbf { { a } } } (  { \mathbf { { x } } } , z ) \ \not = \ \mathbf { { 0 } }$ , then the inequality (22) has a solution. From $( 2 3 ) ‐ ( 2 5 )$ , we can conclude that by selecting large values for $c _ { z } , \ h _ { 3 }$ , and $z ( 0 ) , \ \mathbf { \boldsymbol { a } } ( \mathbf { \boldsymbol { x } } , z )$ can be approximated by $( \pi / 2 ) h _ { 2 } L _ { B \hat { G } E } h ( { \pmb x } )$ . Thus, ${ \mathrm { i f ~ } } r = 1$ , the condition $ { \mathbf { { a } } } (  { \mathbf { { x } } } , z )  { \mathbf { { \phi } } } \neq  { \mathbf { { 0 } } }$ can be met. Furthermore, $b ( \pmb { x } , z )$ is smaller since its first term is decreased. In addition, the second term of the right-hand of (25) can be reduced, which further helps us to make $c ( { \pmb x } , z )$ negative. However, it should be noted that the rate of convergence of the proposed safety-critical controller can be decrease for large values of $c _ { z }$ as stated in Subsection III-A. It should also note that selecting $z ( t _ { 0 } ) < 0$ can make it possible to reduce $b ( \pmb { x } , z )$ and $c ( { \pmb x } , z )$ due to the presence of the signum function in their first terms.

Assume $h ( { \pmb x } )$ is of relative degree two or more with respect to (1). If the sliding manifold does not cross the risky set, the proposed method can be still applied. In this situation, the second terms in the right-hand side of (23) and (24) are zero. As stated in Subsection III-C, it the set $\Omega , { \pmb u } _ { \mathrm { s } }$ is zero. Outside of this set, s is not zero, and consequently, a $\neq \mathbf { 0 } .$ . In this case, by selecting $z ( t _ { 0 } ) < 0 .$ we can conclude that $b ( \pmb { x } , z )$ is negative until z tends to zero. Consequently, the safeguarding control $\mathbf { \delta } \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { s } }$ exists even if $\varrho _ { 2 }$ is not small.
