# IV. STATE VALUE FUNCTION IN THE BATCHELO-KRAICHNAN FLOW

In this section, we use the BK theory to evaluate the state value function. Significance of this result is in its further utilization in the next section as an estimate for the physicist (replacing critic) bias in the PC RL algorithm.

Let’s consider the continuous time version of Eq. (4); the value function which we evaluate over a finite horizon from t to T , with the discount factor $\nu ,$ reads

$$
\begin{array}{l} V _ {\phi} (t, \boldsymbol {s} (t)) = (\beta + \phi^ {2}) \int_ {t} ^ {T} \mathrm{d} t ^ {\prime} e ^ {- \nu (t ^ {\prime} - t)} \left(e ^ {- 2 \phi (t ^ {\prime} - t)} \right. \\ \times \mathbb {E} \left[ \left\| \boldsymbol {W} (t ^ {\prime}; t) \boldsymbol {s} \right\| _ {2} ^ {2} \right] + \kappa \int_ {t} ^ {t ^ {\prime}} \mathrm{d} t ^ {\prime \prime} e ^ {- 2 \phi (t ^ {\prime} - t ^ {\prime \prime})} \\ \left. \times \mathbb {E} \left[ \operatorname{Tr} \left[ \boldsymbol {W} ^ {\top} (t ^ {\prime}; t ^ {\prime \prime})   \boldsymbol {W} (t ^ {\prime}; t ^ {\prime \prime}) \right] \right]\right), \tag {17} \\ \end{array}
$$

where W satisfies Eq. (8); the expectations are over the statistics of $\sigma _ { : }$ , which is not yet specified, and over the white-Gaussian thermal forces. Here, in Eq. (17), we evaluate the state value function conditioned to a value of the control coefficient $\phi$ fixed to a constant, and since $\phi$ is the only parameter in PC, we will label V with it.

In the case of the SK flow we observe that $\mathbb { E } \big [ W _ { k i } ( t ^ { \prime } ; t ) W _ { k j } ( t ^ { \prime } ; t ) \big ] = \delta _ { i j } \times \exp \big ( - ( t ^ { \prime } - t ) \tilde { D } \big )$ . This results in the following closed-form expression for Eq. (17)

$$
\begin{array}{l} V _ {\phi} (t, s (t)) = (\beta + \phi^ {2}) \int_ {t} ^ {T} \mathrm{d} t ^ {\prime} e ^ {- \nu (t ^ {\prime} - t)} \left(s ^ {2} e ^ {- (2 \phi - \tilde {D}) (t ^ {\prime} - t)} \right. \\ \left. + \kappa d \int_ {t} ^ {t ^ {\prime}} \mathrm{d} t ^ {\prime \prime} e ^ {- (2 \phi - \tilde {D}) \left(t ^ {\prime} - t ^ {\prime \prime}\right)}\right) =: B (t) s ^ {2} + C (t), \tag {18} \\ \end{array}
$$

with

$$B (t) = \frac {(\beta + \phi^ {2}) (1 - e ^ {- (T - t) (\nu + 2 \phi - \tilde {D})})}{\nu + 2 \phi - \tilde {D}},C (t) = \frac {d \kappa (\beta + \phi^ {2})}{\nu (2 \phi - \tilde {D})} \big (1 - e ^ {- \nu (T - t)} \big) - \frac {d \kappa}{(2 \phi - \tilde {D})} B (t).$$
