(b) Control command prediction by state values for the entire state space. Set of linear models are in red and blue data points are neural network predictions.   
Fig. 3: Abstraction region for one cell and fitted linear models on all cells.

Given the set of locally valid linear models, we use existing tools to perform reachability analysis with these models to obtain the reachable sets after a given time-step. We take advantage of the discrete state space abstraction to find the finite reachable cells. We define a cell abstraction graph ⟨C, E⟩ where C is the set of cells in the discrete state abstraction and the edges E are the state transitions between cells. This makes it possible to reason over infinite-time closed-loop executions.

Simulation alone, however, may be insufficient to ensure that simulation trajectories do not leave the abstraction region in the middle of a time-step. We address this issue by checking the containment of the intermediate reachable sets and check that they are inside the abstraction region. If the containment check fails, we continually increase the bloating factor and rerun the simulation with a new, larger local region until the containment check passes.

Our method is presented in Algorithm 1. We begin with iterating through each cell $c \in { \mathcal { C } }$ and compute the weight $A _ { m a t }$ and bias b of the the linear model for each cell denoted by Linearize (line 5). Linearize additonally returns an uncertainty U and abstraction region γ. We next compute the reachable cells after elapsing a time-step, shown with the operator Reach (line 6). The operator Reach returns the final reachable cells $C _ { f }$ and the intermediate reachable cells

Algorithm 1: Compute Abstract Transitions (CAT)   
1 Inputs: Network Controller $\mathcal{N}_{\mathcal{C}}$ , Cell Partition $\mathcal{C}$ , Bloating Factor $bf$ , Increasing Factor $inc$ ;

2 Outputs: Cell Abstraction Graph $\langle C, E \rangle$ ;

3 $E \leftarrow \emptyset$ ;

4 for $c$ in $\mathcal{C}$ do
