# Analysis

The fact that the PAA of (11.19), (11.20) and (11.22) assures that (11.18) holds, does not guarantee that the objective of the adaptive control scheme defined by (11.3) will be achieved (i.e., the a priori adaptation error should goes to zero) and that $\{ u ( t ) \}$ and $\{ y ( t ) \}$ will be bounded. This is related to the boundedness of $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ . Effectively from (11.22), one can see that $\varepsilon ( t + d + 1 )$ can go to zero without $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + d + 1 )$ going to zero if $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ becomes unbounded. Since $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ contains the input and the output of the plant, it is necessary to show that the PAA achieves the objective of (11.3) while assuring that $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ remains bounded for all t.

An important preliminary remark is that the plant model (11.1) is a difference equation with constant coefficients and therefore $y ( t + 1 )$ cannot become unbounded for finite t if $u ( t )$ is bounded. Therefore if $u ( t )$ is bounded, $y ( t )$ and respectively $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ can become unbounded only asymptotically.

Bearing in mind the form of (11.10), it is also clear that in order to avoid $u ( t )$ becoming unbounded the adjustable parameters must be bounded and $\hat { s } _ { 0 } ( t ) =$ $\hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t ) \neq 0$ for all t . This will assure $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ can become eventually unbounded only asymptotically.

In order to assure that $\hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t ) \neq 0$ for any t , knowing that $b _ { 1 }$ cannot be zero and its sign is assumed to be known, one fixes a minimum value $| \hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t ) | \geq \delta > 0$ . If $| \hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t ) | < \delta$ for some t , one either simply uses the value δ (with the appropriate sign), or one takes advantage of the weighting sequences $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) , \lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ and recomputes $\hat { \theta } _ { C } ( t )$ for different values of $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t - d - 1 ) , \lambda _ { 2 } ( t - d - 1 )$ (for example: $\lambda _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } = \lambda _ { 1 } + \varDelta \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } ^ { \prime } = \lambda _ { 2 } + \varDelta \lambda _ { 2 } )$ such that $| \hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t ) | > \delta$ .

After these preliminary considerations, the next step is to show that (11.3) is true and $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ is bounded. Two approaches are possible:

1. Use a “bounded growth” lemma which will allow to straightforwardly conclude.   
2. Derive a dynamic equation for $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ and use it for boundedness analysis (Landau and Lozano 1981).

We will use the first approach by outlining the “bounded growth” lemma (Goodwin and Sin 1984).
