The indirect adaptive control approach was significantly developed starting with Åström and Wittenmark (1973) where the term “self-tuning” was coined. The resulting scheme corresponded to an adaptive version of the minimum variance discretetime control. A further development appeared in Clarke and Gawthrop (1975). In fact, the self-tuning minimum variance controller and its extensions are a direct adaptive control scheme since one estimates directly the parameters of the controller. It took a number of years to understand that discrete-time model reference adaptive control systems and stochastic self-tuning regulators based on minimization of the error variance belong to the same family. See Egardt (1979), Landau (1982a).

Tsypkin (1971) also made a very important contribution to the development and analysis of discrete-time parameter adaptation algorithms.

Despite the continuous research efforts, it was only at the end of the 1970’s that full proofs for the stability of discrete-time model reference adaptive control and stochastic self-tuning controllers (under some ideal conditions) became available.

See Goodwin et al. (1980b, 1980a) (for continuous-time adaptive control see Morse 1980; Narendra et al. 1980).

The progress of the adaptive control theory on the one hand and the availability of microcomputers on the other hand led to a series of successful applications of direct adaptive controllers (either deterministic or stochastic) in the late 1970’s and early 1980’s. However, despite a number of remarkable successes in the same period a number of simple counter-examples have since shown the limitation of these approaches.
