where $\varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 )$ is given by (11.177). This is a slight modification of the algorithm considered in Sect. 10.4. Note also that for $\varDelta = 0$ it is exactly the one used in the ideal case (Sect. 11.2). The basic property of this algorithm which will be used for the analysis of the scheme is that:

$$[ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) - w (t + 1) ] f [ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) ] \geq f ^ {2} [ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) ]; \quad \forall t \tag {11.181}$$

Using this algorithm one has the following results summarized in Theorem 11.5.

Theorem 11.5 Consider the plant model (11.170) and its predictor form (11.172), the adjustable controller (11.176) and the PAA given by (11.179) and (11.180). Assume that:

1. The integer delay d is known.   
2. Upper bounds on the degrees of the polynomials A and $B ^ { * }$ are known.   
3. For all possible values of the plant parameters, the polynomial $B ^ { * }$ has all its zeros inside the unit circle.   
4. The sign of b1 is known.   
5. An upper bound for the disturbance $w ( t + 1 )$ in (11.172) is known.

Then:

$$\text { (i) } \quad \lim _ {t \to \infty} \sup \| \varepsilon^ {0} (t) | \leq \Delta \tag {11.182}\| \tilde {\theta} _ {C} (t) \| _ {F ^ {- 1}} < M < \infty ; \quad \forall t \tag {11.183}\text {(iii)} \quad \lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t + 1) - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) \| = 0 \tag {11.184}\| \phi_ {C} (t) \| < M < \infty \tag {11.185}$$

Proof In the proof we will need an equation for the evolution of $\phi _ { C } ( t )$ . This was already established in Sect. 11.2 taking into account that the system has all its zeros inside the unit circle (stable inverse). From (11.31) one has:

$$\left\| \phi_ {C} (t) \right\| _ {F} \leq c _ {1} + c _ {2} \max _ {0 < k < t + 1} | \varepsilon^ {0} (k + 1) |; \quad 0 < c _ {1}, c _ {2} < \infty \tag {11.186}$$

Let us now consider the evolution of the parameter error $\tilde { \theta } _ { C } ( t )$ . From (11.178) and (11.179) one has:

$$\tilde {\theta} _ {C} (t + 1) = \tilde {\theta} _ {C} (t) - \frac {F \phi_ {C} (t)}{1 + \phi_ {C} ^ {T} (t) F \phi_ {C} (t)} f [ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) ] \tag {11.187}$$

which allows to write:
