This theorem combines many of the usual statements about Lyapunov equations into a single compact package. For example, the statement ”an observable dynamical system as in (2) is asymptotically stable if and only if there exists a positive definite solution to the Lyapunov equation in (1),” follows from the implications

$$(i) \wedge (i i) \implies (i i i) a n d (i i) \wedge (i i i) \implies (i).$$

Combining implications in a similar fashion shows that for an asymptotically stable system, observability may be certified from the solution to a Lyapunov equation (in this context, the resulting Q is normally called the observability Gramian), and if we assume (iii), then asymptotic stability and observability are equivalent!

Remark 1. The version of Theorem 1 involving controllability states that given a discrete-time dynamical system

$$x _ {k + 1} = A x _ {k} + B u _ {k}$$

any two of the following conditions imply the third:

(i) The discrete time dynamical system is asymptotically stable.

(ii) The discrete time dynamical system is controllable.

(iii) There exists a (unique) positive definite solution to the Lyapunov equation

$$A ^ {\mathsf {T}} P A - P + B B ^ {\mathsf {T}} = 0.$$

Many other stability theorems involving Lyapunov equations are known (see, for example, [1, Chapter 7]). These often revolve around relaxations of (i)–(iii). For example, it is known that if conditions (ii) and (iii) in Theorem 1 are weakened to:

(ii)’ The discrete time dynamical system is detectible;

(iii)’ There exists a (unique) positive-semidefinite solution to the Lyapunov equation

$$A ^ {\mathsf {T}} Q A - Q + C ^ {\mathsf {T}} C = 0;$$

then together, (ii)’ and (iii)’ imply (i) (asymptotic stability). That is, when using Lyapunov equations to test for stability, stronger results than Theorem 1 are available. However, theorems based on these other statements tend to lose the appealing symmetry of Theorem 1, which is why we have highlighted this result in these notes (with respect to (ii)’ and (iii)’, (i) =⇒ (ii)’ and (i) =⇒ (iii)’, so in fact, ${ \bf \Phi } ( i ) \iff ( i i ) ^ { \prime } \wedge ( i i i ) ^ { \prime } )$ . The proof given in these notes can be adapted to cover the implication $( i ) \implies ( i i i ) ^ { \prime }$ ’ (although the argument given in section 2.3 must be strengthened). Can you figure out the details?
