# C. Parameters Tuning

Irrespective of the specific parameters utilized in the unsafe sliding mode controller, the proposed method incorporates a total of seven parameters. These parameters consist of $h _ { 1 } , \ h _ { 2 } .$ , and $h _ { 3 } .$ , which are utilized to define $\Upsilon ( z )$ , as well as $c _ { z } , \lambda ,$ and $z ( 0 )$ , which are employed to construct the dynamics of z. Additionally, h¯ is used to define the risky set $\mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { R } }$ . Although initially, tuning these parameters may appear complex, in the following, we present some guidelines for selecting these parameters, which can be effectively utilized to achieve our control objectives. To this end, let us focus on the closed-form solution (30) by investigating the effects of the above mentioned parameters on the dynamics of z in (16) and on ${ \pmb a } ( { \pmb x } , z ) , { \pmb b } ( { \pmb x } , z )$ , and $c ( { \pmb x } , z )$ in (23), (24), and (25), respectively.

The function ↵ should have the conditions stated in Lemma 1. After setting $h _ { 1 } > 0$ , the parameter $h _ { 2 }$ is chosen paying attention to the condition $h _ { 2 } < ( 2 / \pi ) h _ { 1 }$ . If h has a relative degree of one with respect to (1) and according to (26), $h _ { 2 }$ should be large which can be derived when $h _ { 1 }$ is large. Moreover, larger values of $h _ { 3 }$ is of our interest. On the other hand, smaller $h _ { 2 }$ and $h _ { 3 }$ is of our interest for $r \geq 2$ . Based on our discussion in Subsection IV-B, the augmented state z plays a crucial role in providing the necessary energy to prevent potential intersections between the system trajectory and the unsafe set. If the magnitude of $| z |$ is too small, it may not have enough stored energy to ensure the safe operation of the system. To ensure an adequate energy reserve in z, one strategy is to select an initial condition $z ( 0 )$ with a large magnitude. In order to preserve the functionality of $z ,$ it is advisable to set a large value for $c _ { z }$ since, as indicated by $( 1 6 ) , c _ { z }$ exhibits an inverse relationship with the rate of change in z. Similarly, the same reasoning implies that λ should be small to maintain the functionality of z.
