# Alternative Direct Adaptive Control Design via Adaptive Prediction

The basic idea is to use an indirect adaptive control approach as follows:

Step 1: Design an adaptive predictor for the filtered plant output.

Step 2: Force the output of the adaptive predictor to be equal to the desired filtered trajectory.

Remember that using the time-domain design discussed in Sect. 7.4.2, one has the $d + 1$ steps ahead predictor given by:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} (t + d + 1) = F (q ^ {- 1}) y (t) + G (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) = \theta_ {C} ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.32}$$

which has the property that:

$$[ P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1) - P (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} (t + d + 1) ] = 0 \tag {11.33}$$

Forcing the output of the prediction to be:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} (t + d + 1) = P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) = \theta_ {C} ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.34}$$

one gets the desired result. In the case of the unknown plant parameters, we will use a similar procedure but replacing the linear predictor with fixed coefficient by an adaptive predictor.

Step 1: Design of an adaptive predictor. Using the results of Sect. 6.2.1, one has:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} ^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \hat {F} (t) y (t) + \hat {G} (t) u (t) = \hat {\theta} _ {C} ^ {T} (t) \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.35}$$

which has the property that:

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} [ P (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + d + 1) - P (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} ^ {0} (t + d + 1) ] = 0$$

when using the PAA of (6.16), (6.17) and (6.19) (assuming that u(t) and y(t) are bounded).

Step 2: Use the ad-hoc separation theorem and compute a control such that the output of the adaptive predictor follows the desired filtered trajectory, i.e.:

$$P (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} ^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \hat {\theta} _ {C} ^ {T} (t) \phi_ {C} (t) = P (q ^ {- 1}) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) \tag {11.36}$$

Notice that the control resulting from (11.36) has exactly the same structure as the one given by (11.7).

Furthermore, using (11.36), the equation of the prediction error becomes:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + d + 1) = \left[ P \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y (t + d + 1) - P \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y ^ {*} (t + d + 1) \right] \\ = [ \theta_ {C} - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) ] ^ {T} \phi_ {C} (t) \tag {11.37} \\ \end{array}
$$
