# 1.2 Adaptive Control Versus Conventional Feedback Control

The unknown and unmeasurable variations of the process parameters degrade the performances of the control systems. Similarly to the disturbances acting upon the controlled variables, one can consider that the variations of the process parameters are caused by disturbances acting upon the parameters (called parameter disturbances). These parameter disturbances will affect the performance of the control systems. Therefore the disturbances acting upon a control system can be classified as follows:

(a) disturbances acting upon the controlled variables;   
(b) (parameter) disturbances acting upon the performance of the control system.

Feedback is basically used in conventional control systems to reject the effect of disturbances upon the controlled variables and to bring them back to their desired values according to a certain performance index. To achieve this, one first measures the controlled variables, then the measurements are compared with the desired values and the difference is fed into the controller which will generate the appropriate control.

A similar conceptual approach can be considered for the problem of achieving and maintaining the desired performance of a control system in the presence of parameter disturbances. We will have to define first a performance index (IP) for the control system which is a measure of the performance of the system (ex: the damping factor for a closed-loop system characterized by a second-order transfer function is an IP which allows to quantify a desired performance expressed in terms of “damping”). Then we will have to measure this IP. The measured IP will be compared to the desired IP and their difference (if the measured IP is not acceptable) will be fed into an adaptation mechanism. The output of the adaptation mechanism will act upon the parameters of the controller and/or upon the control signal in order to modify the system performance accordingly. A block diagram illustrating a basic configuration of an adaptive control system is given in Fig. 1.3.

Associated with Fig. 1.3, one can consider the following definition for an adaptive control system.
