# 10.1 The Problem

In the previous chapters, we assumed that:

1. The true plant model and the estimated plant model have the same structure (the true plant model is described by a discrete-time model with known upper bounds for the degrees $n _ { A } , n _ { B } + d )$ .

2. The disturbances are zero mean and of stochastic nature (with various assumptions).

3. For parameter estimation in closed-loop operation, the controller

(a) has constant parameters and stabilizes the closed loop;   
(b) contains the internal model of the deterministic disturbance for which perfect state disturbance rejection is assured.

4. The parameters are constant or piece-wise constant.

5. The domain of possible parameters values is in general not constrained (exception: recursive maximum likelihood and adaptive filtered closed-loop output error).

In this chapter, we will examine the effects of the violation of these hypotheses and see how they can be overcome. Appropriate modification of the parameter adaptation algorithms in order to obtain a robust parameter estimation will be introduced. This will allow us to guarantee certain boundedness properties for the parameter estimates and adaptation error, which will be needed for establishing the boundedness of plant input-output signals in adaptive control.

Probably the major difficulty encountered when analyzing adaptive control schemes is caused by the fact that we cannot assume that the plant regressor vector (containing the plant inputs and outputs) is bounded, i.e., that the adaptive controller stabilizes the plant. The boundedness of the regressor vector is a result of the analysis and not an hypothesis (as in the plant model identification in open or closed loop). The robustification of the parameter adaptation algorithms is crucial both for practical and theoretical reasons.

The basic factors in the robustification of the parameter estimation algorithms are:

• filtering of input/output data;   
• PAA with dead zone;   
• PAA with projection;   
• PAA without integrator effect;   
• data normalization.

Next, we will try to give a very brief account of the rationale for these modifications before making a detailed presentation in the subsequent sections.

• Filtering of input/output data
