# 7.4 Tracking and Regulation with Independent Objectives

This design method allows the desired tracking behavior independent of the desired regulation behavior to be obtained. Unlike the pole placement, this method results in the simplification of the zeros of the plant discrete-time model. This enables the desired tracking performances without approximations to be achieved (which is not the case for the pole placement).

This strategy can be considered as a particular case of the pole placement when hypothesis (H3) and (H4) for pole placement are replaced by:

(H3) $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ has all its zeros inside the unit circle;   
(H4) $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ may have common factors;

and the closed-loop poles contain $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ .

This strategy can also be viewed as a generalization of the model reference control which was the underlying linear control design used in a large number of adaptive control schemes (Landau 1979, 1981; Goodwin and Sin 1984; Ionescu and Monopoli 1977). It is also related to the stochastic minimum variance control as it will be shown in Sect. 7.6. As for the pole placement, this control strategy can be applied for both stable and unstable systems

• without restriction on the degrees of the polynomials $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ;   
• without restriction on the integer delay d of the system.

As a result of the simplification of the zeros (or equivalently as the result of including $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ in the closed-loop poles), this strategy can be applied only to discretetime models with stable zeros (from a practical point of view one should add that the zeros should be sufficiently damped). In particular this method is not applicable for the case of fractional time delay greater than $0 . 5 T _ { s }$ (this induces an unstable discrete-time zero) (Landau 1990b; Åström et al. 1984; Franklin et al. 1990). Therefore selection of the sampling interval to avoid this situation should be considered. The structure of the closed-loop system is represented in Fig. 7.9. The desired closed-loop poles are defined by a polynomial $P ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ) which specifies the desired regulation behavior.

The output follows perfectly the desired tracking trajectory with a delay of $d + 1$ samples. This is possible because $B ^ { \star } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ is canceled in the closed-loop transfer function.
