An important remark which will be subsequently used in the analysis is that $[ \nu ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 ) - \omega ( t + 1 ) ]$ , φ(t) and $F ( t + 1 )$ are all $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ measurable as it results from (4.105), (4.102) and (4.96).

Equations (4.95) and (4.98) define an equivalent feedback stochastic system. As in the deterministic case, defining the parameter error as:

$$\tilde {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t) - \theta \tag {4.110}$$

one gets from (4.95) that:

$$\tilde {\theta} (t + 1) = \tilde {\theta} (t) + F (t) \phi (t) \nu (t + 1) \tag {4.111}$$

Introducing the notation:

$$\bar {y} (t + 1) = - u (t + 1) = \phi^ {T} (t) \tilde {\theta} (t + 1) \tag {4.112}$$

and associating to $H ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ a minimal state space realization $[ A , b , c ^ { T } , \delta ] \ ( \mathrm { i . e . }$ , $H ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = c ^ { T } ( I - z ^ { - 1 } A ) ^ { - 1 } b + \delta )$ , (4.98) defines an equivalent linear feedforward block which can be written as:

$$x (t + 1) = A x (t) + b u (t + 1) \tag {4.113}\nu (t + 1) = c ^ {T} x (t) + \delta u (t + 1) + \omega (t + 1) \tag {4.114}$$

Equations (4.111) and (4.112) define an equivalent feedback block with state $\tilde { \theta } ( t )$ and input $\nu ( t + 1 )$ .

$$\tilde {\theta} (t + 1) = \tilde {\theta} (t) + F (t) \phi (t) \nu (t + 1) \tag {4.115}
\begin{array}{l} \bar {y} (t + 1) = \tilde {\theta} ^ {T} (t + 1) \phi (t) \\ = \phi^ {T} (t) \tilde {\theta} (t) + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t) v (t + 1) \tag {4.116} \\ \end{array}
$$

Equations (4.113) through (4.116) define an equivalent stochastic feedback system shown in Fig. 4.1b. The output of the linear feedforward block is disturbed by the martingale difference sequence $\{ \omega ( t + 1 ) \}$ . The feedback block defined by (4.115) and (4.116) can be considered in a first step as a linear time-varying block and, in a second step, the fact that $\phi ( t )$ is generated by an equation of the form (4.102) is taken into account. The reason is (like in deterministic environment) that some properties of this block (related to passivity) do not depend on how $\phi ( t )$ is generated. Clearly, from (4.98) it results that for $\hat { \theta } ( t ) \equiv \theta \ ( \tilde { \theta } ( t ) \equiv 0 )$ one has:

$$\nu (t + 1) \mid_ {\hat {\theta} (t) \equiv \theta} = \omega (t + 1)$$

Therefore, the objective of the analysis will be to show that for any initial conditions, $\nu ( t + 1 )$ ) will tend toward $\omega ( t + 1 )$ in a certain sense to be defined. Furthermore, one will have to show that the input to the linear block which characterizes the error between the input-output behavior of the model and of the adjustable system goes to zero in a certain sense. We will also be interested in the convergence toward zero of the parameter error, and on the boundedness of $\phi ( t )$ . The results of this analysis are summarized in the following theorem.
