# 1.3.1 Open-Loop Adaptive Control

We shall consider next as an example the “gain-scheduling” scheme which is an open-loop adaptive control system. A block diagram of such a system is shown in Fig. 1.8. The adaptation mechanism in this case is a simple look-up table stored in the computer which gives the controller parameters for a given set of environment measurements. This technique assumes the existence of a rigid relationship between some measurable variables characterizing the environment (the operating conditions) and the parameters of the plant model. Using this relationship, it is then possible to reduce (or to eliminate) the effect of parameter variations upon the performance of the system by changing the parameters of the controller accordingly.

This is an open-loop adaptive control system because the modifications of the system performance resulting from the change in controller parameters are not measured and feedback to a comparison-decision block in order to check the efficiency of the parameter adaptation. This system can fail if for some reason or another the rigid relationship between the environment measurements and plant model parameters changes.

Although such gain-scheduling systems are not fully adaptive in the sense of Definition 1.1, they are widely used in a variety of situations with satisfactory results. Typical applications of such principles are:

1. adjustments of autopilots for commercial jet aircrafts using speed and altitude measurements,

2. adjustment of the controller in hot dip galvanizing using the speed of the steel strip and position of the actuator (Fenot et al. 1993),

and many others.

Gain-scheduling schemes are also used in connection with adaptive control schemes where the gain-scheduling takes care of rough changes of parameters when the conditions of operation change and the adaptive control takes care of the fine tuning of the controller.

Note however that in certain cases, the use of this simple principle can be very costly because:

1. It may require additional expensive transducers.   
2. It may take a long time and numerous experiments in order to establish the desired relationship between environment measurements and controller parameters.

In such situations, an adaptive control scheme can be cheaper to implement since it will not use additional measurements and requires only additional computer power.
