# Remarks

• This theorem shows that some normalized quantities are bounded.

• The results of Theorem 4.3 are weaker than those of Theorem 4.2, but from the specific properties of the sequence $r ( t )$ it is possible in certain cases to conclude upon the convergence of the interesting variables (see Sect. 11.4 and Goodwin et al. 1980c; Goodwin and Sin 1984).

• If one can assume that in addition to condition (1), $\textstyle \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t \to \infty } r ( t ) = \infty$ , using Kronecker lemma (Appendix D, Lemma D.1) one obtains from (4.170), (4.171) and (4.172) the results of Theorem 4.2

• The use of this theorem will be illustrated in Chap. 11 in the context of direct adaptive control in a stochastic environment.

Proof The proof is based on the use of Theorem D.3 (Appendix D) taking into account the substitutions considered for the proof of Theorem 4.2. $r ( t + 1 )$ ) given in (4.173) satisfies condition (1) of Theorem D.3. Note that $r ( t + 1 )$ is $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ measurable. One has to verify now conditions (2) and (3) of Theorem D.3.

Multiplying both sides of (4.151) by $\omega ( t + 1 ) / r ( t + 1 )$ and then computing the conditional expectation by taking into account that $\hat { \theta } ( t ) , F ( t + 1 ) , [ \nu ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 ) -$ $\omega ( t + 1 ) ]$ and $r ( t + 1 )$ are $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ measurable, one obtains:

$$\mathbf {E} \left\{\frac {\bar {y} (t + 1) \omega (t + 1)}{r (t + 1)} \Big | \mathcal {F} _ {t} \right\} = \gamma (t) \frac {\phi^ {T} (t) F (t + 1) \phi (t)}{r (t + 1)} \sigma^ {2} \geq 0 \tag {4.174}$$

Therefore condition (2) of Theorem D.3 is satisfied. Then:

$$\sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \alpha (t + 1) \leq 2 \sigma^ {2} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \frac {\phi^ {T} (t) F (t + 1) \phi (t)}{r (t + 1)} \tag {4.175}$$

But:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \phi^ {T} (t) F (t + 1) \phi (t) \leq | F (t + 1) ^ {- 1} | \phi (t) F (t + 1) ^ {2} \phi (t) \\ \leq \mathrm{tr} [ F (t + 1) ^ {- 1} ] \phi (t) F (t + 1) ^ {2} \phi (t) \tag {4.176} \\ \end{array}
$$

and therefore (4.174) becomes:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \alpha (t + 1) \leq 2 \sigma^ {2} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \frac {\operatorname{tr} [ F (t + 1) ^ {- 1} ]}{r (t + 1)} \phi^ {T} (t) F (t + 1) ^ {2} \phi (t) \\ = 2 \sigma^ {2} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {\infty} \phi^ {T} (t) F (t + 1) ^ {2} \phi (t) \leq \frac {2 \sigma^ {2}}{\lambda_ {2 \min}} \operatorname{tr} [ F (0) - F (\infty) ] <   \infty \tag {4.177} \\ \end{array}
$$

since by construction $r ( t + 1 ) = \mathrm { t r } [ F ( t + 1 ) ^ { - 1 } ]$ . Therefore condition (3) of Theorem D.3 is also satisfied. Condition (4) of Theorem D.3 corresponds to condition (4) of Theorem 4.3. Then from (D.36) and (D.39) making the appropriate substitutions, one obtains (4.170) through (4.172). -
