Using pole placement, the Nyquist criterion will be satisfied for the nominal plant model because $R ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $S ( z ^ { - \bar { 1 } } )$ ) are computed using (7.21) for an asymptotically stable polynomial $P ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ defining the desired closed-loop poles $( P ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = 0 \Longrightarrow$ $| z | < 1 )$ . Of course, we are assuming at this stage that the resulting $S ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is also stable.

If the open-loop system is unstable either because $A ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ has zeros outside the unit circle (unstable plant model), or the computed controller is unstable in open loop $( S ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ has zeros outside the unit circle), the Nyquist stability criterion takes the form:

Stability criterion (Open-Loop Unstable Systems) The Nyquist plot of $H _ { O L } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ traversed in the sense of growing frequencies (from $\omega = 0$ to $\omega = 2 \pi )$ leaves the critical point [−1, j0] on the left and the number of encirclements of the critical point counter clockwise should be equal to the number of unstable poles of the open-loop system. 3

The number of encirclements of the critical point is given by:

$$N = P _ {C L} ^ {i} - P _ {O L} ^ {i}$$

where $P _ { C L } ^ { i }$ is the number of unstable poles of the closed loop and $P _ { O L } ^ { i }$ is the number of unstable poles of the open loop. Positive values of N correspond to clockwise encirclements. In order that the closed-loop system be asymptotically stable one should have:

$$N = - P _ {O L} ^ {i}$$

If the plant model is open-loop stable and if the controller is computed such that the closed-loop poles are asymptotically stable (for the nominal values of the plant model parameters), then if a Nyquist plot of the form of the curve (a) of the Fig. 8.3 is obtained, one concludes that the controller is unstable in open loop. In general one should avoid such a situation,4 since the minimal distance with respect to the critical point is generally small, and small changes in parameters will cause instability. The main remedy to this situation is to reduce the desired dynamic performance of the closed loop (change of the closed-loop poles $P ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ either by slowing down the dominant poles or adding additional poles).
