PLR methods are often subject to a positive real condition in a deterministic environment. Elimination of this positive real condition has motivated the development of a number of methods.

It is also interesting to remark that RPEM algorithms can be viewed as local solutions for relaxing the positive real conditions which occur in pseudo-linear regression algorithms (PLR).

From a practical point of view, the various classifications mentioned are not essential. What is important in practice is to be able to specify for a given algorithm:

(1) For what type of noise model, asymptotic unbiased estimates can be potentially obtained?

(2) What are the stability conditions in a deterministic environment and the convergence conditions in a stochastic environment?

(3) What are the initialization requirements (if any)?

Therefore, one has to consider the structure of the plant + disturbance model described by:

$$y (t) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} u (t) + v (t) \tag {5.1}$$

where u(t) is the plant input, y(t) is the measured output and v(t) is the disturbance: Three models for the disturbance are considered in general.

(1)

(5.2)

(2)

$$v (t) = \frac {C (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} e (t) \tag {5.3}$$

where $e ( t )$ is a zero mean white noise (or for technical reason defined as a martingale sequence). In this case, (5.1) is called an ARMAX model.

(3)

$$v (t) = \frac {C (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1}) D (q ^ {- 1})} e (t) \tag {5.4}$$

The monic polynomials $C ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $D ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ are assumed to have their roots inside the unit circle (asymptotically stable polynomials) and they have the form:

$$C (q ^ {- 1}) = 1 + c _ {1} q ^ {- 1} + \dots + c _ {n _ {C}} q ^ {- n _ {C}} = 1 + q ^ {- 1} C ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {5.5}D (q ^ {- 1}) = 1 + d _ {1} q ^ {- 1} + \dots + d _ {n _ {D}} q ^ {- n _ {D}} = 1 + q ^ {- 1} D ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) \tag {5.6}$$

Model (1) corresponds to output disturbances while models (2) and (3) correspond to the filtering of the disturbance through the poles of the system (termed also equation error disturbance).
