$$u (t) = \frac {1}{\hat {b} _ {1} (t)} [ y ^ {*} (t + 1) + \hat {C} ^ {*} (t) \hat {y} (t) - \hat {S} ^ {*} (t) u (t - 1) - \hat {R} (t) y (t) ] \tag {11.93}$$

This adjustable controller has almost the same structure as the controller used in the case of known parameters. The only difference is the replacement of $\boldsymbol { y } ^ { * } ( t ) = \hat { \boldsymbol { y } } ^ { 0 } ( t )$ ; $y ^ { * } ( t - 1 ) = \hat { y } ^ { 0 } ( t - 1 ) , . .$ . by the a posteriori predicted outputs $\hat { y } ( t ) , \hat { y } ( t - 1 )$ , . . . . Taking into account (11.86), (11.87) and (11.91), $\hat { y } ( t )$ can be expressed as:

$$\hat {y} (t) = y ^ {*} (t) + [ \hat {y} (t) - \hat {y} ^ {0} (t) ] = y ^ {*} (t) + [ \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t - 1) ] ^ {T} \phi (t) \tag {11.94}$$

This allows (11.92) and (11.93) to be rewritten as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \hat {S} (t) u (t) + \hat {R} (t) y (t) - \hat {C} ^ {*} (t) y ^ {*} (t) - \hat {C} ^ {*} (t) [ \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t - 1) ] ^ {T} \phi (t) \\ = y ^ {*} (t + 1) \tag {11.95} \\ \end{array}
$$

or:

$$
\begin{array}{l} u (t) = \frac {1}{\hat {b} _ {1} (t)} [ y ^ {*} (t + 1) + \hat {C} ^ {*} (t) y ^ {*} (t) - \hat {S} ^ {*} u (t) - R (t) y (t) \\ + C ^ {*} (t) [ \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t) - \hat {\theta} _ {C} (t - 1) ] ^ {T} \phi (t) ] \tag {11.96} \\ \end{array}
$$

where the term depending upon $[ \hat { \theta } _ { C } ( t ) - \hat { \theta } _ { C } ( t - 1 ) ]$ accounts in a certain sense for the speed of adaptation and will become null asymptotically if $\phi ( t )$ is bounded (one uses a decreasing adaptation gain algorithm). Therefore asymptotically $\hat { y } ( t )$ tends towards $y ^ { * } ( t )$ and the controller equation (11.96) will have the structure of the fixed controller for the known parameter case.

To summarize, the exact adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation for $d = 0$ is obtained using the adjustable controller defined by (11.92) whose parameters are updated by the PAA of (11.88) through (11.90) where:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - y ^ {*} (t + 1) \tag {11.97}$$

As it can be seen the resulting direct adaptive control uses as primary source of information the error between the measured plant output and the desired output (similar to the deterministic case). For this reason this scheme is also called stochastic model reference adaptive control (Landau 1981, 1982a; Dugard et al. 1982).

Because of the division by $\hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t )$ (see (11.96)), the sign of $b _ { 1 }$ should be assumed known, and the estimate of $\hat { b } _ { 1 } ( t )$ used is defined as:

$$
\hat {b} _ {1} ^ {\prime} (t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \hat {b} _ {1} (t) & | \hat {b} _ {1} (t) | > \delta > 0 \\ | \hat {b} _ {1} ^ {\prime} (t) | = \delta & | \hat {b} _ {1} (t) | <   \delta \end{array} \right. \tag {11.98}
$$

in order to avoid division by zero.
