1. One generally uses lower-order models which describe the behavior of the plant in a certain frequency region. Therefore unmodeled unstructured dynamics are present and they are very conveniently described by unstructured uncertainties in the frequency domain.   
2. The quality of the estimated models will depend upon the frequency content of the excitation signal. Often, one uses low-frequency excitation signals. Therefore in some frequency ranges (generally above a certain frequency) the precision of the model is low. This model error can also be represented as an unstructured uncertainty in the frequency domain.   
3. With a certain degree of conservativeness, unstructured uncertainty can also cover parametric uncertainty.   
4. A complete and simple theory for robust stability is available for the case of unstructured uncertainty in the frequency domain.   
5. Robustness indicators and design rules can be defined that are appealing and easy to understand.

The assessment of the robustness of a certain design passes through the examination of the frequency characteristics of the modulus of the various sensitivity functions. The sensitivity functions are introduced in Sect. 8.2. The concepts of robustness margins and their relevance in conjunction with model uncertainties and robust stability are discussed in Sect. 8.3. This leads to the definition of templates for the sensitivity functions which should be considered for obtaining a robust control system (Sect. 8.4). The properties of the sensitivity functions are examined in Sect. 8.5 in order to identify the knobs which allow the sensitivity functions to be shaped. Section 8.6 will present several methods for shaping the sensitivity functions. Other design methods are briefly recalled in Sect. 8.7. An example of robust control design is given in Sect. 8.8.

Robustness analysis and design are presented in the context of pole placement; however, the results are applicable “mutatis-mutandis” to the other control strategies presented in Chap. 7.
