# 13.4.2 Multi-Controller

The multi-controller is replaced by an adaptive controller. At each instant the parameters of the best model $G _ { \sigma }$ are used to compute the parameters of a robust controller designed using the pole placement technique explained in Chap. 8. The adaptive controller is also used to estimate the control input ${ \hat { u } } ( t )$ , which will be used to determine $\hat { y } ( t )$ and $\varepsilon _ { C L } ( t )$ in the CLOE algorithm.

The adaptive controller has an RST structure i.e.

$$S (q ^ {- 1}, \hat {\theta}) u (t) = - R (q ^ {- 1}, \hat {\theta}) y (t) + T (q ^ {- 1}, \hat {\theta}) y ^ {*} (t) \tag {13.5}$$

where $R ( q ^ { - 1 } , \hat { \theta } ) , S ( q ^ { - 1 } , \hat { \theta } )$ and $T ( q ^ { - 1 } , \hat { \theta } )$ are the controller’s polynomials computed using the pole placement method based on the model estimated parameters $\hat { \theta }$ . The reference trajectory, $y ^ { * } ( t )$ , is stored in the computer or generated via the reference model. The following specifications are considered for the pole placement control design:

Dominant poles: A pair of complex poles with a frequency of $^ 6$ rad/s (0.048 $f / f _ { s } )$ and a damping factor of 0.9. This frequency corresponds to the natural frequency of the first vibration mode of the fully loaded model.

Auxiliary poles: A pair of auxiliary poles with a frequency of 33 rad/s (0.263 $f / f _ { s } )$ and a damping factor of 0.3 which is close to the high-frequency poles of openloop models and the real poles $( 1 - 0 . 5 z ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { 3 } ( 1 - 0 . 1 z ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { 4 }$ . This choice of auxiliary poles helps reducing the input sensitivity function in middle and high frequencies as explained in Sect. 8.8. This makes the controller robust with respect to unmodeled dynamics.

Fixed terms: The controller contains an integrator and a term $( 1 + z ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { 2 }$ in the numerator to reduce the input sensitivity function in very high frequencies.

Reference model (tracking): A second order system with $\omega _ { 0 } = 6$ rad/s and a damping factor of 1 is chosen as the reference model for tracking.

The main advantage of the pole placement technique for adaptive control with switching is that the closed-loop poles remain unchanged for any value of switching signal $\sigma ( t )$ . It means that the closed-loop poles of the injected system are invariant with respect to the switching signal. This leads to the existence of a common Lyapunov matrix for the injected system that guarantees the stability of the adaptive system for arbitrary fast switching.
