# 10.2 Input/Output Data Filtering

The need for input-output data filtering results if one considers the problem of plant model identification in closed loop, even under the standard hypothesis 1 to 4 as it was shown in Chap. 9.

To estimate the plant model parameters in closed loop, one can either use the family of “closed-loop output error algorithms” or the family of “filtered open-loop parameter estimation algorithms”. While in the former the filtering is automatically done through the structure of the adjustable predictor, in the latter the plant inputoutput signals should be explicitly filtered.

The analysis presented in Sect. 9.4 allows to assess qualitatively the asymptotic frequency distribution of the bias when the true plant model and the estimated model do not have the same structure. The quality of the estimated model can be enhanced in the critical frequency region for design (for example, near the critical point [−1, 0] where the modulus of the output sensitivity function has its maximum). For further details see Karimi and Landau (1998).

The type of data filter used with open-loop parameter estimation algorithms for plant model identification in closed loop is of the form $S / \hat { P }$ or $A S / \hat { P }$ , where $\hat { P }$ corresponds to the estimated closed loop poles (or their desired values) and S which is part of the controller contains generally the inverse of the disturbance model. This type of filter will have the following influence upon the data:

1. It will remove the deterministic disturbance from the data.   
2. It will filter high-frequency components in the signals beyond the band pass defined by the desired closed-loop poles $\hat { P }$ .

As an example, assume that the output is disturbed by a step $\textstyle { \bigl ( } { \frac { \delta ( t ) } { 1 - q ^ { - 1 } } }$ where $\delta ( t )$ is a Dirac pulse) and the S polynomial contains $( 1 - q ^ { - 1 } )$ as a factor (integrator effect). Then the data filter will remove the d.c. disturbance (which other way will cause a drift in the parameters).
