# II. REINFORCEMENT LEARNING

The main part of this section provides a brief technical introduction aimed at readers with a physics background but without prior experience in Reinforcement Learning (RL) and its Actor-Critic (AC) framework (see, e.g., [2]). Readers already familiar with RL may wish to skip this part and proceed directly to Subsection II A, where we introduce our custom and physics-informed modification of the AC consisted in replacement of the ”standard” critic by a physicist-critic – a critic guided by a physical model of the environment.

RL is a data-driven version of Stochastic Optimal Control (SOC) which in its continuous time formulation with finite time horizon (episode) can be stated as follows:

$$\max _ {\pi} \int_ {0} ^ {T} d t e ^ {- \nu t} \mathbb {E} _ {a \sim \pi} [ r (s (t), a (t)) ], \tag {1}$$

where the $s ( t )$ and $a ( t )$ are state observed and action taken according to the policy π at the moment of time $t ,$ ν is the discount factor that tells the agent whether to prioritize short-term or long-term rewards, and $r ( s ( t ) , a ( t ) )$ is the reward encouraging or penalizing actions of the agents.

In RL, which should be considered as a data driven version of SOC, an agent interacts with an environment, which evolves in discrete time steps. Let us now explain SOC (1) on its discrete time RL version. Both in SOC and RL the environment is uncertain, and the next state $s ^ { \prime }$ is sampled based on the current state s and the agent’s action a: $s ^ { \prime } \sim p ( \cdot | s , a )$ , where the probability distribution is unknown (or at least not fully known). Then Eq. (1) turns to

$$\mathcal {G} _ {\pi} (T) = \Delta \mathbb {E} _ {s _ {0 \rightarrow N} \atop a _ {0 \rightarrow N}} \left[ \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {N} \gamma^ {n} r (s _ {n}, a _ {n}) \right], \tag {2}$$

where $\pi ( a _ { n } | s _ { n } )$ is the policy which defines the probability for the agent to select an action $\boldsymbol { a } _ { n } ~ = ~ \boldsymbol { a } ( t _ { n } )$ conditioned to the current state $\begin{array} { r } { \ s _ { n } \ = \ s ( t _ { n } ) } \end{array}$ . Here, $t _ { n } = n \Delta = n T / N , n = 0 , \cdot \cdot \cdot , N  \infty .$ , and $0 < \gamma \leq 1$ is the discrete time version of the discount factor ν in Eq. (1). In Eq. $( 2 ) , s _ { n  N }$ and $a _ { n  N }$ are shorthand notations for $( s _ { k + 1 } \sim p ( \cdot | s _ { k } , a _ { k } ) | k = n , \cdot \cdot \cdot , N - 1 )$ and $( a _ { k } \sim \pi ( \cdot | s _ { k } ) | k = n , \cdot \cdot \cdot , N - 1 )$ , respectively.
