# 4.3 Verification of Abstraction Error

We also check if the neural network output falls within the range we obtain from our linear model output plus some uncertainty. This is done using state-of-theart neural network verification tools, including α-β-CROWN [39,37,38,33] and nnenum [5]. The aforementioned tools, however, could not verify nor falsify the given verification queries for around 80% of cells, either timing-out or throwing an exception. We plan to submit these queries as benchmarks to VNN-COMP [6].

We hypothesize that the verification tools failed because the tools are generally used for verifying output properties, but, in these queries, our properties are over both the input and output space (given input $x \in X$ and output $Y =$ $f _ { N N } ( x )$ , the query is of the form: $A _ { m a t } \times X + b + \mathcal { U } _ { l b } \leq Y \leq A _ { m a t } \times X + b + \mathcal { U } _ { u b } )$ .

Currently, tools do not accept input and output properties in a joint format. To use the tool $\alpha { \mathrm { - } } \beta { \mathrm { - C R O W N } } .$ , we add a skip-connection layer to the neural network to have the input values to be present in the output space. For nnenum, we similarly had to create custom code to run the queries. We increased the timeout of the $\alpha { \mathrm { - } } \beta { \mathrm { - C R O W N } }$ to 12 hours but most of the cell queries timed out. A similar result occured with nnenum, with most cells throwing exceptions.

For the cells that the verification queries succeeded on, most were verified and a few of them falsified by a counterexample that was around 5% greater than the magnitude of our linear model plus some uncertainty. Thus, we decided to bloat further our uncertainty bounds by 10% and rerun the experiments to try to verify the properties again. The final results were similar to those of our previous experiments, which can be seen in Figures 6e for Property 2 and in the last column of Table 1 for Property 1.

<table><tr><td>Controller Frequency</td><td>1Hz</td><td>2Hz</td><td>10Hz</td><td>100Hz</td><td> $\infty$ Hz</td><td> $\infty$ Hz +  $\mathcal{U}$ </td></tr><tr><td>Verifiable % Cells</td><td>90</td><td>89</td><td>76</td><td>0</td><td>84</td><td>83</td></tr></table>

Table 1: Percentage of verifiable area of the state space for AATS with different working frequency controllers. As frequency increases, the safe area decreases. Promisingly, our method finds a larger verifiable area than $\geq 1 0 \mathrm { H z }$ frequencies.
