Assume that the true plant model has low frequency dynamics which we would like to be captured by the identified model and high-frequency dynamics which will not be modeled. The effect of the filter will be to attenuate the high frequencies beyond a certain frequency mainly defined by the closed-loop poles. In other words, the filter will enhance the data in the frequency range of interest for control and, as a consequence, a lower order model which will try to capture the behavior of the plant in this frequency range can be better identified.

The need for data filtering results also from the fact that a number of algorithms are subject to stability or convergence conditions which rely on the positive realness of a certain transfer function (see Chaps. 3, 4 and 9). Using the “averaging” analysis, it was shown in Chap. 4 that these conditions come from:

$$\mathbf {E} \{l ^ {T} \phi (t, \hat {\theta}) H (q ^ {- 1}) \phi^ {T} (t, \hat {\theta}) l \} > 0 \tag {10.1}$$

which using the Parseval theorem can be converted in:

$$\frac {1}{2 \pi} \int_ {- \pi} ^ {\pi} \phi_ {l} (\omega) H (e ^ {- j \omega}) \phi_ {l} (\omega) d \omega = \frac {1}{2 \pi} \int_ {0} ^ {\pi} \phi_ {l} (\omega) [ \operatorname{Re} H (e ^ {- j \omega}) ] \phi_ {l} (\omega) d \omega > 0 \tag {10.2}$$

where φl(ω) is the Fourrier transform of $l ^ { T } \phi ( t , \hat { \theta } )$ . If $H ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ is strictly positive real the above condition is satisfied. However, if H is not SPR overall the frequencies, but $\phi ( t , { \hat { \theta } } )$ is periodic and contains only frequencies in the range of frequencies where H is SPR, then the condition (10.2) is satisfied. Therefore, filtering the inputoutput data in the regions where H is not SPR will enhance the contribution of the components of $\phi$ in the “good” frequency region (positive real dominant spectrum) in order to satisfy (10.2).
