# 12.3 Robust Indirect Adaptive Control

In this section, we will present a design for indirect adaptive control (adaptive pole placement) which is robust with respect to:

• bounded disturbances;

• unmodeled dynamics.

As discussed in Sect. 10.6, the effect of unmodeled dynamics will be represented as a disturbance bounded by a function of $\| \phi ( t )$ , which is not necessarily bounded a priori. Several representations of the unmodeled dynamics are possible. Consider again the plant in (12.1), but with a disturbance $w ( t )$ acting as follows:

$$A \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y (t) = q ^ {- d} B \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) + w (t) \tag {12.84}$$

The plant (12.84) can be rewritten as (see also (12.2)):

$$y (t + 1) = \theta^ {T} \phi (t) + w (t + 1) \tag {12.85}$$

In this section, we will focus on disturbances defined by:

$$| w (t + 1) | \leq d _ {1} + d _ {2} \eta (t); \quad 0 < d _ {1}, d _ {2} < \infty \tag {12.86}\eta^ {2} (t) = \mu^ {2} \eta^ {2} (t - 1) + \| \phi (t) \| ^ {2} \tag {12.87}$$

where $d _ { 1 }$ accounts for a bounded external disturbance and $d _ { 2 } \eta ( t )$ accounts for the equivalent representation of the effect of unmodeled dynamics. More details can be found in Sect. 10.6 (the chosen representation for the unmodeled dynamics corresponds to Assumption B in Sect. 10.6).

It should be noted that even if the plant parameters are perfectly known, there is no fixed linear controller that could stabilize the plant for all possible values of $d _ { 2 }$ . Nevertheless, we can design a controller that stabilizes the plant provided that $d _ { 2 } \leq d _ { 2 } ^ { * }$ where $d _ { 2 } ^ { * }$ is a threshold that depends on the system parameters.

The assumptions made upon the system of (12.84) through (12.87) are:

• the orders of the polynomials $A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) , B ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and of the delay d are known $( n _ { A } , n _ { B } , d \mathrm { - k n o w n ) }$ ,   
• $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and $B ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ do not have common factors,   
• the disturbance upper bounds $d _ { 1 }$ and $d _ { 2 }$ are known.

We will discuss the robust adaptive pole placement in two situations.

(a) without taking into account the possible singularities in the parameter space during adaptation (standard robust adaptive pole placement),   
(b) taking into account the modification of parameter estimates in the singularity points (modified robust adaptive pole placement).
