// generate linear model
5 $A_{mat}, b, \mathcal{U}, \gamma \leftarrow \text{Linearize}(\mathcal{N}_{\mathcal{C}}, c, bf)$ ;
    // get successor cells
6 $C_f, C_i \leftarrow \text{Reach}(A_{mat}, b, \mathcal{U}, \gamma)$ ;
    // add new cell transitions to graph
7 $E \leftarrow E \cup \{(c, c_f) | c_f \in C_f\}$ ;
    // check containment of intermediate cells
8    while $\neg \text{ContainCheck}(C_i, \gamma)$ do
9 $bf \leftarrow bf * inc$ ;
10 $A_{mat}, b, \mathcal{U}, \gamma \leftarrow \text{Linearize}(\mathcal{N}_{\mathcal{C}}, c, bf)$ ;
11 $C_f, C_i \leftarrow \text{Reach}(A_{mat}, b, \mathcal{U}, \gamma)$ ;
12 $E \leftarrow E \cup \{(c, c_f) | c_f \in C_f\}$ ;
13    end
14 end

Ci throughout the time-step. The intermediate cells are used for containment checking to ensure the soundness of the linear model in the abstraction region γ (lines 8-12). After obtaining the cell abstraction graph ⟨C, E⟩, we have the possible transitions from all cells.

We then perform forward and backward reachablity on the abstraction graph to find the final reachable state. Algorithm 2 outlines the forward reachability process. We loop through and append the successor cells in the cell abstraction graph until the reachable cell set converges.

For backward reachability, we compute the initial unsafe states by successor cells achieved by the cell abstraction graph that meets the unsafe condition. Then, we generate the predecessor abstraction graph by reversing the transitions in the cell abstraction graph. We pass the initial unsafe states and the predecessor abstraction graph into Algorithm 2 to find all cells that are unsafe.
