# Strategy 2

1. Sample the plant output;   
2. Compute the control signal based on the controller parameters computed during the previous sampling period;   
3. Send the control signal;   
4. Update the plant model parameters;   
5. Compute the controller parameters based on the new plant model parameter estimates;   
6. Wait for the next sample.

Using this strategy, the delay between u(t) and y(t) is smaller than in the previous case. In fact, this is the strategy used with constant parameters controllers (Steps 4 and 5 are deleted). In this strategy, one uses a priori parameter estimates and the a priori adaptation error will appear in the stability analysis.

The analysis of the resulting schemes is very similar except that as indicated earlier, in Strategy 1 the a posteriori adaptation error will play an important role, while in Strategy 2, the properties of the a priori adaptation error will be used.

One uses a non-vanishing adaptation gain to get an indirect adaptive control scheme which can react to changes in plant model parameters. One uses a timedecreasing adaptation gain to implement indirect adaptive control schemes for the case of plant models with unknown but constant parameters (over a large time horizon). In the latter case, adaptation can be restarted either on demand or automatically, based on the analysis of an index of performance.

As indicated in Chap. 1, nothing stops us updating the estimates of the plant model parameters at each sampling instant, but updating the controller parameters only every N sampling instants. The analysis remains the same as long as N is finite. The use of this approach is related to:

• the possibility of getting better parameter estimates for control design,   
• the eventual reinitialization of the plant parameters estimation algorithm after each controller updating,

• the use of more sophisticated control designs requiring complex computations (in particular robust control design),   
• the reduction of the risk for getting non-admissible estimated plant models.
