# 3.1 The Problem

On-line estimation of the parameters of a plant model or of a controller is one of the key steps in building an adaptive control system. As shown in Chap. 1 the direct estimation of the controller parameters (when possible) can also be interpreted as a plant model estimation in a reparameterized form. Therefore the problem of online estimation of plant model parameters is a generic problem in adaptive control. Such systems will feature a parametric adaptation algorithm which will up-date the estimated parameters at each sampling instant.

On-line plant parameter estimation can also be viewed as a technique for achieving system identification in general by using recursive parametric estimation methods which process a pair of input-output measurements sequentially, as opposed to non recursive (or off-line) identification methods which process an input-output data file acquired over a certain time horizon at once. The problem of recursive plant model identification which is broader than just plant parameter estimation will be discussed in Chap. 5.

The on-line parameter estimation principle for sampled models is illustrated in Fig. 3.1.

A discrete-time model with adjustable parameters is implemented on the computer. The error between the system output at instant t , y(t) and the output predicted by the model y(t) ˆ (called plant-model error or prediction error) is used by the parameter adaptation algorithm, which, at each sampling instant, will modify the model parameters in order to minimize this error (in the sense of a certain criterion).

The input to the system is either a low level and frequency rich signal generated by the computer itself for the case of plant model identification, or the signal generated by the controller in the case of an adaptive control system. It can also be the combination of both (e.g., Identification in closed loop).

The key element for implementing the on-line estimation of the plant model parameters is the parameter adaptation algorithm (PAA) which drives the parameters of the adjustable prediction model from the data acquired on the system at each sampling instant. This algorithm has a recursive structure, i.e., the new value of the estimated parameters is equal to the previous value plus a correcting term which will depend on the most recent measurements.
