The external excitation can be applied either on the reference (Fig. 9.1a) or added to the output of the controller (Fig. 9.1b). This does not change the structure of the algorithm, it just affects the external quantity added to the input of the plant (or of the estimated plant model). However, the properties of the estimated model will depend on where the external excitation is applied.

Two families of recursive algorithms for plant model identification in closed loop can be derived from this basic scheme . The first approach starts from the re-writing of the closed-loop system output equation in term of the regressor of the predictor (i.e., in term of u(t)ˆ and y(t)ˆ ) and the previous values of the closed-loop predictor error (see Fig. 9.1). This approach generates the family of closed-loop output error recursive identification algorithms (Landau and Karimi 1997a). This family of algorithms is presented in Sect. 9.2.1

The second approach starts from the rewriting of the predictor output equation in terms of the measurement vector (i.e., in terms of u(t) and y(t)) and the previous values of the closed-loop prediction error. This approach leads to the expression of the closed-loop prediction error as a filtered least square type prediction error for plant model identification from input-output measurements (Åström 1993). This allows one to use many of the open-loop recursive identification algorithms with an appropriate filtering of the data. This family will be called filtered open-loop recursive identification algorithms (FOL). Note that these are the types of methods which have been used in indirect adaptive control for plant model parameter estimation. These methods are discussed in Sect. 9.3.

A comparison of the two approaches in terms of the frequency distribution of the asymptotic bias is presented in Sect. 9.4.
