Equations (3.113) through (3.115) defines an equivalent feedback system represented in Fig. 3.5. Equation (3.114) defines a linear block with constant parameters on the feedforward path, whose input is $- \phi ^ { T } ( t ) \tilde { \theta } ( t + 1 )$ . In the case of least squares predictor (known also as equation error predictor or series-parallel predictor) this block is characterized by a unitary gain. Equations (3.113) and (3.115) define a nonlinear time-varying block in the feedback path. For the particular case of estimation in open loop operation using recursive least squares this block is only time-varying, since φ(t) does not depend neither upon ε, nor upon $\hat { \theta }$ .

The objective of a PAA in a deterministic environment (absence of noise), is to drive the estimated parameter vector $\hat { \theta }$ towards a value such that the a posteriori prediction error vanishes asymptotically, i.e., lim $\mathsf { i } _ { t  \infty } \varepsilon ( t + 1 ) = 0$ . This objective can be expressed as a condition for the asymptotic stability of the equivalent feedback system associated to the PAA.

It is assumed of course, that the structure chosen for the adjustable model is such that there is a value of the parameter vector which gives a perfect input-output description of the plant (i.e., the plant model and the adjustable predictor have the same structure).

Similar equivalent feedback representation (EFR) can be obtained for other PAA and adjustable predictors. In general, the linear feedforward block will be characterized by a transfer function and the feedback block will be time-varying and nonlinear.

Two types of problems can be considered:

Analysis: Given an adjustable predictor and a PAA, find the most general stability conditions.

Synthesis: For a given adjustable predictor find the largest family of PAA for which stability conditions can be established.

The equivalent feedback representation associated to PAA is always formed by two blocks (see Fig. 3.5b): a linear time-invariant block (LINEAR) and a nonlinear timevarying (NL/TV). It is therefore sensible to use specific stability analysis tools dedicated to this type of system.
