# 2.3 State-based Neural Network Controller Verification

This work aims to assess the performance of closed-loop neural network controllers in order to provide guarantees on a set of given safety properties. Several methods exist for verifying state-based neural network controller performance [21,17,16,35] and are further elaborated upon in Section 5. These approaches use a combination of reachability analysis and neural network verification tools to reason about closed-loop safety properties. Reachability analysis, when applied to a system of differential equations, computes the set of states the system can enter after some bounded amount of time [27]. In other words, the reachable set is the union of all possible states that a system can enter from a given set of initial states, subject to the system’s dynamics and constraints [4].

We define a neural network controller $\mathcal { N } _ { \mathcal { C } }$ representing a policy π, as a function that maps states in a bounded state space $s$ to an action in the action space A. We consider a discrete-time dynamics model $s _ { t + 1 } = f ^ { \delta } ( s _ { t } ; a _ { t } )$ that maps state-action pairs to the next state after δ time has passed. By changing δ and keeping the control policy the same, we can analyze the performance of the controller under different fixed frequencies. We can also consider the control in the limit as $\delta$ approaches zero, which is the infinite frequency case.

In this paper, we perform a discrete abstraction in which the state space $s$ is partitioned in a finite number of hyperrectangular cells $c \in { \mathcal { C } }$ in order to make verification tractable. The set of feasible actions in a cell, denoted as $A _ { c } ,$ can be found with a neural network verification tool. We define an over-approximated dynamics model $f ^ { * } ( c ; A _ { c } )$ based on these specifications. The model maps each cell to a group of reachable next cells $\scriptstyle { \mathcal { C } } ^ { \prime }$ as well as their corresponding action ranges.

There are different types of reachability analysis: Backward reachability analysis starts from a target state and explores all possible paths leading to that state. Forward reachability analysis starts from an initial state and explores all reachable states through possible transitions.
