# 1.7 Concluding Remarks

2. While a conventional feedback control is primarily oriented toward the elimination of the effect of disturbances acting upon the controlled variables, an adaptive control system is mainly oriented toward the elimination of the effect of parameter disturbances upon the performances of the control system.   
3. A control system is truly adaptive if, in addition to a conventional feedback, it contains a closed-loop control of a certain performance index.   
4. Robust control design is an efficient way to handle known parameter uncertainty in a certain region around a nominal model and it constitutes a good underlying design method for adaptive control, but it is not an adaptive control system.   
5. Adaptive control can improve the performance of a robust control design by providing better information about the nominal model and expanding the uncertainty region for which the desired performances can be guaranteed.   
6. One distinguishes adaptive control schemes with direct adaptation of the parameters of the controller or with indirect adaptation of the parameters of the controller (as a function of the estimates of plant parameters).   
7. One distinguishes between adaptive control schemes with non-vanishing adaptation (also called continuous adaptation) and adaptive control schemes with vanishing adaptation. Although in the former, adaptation operates most of the time, in the latter, its effect vanishes in time.   
8. The use of adaptive control is based on the assumption that for any possible values of the plant parameters there is a controller with a fixed structure and complexity such that the desired performances can be achieved with appropriate values of the controller parameters. The task of the adaptation loop is to search for the good values of the controller parameters.   
9. There are two control paradigms: (1) adaptive control where the plant model parameters are unknown an time varying while the disturbance model is assumed to be known; and (2) adaptive regulation where the plant model is assumed to be known and the model of the disturbance is unknown and time varying.   
10. Adaptive control systems are nonlinear time-varying systems and specific tools for analyzing their properties are necessary.
