Introducing the block diagram for the plant model parameter estimation given in Fig. 1.12 into the scheme of Fig. 1.11, one obtains the general configuration of an indirect adaptive control shown in Fig. 1.13. Using the indirect adaptive control schemes shown in Fig. 1.13, one can further elaborate on the ad-hoc use of the “certainty equivalence” or “separation theorem” which hold for the linear case with known parameters.

In terms of separation it is assumed that the adaptive predictor gives a good prediction (or estimation) of the plant output (or states) when the plant parameters are unknown, and that the prediction error is independent of the input to the plant (this is false however during adaptation transients). The adjustable predictor is a system for which full information is available (parameters and states). An appropriate control for the predictor is computed and this control is also applied to the plant. In terms of certainty equivalence, one considers the unknown parameters of the plant model as additional states. The control applied to the plant is the same as the one applied when all the “states” (i.e., parameters and states) are known exactly, except that the “states” are replaced by their estimates. The indirect adaptive control was originally introduced by Kalman (1958).

However, as mentioned earlier, the parameters of the controller are calculated using plant parameter estimates and there is no evidence, therefore, that such schemes will work (they are not the exact ones, neither during adaptation, nor in general, even asymptotically). A careful analysis of the behavior of these schemes should be done. In some cases, external excitation signals may be necessary to ensure the convergence of the scheme toward desired performances. As a counterpart adaptation has to be stopped if the input of the plant whose model has to be estimated is not rich enough (meaning a sufficiently large frequency spectrum).
