# Choice of $H _ { R }$ and $H _ { S }$ —Examples

1. Zero steady state error for a step disturbance.

From (7.5) in the absence of a reference one has:

$$
\begin{array}{l} y (t) = \frac {A (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) S ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1})}{P (q ^ {- 1})} v (t) \\ D (q ^ {- 1}) v (t) = \delta (t); \qquad D (q ^ {- 1}) = 1 - q ^ {- 1} \\ \end{array}
$$

The problem can be viewed as either imposing the cancellation of the disturbance model (in this case $( 1 - q ^ { - 1 } ) )$ or as choosing $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ such that the gain of the transfer function between $v ( t )$ and $y ( t )$ be zero for the zero frequency (i.e., for $q = z = 1 )$ . Both points of view lead to:

$$H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) = (1 - q ^ {- 1})$$

2. Perfect rejection of a harmonic disturbance.

In this case the disturbance model is:

$$(1 + \alpha q ^ {- 1} + q ^ {- 2}) v (t) = \delta (t)$$

with

$$\alpha = - 2 \cos (\omega T _ {s}) = - 2 \cos \left(2 \pi \frac {f}{f _ {s}}\right)$$

and applying the same reasonment one finds:

$$H _ {S} (q ^ {- 1}) = (1 + \alpha q ^ {- 1} + q ^ {- 2})$$

If we would like only a desired attenuation at the frequency $f ,$ , one can use a pair of damped zeros in $H _ { S }$ with a damping factor in relation with the desired attenuation.

3. Opening the loop.

In a number of applications, the measured signal may contain specific frequencies which should not be attenuated by the regulation (they correspond in general to signals inherent to the technology of the process). In such cases the system should be in open loop at these frequencies. i.e., this disturbance is made unobservable at the input of the plant. From (7.8) in the absence of the reference, the input to the plant is given by:

$$u (t) = S _ {u p} (q ^ {- 1}) v (t) = \frac {A (q ^ {- 1}) H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) R ^ {\prime} (q ^ {- 1})}{P (q ^ {- 1})} v (t)$$

and therefore in order to make the input sensitivity function zero at a given frequency $f$ one should introduce a pair of undamped zeros in $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ i.e.,

$$H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) = (1 + \beta q ^ {- 1} + q ^ {- 2})$$

where

$$\beta = - 2 \cos (\omega T _ {s}) = - 2 \cos \left(2 \pi \frac {f}{f _ {s}}\right)$$

In many cases it is desired that the controller does not react to signals of frequencies close to $0 . 5 f _ { s }$ (where the gain of the system is in general very low). In such cases one uses:

$$H _ {R} (q ^ {- 1}) = (1 + \beta q ^ {- 1})$$

where

$$0 < \beta \leq 1$$

Note that $( 1 + \beta q ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { 2 }$ corresponds to a second order with a damped resonance frequency equal to $\omega _ { s } / 2$ :

$$\omega_ {0} \sqrt {1 - \zeta^ {2}} = \frac {\omega_ {s}}{2}$$

and the corresponding damping is related to $\beta$ by

$$\beta = e ^ {- \frac {\zeta}{\sqrt {1 - \zeta^ {2}}} \pi}$$

For $\beta = 1$ , the system will operate in open loop at $f _ { s } / 2$ .
