# Output Error Adaptive Predictor

As in Sect. 3.2, one considers that the process model is described by:

$$y (t + 1) = - a _ {1} y (t) + b _ {1} u (t) = \theta^ {T} (t) \varphi (t) \tag {3.126}$$

where:

$$\theta^ {T} = [ a _ {1}, b _ {1} ]; \quad \varphi^ {T} (t) = [ - y (t), u (t) ] \tag {3.127}$$

The output error adjustable predictor is described by:

$$\hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) = - \hat {a} _ {1} (t) \hat {y} (t) + \hat {b} _ {1} (t) u (t) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi (t) \tag {3.128}$$

where $\hat { y } ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 )$ is the a priori output of the predictor, and:

$$\hat {y} (t + 1) = - \hat {a} _ {1} (t + 1) \hat {y} (t) + \hat {b} _ {1} (t + 1) u (t) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t + 1) \phi (t) \tag {3.129}$$

is the a posteriori output of the predictor.

$$\hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) = [ \hat {a} _ {1} (t), \hat {b} _ {1} (t) ]; \quad \phi^ {T} (t) = [ - \hat {y} (t), u (t) ] \tag {3.130}$$

The difference with respect to the adjustable predictor used in RLS or in the “gradient algorithm” can be found in the replacement of the output measurement y(t) at instant t by $\hat { y } ( t )$ which represents the a posteriori predicted output at instant t . Since $\hat { y } ( t )$ should converge asymptotically to y(t), y(t) ˆ is an approximation of the output y(t) which will improve as the time passes.

The reason for using this type of adjustable predictor is that it can provide better performance when the plant output measurement is disturbed by noise. This can be explained by the fact that the output of this predictor does not directly depend upon the measured variables disturbed by noise. The output of the predictor depends indirectly upon the measurements through the adaptation algorithm but this dependence can decrease in time by using a decreasing adaptation gain. The fact that only the inputs and the previous outputs of the predictor are used, motivates the term parallel MRAS or output error. The predictor used in RLS is termed series-parallel (known also as equation error). The difference between the two types of predictors is illustrated in Fig. 3.7.

The a priori prediction error will have the expression:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi (t) \tag {3.131}$$

and the a posteriori prediction error will be given by:

$$\varepsilon (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} (t + 1) \tag {3.132}$$
