# 5.6 Validation of the Models Identified with Type II Methods

This section is concerned with the validation of models obtained using the identification methods based on the decorrelation between the observations and the prediction errors. The uncorrelation between the observations and the prediction error leads to an unbiased parameter estimation. However, since the observations include the predicted output which depends on the input, the uncorrelation between the residual prediction error and the observations implies also that the residual prediction error is uncorrelated with the input. The interpretation of this fact is that the residual prediction error does not contain any information depending upon the input, i.e., all the correlations between the input and the output of the plant are represented by the identified model.

The principle of the validation method is as follows:6

• If the disturbance is independent of the input $( \implies \mathbf { E } \{ w ( t ) u ( t ) \} = 0 )$   
• If the model + disturbance structure chosen is correct, i.e., representative of the reality.   
• If an appropriate identification method has been used for the chosen structure.   
• If the degrees of the polynomials $A ( q ^ { - 1 } ) , B ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ and the value of d (delay) have been correctly chosen (the plant model is in the model set).

then the predicted outputs $\hat { y } ( t - 1 ) , \hat { y } ( t - 2 ) , . .$ . generated by a model of the form (output error type predictor):

$$\hat {A} (q ^ {- 1}) \hat {y} (t) = q ^ {- d} \hat {B} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) \tag {5.101}$$

and the prediction error ε(t) are asymptotically uncorrelated, which implies:

$$\mathbf {E} \{\varepsilon (t) \hat {y} (t - i) \} \approx \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \varepsilon (t) \hat {y} (t - i) = 0; \quad i = 1, 2, 3, \dots$$

The validation method implements this principle. It is made up of several steps:

1. Creation of an I/O file for the identified model (using the same input sequence as for the system).   
2. Creation of files for the sequences $\{ y ( t ) \} ; \{ \hat { y } ( t ) \} ; \{ \varepsilon ( t ) \}$ (system output, model output, residual output prediction error). These files must contain at least 100 data in order that the test be significant.   
3. Uncorrelation test between the residual output prediction error sequence and the delayed prediction model output sequences.
