# 11.4.3 Martingale Convergence Analysis

The use of the averaging method allows a straightforward analysis of the asymptotic properties of the adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation schemes. However, this analysis does not provide any information on the boundedness of the input and output of the plant during the adaptation transient. The objective of the martingale convergence analysis is to show that not only the asymptotic objectives are achieved but also that all the signals (including input and output of the plant) remain bounded (in a mean square sense). Of course the same positive real condition which occurred in the analysis through the averaging method will be encountered. The martingale convergence analysis of self-tuning minimum variance tracking and regulation has been the subject of a large number of papers (Goodwin et al. 1980b, 1980c; Guo 1993, 1996; Johansson 1995; Fuchs 1982; Chen and Guo 1991; Kumar and Moore 1982; Ren and Kumar 2002; Goodwin and Sin 1984). In particular the convergence in the case of matrix adaptation gain is still a subject of research.

In this section, we will prove the following results for the exact adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation with d = 0.

Theorem 11.4 (Goodwin and Sin 1984) For the adaptive minimum variance tracking and regulation algorithm given by (11.92), (11.97) and (11.88) through (11.90) provided that:

(1) An upper bound for the orders of the polynomials A, B and C is known.   
(2) The integer delay $d = 0$ .   
(3) For all possible values of the plant model parameters $B ^ { * } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ has its zeros inside the unit circle.   
(4) The sign of $\dot { } b _ { 1 }$ is known.   
(5)

$$\lim _ {N \to \infty} \sup \frac {\lambda_ {\max} F (N)}{\lambda_ {\min} F (N)} \leq K < \infty \tag {11.139}$$

where $\lambda _ { \mathrm { m a x } } F ( N )$ and $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } F ( N )$ are the maximum and minimum values of the eigenvalues of the matrix adaptation gain (bounded condition number assumption).

(6) The sequence $\{ e ( t ) \}$ is a martingale difference sequence defined on a probability space $( \varOmega , \mathcal { F } , \mathcal { P } )$ and adapted to the sequence of increasing algebras $\mathcal { F } _ { t }$ generated by the observations up to and including time t. The sequence $\{ e ( t + 1 ) \}$ is assumed to satisfy the following:
