# 5.5.4 Instrumental Variable with Auxiliary Model

The general idea behind the instrumental variable methods consists in the construction of a new observation vector, that is highly correlated with the uncontaminated variables, but uncorrelated with the noise disturbance in order to obtain asymptotically $\mathbf { E } \{ \phi ( t ) \varepsilon ( t + 1 ) \} = 0$ .

One of such type of algorithm is the instrumental variable with auxiliary model (Young 1969). The plant + disturbance model considered in this case, is the same as for the output error (5.58). The method can be viewed either as an improvement of recursive least squares or as a midway between recursive least squares and output error algorithms. The adjustable predictor is the one used in recursive least squares:

$$\hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi (t) \tag {5.91}$$

where:

$$\hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) = \left[ \hat {a} _ {1} (t), \dots , \hat {a} _ {n _ {A}} (t), \hat {b} _ {1}, \dots , \hat {b} _ {n _ {B}} (t) \right] \tag {5.92}\phi^ {T} (t) = [ - y (t), \dots , - y (t - n _ {A} + 1), u (t - d), \dots , u (t - d - n _ {B} + 1) ] \tag {5.93}$$

and respectively:

$$\hat {y} (t + 1) = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t + 1) \phi (t) \tag {5.94}$$

The prediction errors are defined by:

$$\varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} ^ {0} (t + 1) \tag {5.95}\varepsilon (t + 1) = y (t + 1) - \hat {y} (t + 1) \tag {5.96}$$

An auxiliary prediction model is used to generate the instrumental variable $y _ { I V }$ :

$$
\begin{array}{l} y _ {I V} (t) = - \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n _ {A}} \hat {a} _ {i} (t) y _ {I V} (t - i) + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n _ {B}} \hat {b} _ {i} (t) u (t - d - i) \\ = \hat {\theta} ^ {T} (t) \phi_ {I V} ^ {T} (t - 1) \tag {5.97} \\ \end{array}
$$

where:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \phi_ {I V} ^ {T} (t) = \left[ - y _ {I V} (t), \dots , - y _ {I V} (t - n _ {A} + 1), \right. \\ \left. u (t - d), \dots , u (t - d - n _ {B} + 1) \right] \tag {5.98} \\ \end{array}
$$

The output of this auxiliary prediction model depends on the previous predicted outputs and not on the previous measurement (it is an output error type model). These new variables will be less affected by the disturbance that will act only through the PAA. If an asymptotically decreasing adaptation gain is used, asymptotically $y _ { I V } ( t )$ will solely depend upon the input which is not the case for ${ \hat { y } } ( t )$ given by the least squares predictor of (5.91). The new observation vector is defined by:

$$\Phi (t) = \phi_ {I V} (t) \tag {5.99}$$
