$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {d}{d \tau} V (\hat {\theta} (\tau), R (\tau)) = - (\hat {\theta} - \theta^ {*}) ^ {T} [ \tilde {G} (\hat {\theta}) + \tilde {G} ^ {T} (\hat {\theta}) - \lambda_ {2} G (\hat {\theta}) ] [ \hat {\theta} - \theta^ {*} ] \\ - (\hat {\theta} - \theta^ {*}) ^ {T} [ R + \lambda_ {2} G (\hat {\theta}) - G _ {\lambda} (\hat {\theta}) ] (\hat {\theta} - \theta^ {*}) \tag {4.81} \\ \end{array}
$$

Therefore, in order to have global convergence, it is sufficient to show that:

$$\bar {G} (\hat {\theta}) = \tilde {G} (\hat {\theta}) + \tilde {G} ^ {T} (\hat {\theta}) - \lambda_ {2} G (\hat {\theta}) \tag {4.82}$$

is a positive semi-definite matrix in order to assure that:

$$\frac {d}{d \tau} V (\hat {\theta} (\tau), R) < 0 \tag {4.83}$$

Equation (4.82) can be rewritten as:

$$\bar {G} (\hat {\theta}) = \mathbf {E} \{\phi (t, \hat {\theta}) [ H (q ^ {- 1}) + H (q ^ {- 1}) - \lambda_ {2} ] \phi^ {T} (t, \hat {\theta}) \} \tag {4.84}$$

taking into account that $H ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ is a scalar transfer operator and $\lambda _ { 2 }$ is a scalar. Using the same developments as in (4.48) through (4.51), one concludes that $\bar { G } ( \hat { \theta } )$ is a positive definite matrix if the condition of (4.67) is satisfied. -

Example 4.1 (Output Error) One can illustrate the use of this tool by applying it to the analysis of the convergence of the output error scheme which uses a parallel adjustable predictor and a filtered prediction error as adaptation error (for details see Sect. 3.3 and the previous example given in Sect. 4.1).

The plant model to be identified is given by (4.1) with the assumption that u(t) and w(t) are independent. The a posteriori output of the adjustable predictor is given by (4.23). The a posteriori prediction error is given by (4.26) and the a posteriori adaptation error is given by:

$$\nu (t + 1) = D \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) \varepsilon (t + 1) \tag {4.85}$$

where:

$$D \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) = 1 + d _ {1} q ^ {- 1} + \dots + d _ {n} q ^ {- n} \tag {4.86}$$

is an asymptotically stable polynomial.

In order to apply Theorem 4.1, one should first derive the equations for $\nu ( t + 1 )$ ). From (4.26), one obtains:

$$\varepsilon (t + 1) = \frac {1}{A (q ^ {- 1})} [ \theta - \hat {\theta} (t + 1) ] ^ {T} \phi (t) + \frac {1}{A (q ^ {- 1})} w (t + 1) \tag {4.87}$$

where:

$$A \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) = 1 + a _ {1} q ^ {- 1} + \dots + a _ {n _ {A}} q ^ {- n _ {A}} \tag {4.88}$$

From (4.85) and (4.87), one obtains:
