One significant limitation of ETC strategies, both for ODE and PDE systems, lies in the necessity for continuous monitoring of event-triggering functions to detect events. This does not lend itself well to digital implementation. For these strategies, we use the term continuous-time event-triggered control (CETC). To address this issue, one approach involves designing a periodically-checked event-triggering condition, leading to what is commonly referred to as periodic eventtriggered control (PETC) [11]. Here, the event-triggering condition is checked at regular intervals, and at each instant, a decision is made regarding the necessity of a new control update. Another solution is self-triggered control (STC) [13], which preemptively calculates next event time at current event time, based on predictions utilizing state measurements and insights into plant dynamics. Both PETC and STC maintain the resource efficiency of CETC. With PETC, the control input is updated aperiodically at events, even though the triggering condition is checked periodically. Similarly, in STC, the control input is updated aperiodically at events, while also computing the time of the next event. This makes both types of control amenable to digital implementations, as the triggering condition or next event time can be processed in standard time-sliced digital software. During the past few years, several interesting works devoted to both PETC [4,9,11,12,19,31,41] and STC [3,5,22,23,38,42,43] of ODE systems have been published. To the best of our knowledge, only the studies [25,27,32,36,37] have explored STC or/and PETC strategies for infinite-dimensional systems. In [32], the authors develop a PETC approach for a network of semilinear diffusion PDEs with in-domain actuation and distributed or point measurements. Leveraging semigroup theory, [37] discusses a full-state feedback PETC mechanism for infinite-dimensional systems faced with unbounded control operators, while [36] introduces a full-state feedback STC approach for infinite-dimensional systems with bounded control operators. In [27], the authors present the first PETC and STC PDE backstepping boundary control design for a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs using boundary measurements. The observer-based PETC extension to diffusion PDEs with moving boundaries featuring the onephase Stefan problem is discussed in [25].
