Remark 1. Since the sliding surface is linear and it is susceptible to singularity, one can assume the singularity-free sliding surface as follows:

$$\bar {s} = \gamma_ {1} \varrho (\tilde {\boldsymbol {q}}) + \tilde {\omega} \tag {32}$$

Where $\varrho ( \tilde { \pmb q } )$ is denoted as [26]:

$$
\varrho (\tilde {\boldsymbol {q}}) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \tilde {\boldsymbol {q}} ^ {\frac {c _ {1}}{c _ {2}}}, & \text { if   } \bar {s} = 0 \text {   or   } \bar {s} \neq 0, | \tilde {\boldsymbol {q}} | > \epsilon \\ \tilde {\boldsymbol {q}}, & \text { if   } \bar {s} \neq 0, | \tilde {\boldsymbol {q}} | \leqslant \epsilon \end{array} \right. \tag {33}
$$

with $c _ { 1 }$ and $c _ { 2 }$ are positive constant and $\textstyle 0 < { \frac { c 1 } { c 2 } } < 1 . \ \epsilon$ is a threshold small value.

Step ${ \it 6 : }$ (Development of QASMC for the attitude control). Considering (31) and (32), we develop the QASMC as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {T} = - J _ {m} ([ \tilde {\omega} ] _ {\times} \tilde {R} _ {Q} \omega_ {d} - \tilde {R} _ {Q} \dot {\omega} _ {d}) - [ J _ {m} \omega ] _ {\times} \omega \\ - J _ {m} \gamma_ {1} \frac {c _ {1}}{c _ {2}} \Delta (\tilde {q}) - \mu_ {1} s - \hat {\Lambda} \operatorname{sign} (s) \tag {34} \\ \end{array}
$$

Where $\Delta ( \tilde { q } ) = [ \tilde { q } _ { 1 } \dot { \tilde { q } } _ { 1 } , \tilde { q } _ { 2 } \dot { \tilde { q } } _ { 2 } , \tilde { q } _ { 3 } \dot { \tilde { q } } _ { 3 } ] ^ { \top }$ . To enhance the robustness and decrease the chattering issue (the main reason for control failure), the adaptive law is used to update the parameter $\Lambda ,$ adjusting the control signal. $\mu _ { 1 }$ is a random positive constant, and the adaptive online update law with $\hat { \bf \Lambda } = [ \hat { \Lambda } _ { 1 } , \hat { \Lambda } _ { 2 } , \hat { \Lambda } _ { 3 } ] ^ { \top }$ is defined as:

$$
\text { Adaptive   Law } \left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\hat {\Lambda}} _ {1} = \lambda | | s | | \\ \dot {\hat {\Lambda}} _ {2} = \lambda | | s | | \\ \dot {\hat {\Lambda}} _ {3} = \lambda | | s | | \end{array} \right. \tag {35}
$$

where $\lambda > 0$ and no-zero positive number.

Theorem 2. Consider the quaternion-based attitude dynamics of UAV described in (6). The attitude system is asymptotically stable and the attitude error $\tilde { Q } = [ \tilde { q } _ { 0 } , \tilde { \pmb q } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }  [ \bar { 1 , } 0 , 0 , 0 ] ^ { \top }$ and $\tilde { \omega }  0 _ { 3 \times 1 }$ in (28) when the proposed control input (34) with Adaptation update law (35) is applied.
