Table 3. Agent’s strategies for the adversarial Iterated Boolean Game. Decision making is analyzed in function of current state for the adversarial version.

<table><tr><td>Modes</td><td>State Sequence</td></tr><tr><td>Unsocial, Optimistic</td><td> $\langle\{\overline{a}bc\},\{a\overline{b}c\},\{abc\}\rangle$ </td></tr><tr><td>Unsocial, Realistic</td><td> $\langle\{\overline{a}bc\},\{a\overline{b}c\},\{abc\}\rangle$ </td></tr><tr><td>Social, Optimistic</td><td> $\langle\{\overline{a}b\overline{c}\},\{\overline{a}\overline{b}c\}\rangle$ </td></tr><tr><td>Social, Realistic</td><td> $\langle\{\overline{a}\overline{b}\overline{c}\},\{\overline{a}bc\}\rangle$ </td></tr></table>

Table 4. Most likely state sequences in the Iterated Boolean Game.

far below the most likely state path as predicted by our model. In all cases, it is beneficial for all system agents to be designed such that they are aware, and actively employ knowledge, of the non-deterministic properties of Cyber Physical Games.

In cases where CPSs are designed in a bottom-up approach, scenarios will arise when an agent is added to a game where other agents have irrevocably committed to satisfying certain formulae. In these cases, the novel agent has an advantage if it has flexibility in choosing its formula: the described model can be used to analyze the system and extract the most likely path of states a priori. Even in collaborative cases, this has relevance for system optimization.

Finally, we offer the conjecture that the "Multi-armed bandits"34 algorithmic framework is the ideal way to formulate and guide the behavior of agents in Cyber Physical Games, as it provides mechanisms that can be applied to the described problem characteristics, and an extensive body of work has been developed to deal with different probability distributions for each action.
