# C. Contributions

In this paper, we consider cascaded control design and adopt quaternion-based ABC to handle the UAV underactuated issues leveraging an auxiliary control input (virtual control). The auxiliary control of ABC generates the required thrust and the desired UAV orientation for attitude control. In addition, with the novel quaternion-based controllers, we resolve the persistent singularity shortcomings of other common methods in literature (e.g. Euler-based controller). Afterwards, we mitigate chattering issues of the control signal, the fundamental reason for actuator damage, by modifying the sliding surface. The “fast” and adaptive aspects of the proposed quaternionbased AFTSMC are crucial in reducing chattering problems. Also, The finite-time convergences with smooth control signals are guaranteed by the established quaternion-based AFTSMC compared to conventional Euler-based SMC. In order to enhance the robustness of the proposed controllers, the adaptive features of proposed controllers are developed to adjust control parameters while unknown time-varying parametric uncertainties and significant initialization errors exist. The main contributions are as follows:

(1) A novel quaternion-based ABC is proposed to control the UAV translation dynamics by addressing the underactuated issues via an auxiliary control input (virtual control).   
(2) A quaternion-based AFTSMC is proposed for the UAV rotational dynamics to mitigate the chattering (the main reason for actuator failure) by fast and non-singular features of the sliding surface with adaptation control parameters.   
(3) The proposed attitude quaternion-based controller guarantees states converge to desired values in finite time with smooth control signal.

TABLE I: Nomenclature
