# 2 Background

An agent is a goal-oriented system, operating in an environment; i.e., a set of physical and/or digital objects with various properties and relationships between objects, which contains the agent itself. An agent is capable of acting upon the environment, modifying some (or all) of its properties. A specific combination of properties’ values (including of the agent itself) is defined as a state s of the environment. The set of all possible states is referred to as the environment’s state space . A rational agent will attempt to meet its goal by performing actions that maximize or minimize its utility function14.

Within the context of this work, the environment is a Cyber Physical System15: a super-system that "combines cyber systems (computational systems such as microprocessors and digital communication networks) with other physical systems (electromechanical, chemical, structural, and biological systems)16". Of particular interest to us is the communication between the cyber systems and the environment; particularly, the lack of determinism in such a distributed system whose emergent properties give rise to Cyber Physical Games.

As first formally described by Lamport in his seminal 1978 paper13: "In a distributed system, it is sometimes impossible to say that one of two events occurred first. The relation "happened before" is therefore only a partial ordering of the events in the system.". This property gives rise to interesting phenomena in Cyber Physical Games, that introduces additional complexity compared to traditional turn-based17 or distributed12 games.
