Remark 3 Recall from R4 of Theorem 1 that $V ^ { p } ( t ) \leq$ $e ^ { - b ^ { * } t } V _ { 0 }$ , for all $t > 0$ . Therefore, it follows from Lemma 2 that the time of the next event generated by the P-CETC approach (48)-(55) is greater than or equal to the time of the next event generated by the R-CETC approach (29)–(31), with the equality occurring if $V ^ { p } ( t ) = e ^ { - b ^ { * } t } V _ { 0 }$ for all times between events. If $V ^ { p } ( t )$ deviates from being equal to the barrier $e ^ { - b ^ { * } t } V _ { 0 }$ for any period between two events, the time of the next event generated by the P-CETC approach will be strictly greater than the time of the next event generated by the R-CETC approach. As mentioned in Remark 2, when $c \to \infty$ , we have that $V ^ { p } ( t ) \to e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 }$ for all $t > 0$ (see Fig. 3 also). For a parameter c chosen such that $0 < c < \infty$ , it is unlikely that $V ^ { p } ( t ) = e ^ { - b ^ { * } t } V _ { 0 }$ for all times between events, thereby almost always resulting in an event time strictly greater than that generated by the R-CETC.

Remark 4 Due to R4 of Theorem 1, in the absence of disturbances, the violation of the performance barrier by the Lyapunov function is not possible. However, in the presence of disturbances, the performance barrier may be violated. Particularly, when time reaches large values, the performance residual $W ^ { p } ( t ) = e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } - V ^ { p } ( t )$ becomes more susceptible to disturbances. To guard the P-CETC design against disturbances, the following modification to the triggering mechanism can be made:

$$\Gamma^ {p} (t) \triangleq d ^ {2} (t) - \gamma m ^ {p} (t) - \frac {c}{\rho} \max \left\{0, W ^ {p} (t) \right\}, \tag {70}$$

with $m ^ { p } ( t )$ satisfying

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {m} ^ {p} (t) = - \eta m ^ {p} (t) - \rho d ^ {2} (t) + \beta_ {1} \| u [ t ] \| ^ {2} + \beta_ {2} u ^ {2} (1, t) \tag {71} \\ + c \max \left\{0, W ^ {p} (t) \right\}, \\ \end{array}
$$

for $t \in ( t _ { j } ^ { p } , t _ { j + 1 } ^ { p } ) , j \in \mathbb { N }$ , and $m ^ { p } ( t _ { 0 } ^ { p } ) = m ^ { r } ( t _ { 0 } ^ { r } ) > 0 , m ^ { p } ( t _ { i } ^ { p - } ) =$ $m ^ { p } ( t _ { j } ^ { p } ) = m ^ { p } ( t _ { j } ^ { p + } )$ .
