This example is sufficiently simple that we can merely list all permutations of actions’ effects and analyze the predicted outcome. Unsocial, optimistic agents: given $P ( \mathbf { m } _ { n } )$ , φ is satisfied on 33% of runs, ψ is satisfied on 50% of runs, and 17% of runs satisfy neither formula, with an average run length of 4 time steps. In this case, ψ is dominant since it allows for arbitrary time between transition from the base state until its completion, while φ requires an immediate transition from its second state to its third state (Equation 7). Unsocial but realistic agents: given $P ( \mathbf { m } _ { n } )$ , φ is satisfied on 40% of runs, ψ is satisfied on 40% of runs, and 10% of runs satisfy neither formula, with an average run length of 3.8 time steps. Compared to the prior case, $\left\| P ( \mathbf { m } _ { n } ) \right\|$ is smaller since c1 can abort unsuccessful strategies, thus the revised success rates. Social but optimistic agents: φ is uniquely satisfied on 25% of runs, ψ is uniquely satisfied on 33% of runs, both are satisfied on 17% of runs, and 25% of runs satisfy neither formula, with an average run length of 4 time steps. Social and realistic agents: φ is satisfied on 50% of runs, whilst ψ is satisfied 100% of runs, with an average run length of 2.3 time steps. Aggregate results, showing average number of time steps expected for satisfaction of formulae are depicted in Table 2.

<table><tr><td>Modes</td><td> $\phi$ </td><td> $\psi$ </td></tr><tr><td>Unsocial, Optimistic</td><td>12.12</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>Unsocial, Realistic</td><td>9.5</td><td>9.5</td></tr><tr><td>Social, Optimistic</td><td>16</td><td>12.12</td></tr><tr><td>Social, Realistic</td><td>4.6</td><td>2.3</td></tr></table>

Table 2. Average number of time steps required per successful satisfaction of agents’ formulae in function of strategy.

Regardless of social behavior, both success rates are improved if agents are aware of CPSs’ temporal relativity, and adjust their behavior accordingly. Realistic behavior and collaboration result in the best possible result for both agents.Most interestingly, collaboration when ignoring the temporal relativity of CPSs results in the worst possible outcome: overhead caused by naive collaboration acts to the detriment of both agents. Our simulation model yields the results displayed on Fig. 1, with Mean Square Error (MSE) in relation to predicted outcomes displayed.
