The first and most challenging is the limitation of underactuated systems [1], [7]. Most UAVs are considered underactuated systems, where having control over all states is often impossible. While [17] suggested super-twisting sliding mode control to enhance robustness and reduce chattering, they did not account for the practical and realistic limitations of underactuated UAVs. Backstepping control addresses the complexity of underactuated systems, leveraging its inherent cascaded strategy to generate auxiliary control [16], [18]. Another challenge is the singularity issue, causing catastrophic instability in UAVs’ flight missions. Preventing singularity in control design and model representation is fundamental for ensuring stability and effective path planning. While [19]–[22] introduced Euler angle-based sliding mode controllers to enhance control performance, they failed to develop singularityfree control designs and model representations. Most commonly established methods, such as Euler angle-based techniques, are susceptible to kinematic and model representation singularities. Such concerns hold profound significance when it comes to guaranteeing the stability and efficacy of path

planning for UAVs.

Contributions: Motivated by the above mentioned gaps, we propose Quaternion-based Adaptive Backstepping Control (QABC) with its cascaded strategy, as an outer loop, to control the UAV translation components. Subsequently, we develop Quaternion-based Adaptive Sliding Mode Control (QASMC) for the attitude control system (inner loop). The QASMC is non-singular based on the proposed sliding surface. The control parameters are adaptively tuned to enhance the robustness and reduce chattering in control signals. Lyapunov theorem and Barbalet Lemma have been employed to guarantee asymptotic stability of the proposed approach. Finally, a comprehensive comparison has been simulated to validate the singularity-free and superior performance of the proposed control system.

Structure: The remaining of the paper is organized as follows: The preliminaries and notation are provided in Section II. Section III formulates the UAV model in quaternion representation. Section IV proposes the novel quaternion-based controllers. Section V presents the simulation results validating the performance of the proposed controller. Finally, Section VI summarizes the paper.
