# 1 Introduction

Cyber Physical Systems (CPSs)1 are characterized as the integration of concurrent embedded systems (the "cyber" components) , each executing a local control loop2, in a shared physical environment. Whilst the Internet of Things (IoT)3 describes distributed systems that are capable of internet communication, exposing data and control access points, CPSs exist at a higher level of abstraction. A system of systems is meaningfully described as a Cyber Physical System if and only if the collective behavior of its constituent systems exhibits properties of interest4, and each system can thus influence the others (either directly, or indirectly by affecting relevant properties). A CPS may be designed holistically, in a top-down approach5; or, incrementally, in a bottom-up approach6, depending on the properties of the physical environment dictated by the domain of application. For example, industrial automation environments7 may be designed completely top-down, starting from functional specifications which are iteratively refined into a concurrent system design. Networks of autonomous automobile systems8, on the other hand, must necessarily exhibit some degree of bottom-up instantiation, as autonomous vehicles enter and leave the macro system. Cyber-system to cyber-system communication is often prevalent (typically, on top of some IoT architecture), but not strictly necessary.

Because the cyber-components of a CPS may have substantial degrees of computational power, significant effect on the underlying shared physical system, and well-specified local goals, it is often desirable to formalize them as agents9. Thus, a natural next step is to formalize the macro behavior of a CPS as a game, either adversarial or collaborative. A significant body or work on distributed games exists: notably, the work of Gutierrez et al10–12, which has developed a temporal logic to reason about distributed games strategies.
