Because CPSs are real instances of distributed systems, and operate on top of communication networks and protocols without strict hard-real time guarantees, the ordering of events obeys Lamport’s rules13: they are not necessarily perceived in the same partial order by any frame of reference in the system (i.e., from the underlying physical system’s frame of reference, or by the internal frame of reference of each cyber system). Whilst causality can never be broken, a cyber system may, e.g., effect two actions at distinct times that affect the physical system in the opposite order than expected. Thus, the formalization of CPSs as games must account for relative orderings and possible consensus (or lack thereof) within the system.

Thus, this paper explores Cyber Physical Games: scenarios where cyber agents act rationally in pursuit of their own goals, in adversarial and/or collaborative contexts, in the presence (and knowledge of) unpredictable and heterogeneous (across frames of reference) ordering of events. Specifically, this paper offers the following contributions:

• We present a formal description of Cyber Physical Games, and how they arise from emergent properties of multi-agent Cyber Physical Systems. We further specify the behavior of collaborative and adversarial Cyber Physical Games using examples from the classical Iterated Boolean Game.   
• We show that there exist collaborative Cyber Physical Games where collaboration can diminish payoffs for both agents, if the non-deterministic properties of CPSs are not taken into account. Conversely, we show that employing knowledge

of such properties can improve payoffs for both agents.

• We show that adversarial strategies can (and should) take into account the non-deterministic properties of CPSs, as these greatly influence the evolution of adversarial games.   
• We show that multiple agents operating within a Cyber Physical System give rise to behavior that can be modeled as probabilistic finite state automata.   
• We introduce an algorithm for determining the most likely sequence of events (i.e., agents’ payoffs) in a game ruled by a probabilistic finite state automata, and show this algorithm can be used to predict system evolution. We further discuss how this model can be used in the future to guide the design of agents operating in CPSs.
