Tackling underactuation represents the first challenge. The majority of the UAVs are considered to be underactuated systems, which is a fundamental challenge for achieving robust and reliable missions [12]. From realistic and practical points of view, having control over all states is often impossible. Due to such a fundamental deficiency, stabilizing and achieving desired tasks become a complex challenge. Unfortunately, most of the above-listed control systems have been designed for fully-actuated UAVs, which is a fundamental challenge (e.g., an adaptive and super-twisting sliding mode controller [20]). However, such an assumption is not realistic nor practical for the majority of UAVs. In this regard, backstepping is an effective approach to address under-actuation issues. The main idea of backstepping is to generate an intermediary control input (virtual control), done in a cascaded way to tackle the limitation of underactuated control system [41]. The second challenge is avoiding singularity in each control design and attitude representation to ensure UAV stabilization. Although the above-listed techniques have attempted to avoid singularity and chattering, the designed controllers are based on Euler angles, which can lead to a significant issue in tracking and UAV stability [11]. Unit-quaternion can be an alternative method to represent attitude without singularity issues. In particular, Euler angles hold significant shortcomings, such as kinematic singularities and local representation [42]. Such an issue causes the controller to fail, resulting in undesired performance.
