# B. Related Work and Challenges

The control of UAVs presents notable limitations and challenges that arise from model representations and control design. Several control strategies and approaches have been investigated to tackle control system limitations, including singularity, stability, and chattering [11], [17]–[21]. For instance, [18] has proposed a conventional PID-based controller for attitude control. Also, in [22], state-dependent Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) control is suggested. In [21], nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) is developed to navigate and avoid obstacles for UAVs. In [11], [12], nonlinear cascaded vision-based controllers that relies on Lyapunov stability have been developed. In [23], multi-trajectory MPC is explored for UAV navigation while the environment is unknown. Authors investigate robust MPC to handle the mismatch uncertainty of the model or external disturbance. They designed the robust MPC by defining optimization problems with constraints in [23]–[25]. Although the MPC approach is an advanced control technique based on prediction and optimization, its implementation is not cost-effective in practical application. Moreover, the computational burden is the major disadvantage of NMPC. In addition, the above-listed controllers are not characterized with finite-time convergence. Among the mentioned control strategies, Sliding Mode Control (SMC) has gained significant attention regarding simplicity, accuracy, and handling uncertainties. In [26], [27], SMC is utilized to control UAV systems, robotics, navigation, and aircraft guidance. For example, in [26], the work developed a fractional order SMC for a quadrotor with varying load. The main point of the controller is to provide missile guidance in the presence of uncertainty [26]. In [27], the authors use adaptive SMC to control robot manipulators.
