SMC, despite its streamlined implementation and robustness, holds critical drawbacks such as (1) Chattering (2) Finitetime issues (3) Performance during reaching phase [28]–[31]. Chattering and oscillation caused by switching control action can be a critical issue in SMC. In practical flight applications, chattering can be considered one of the negative consequences of SMC because of its critical impact on the stability and robustness of an actuator system [28], [32]. Regarding the finite time issue, SMC may not guarantee convergence to desired states in the finite time since the sliding surface is designed in a linear form. In other words, while the system gradually reaches the sliding surface, the convergence time may even be unbounded depending on the specific initial conditions. Additionally, according to [29], [30], during the reaching phase, SMC may not be robust, and the system may be susceptible to instability in the presence of external disturbances. Moreover, convergence can be more complicated if the states are not close to equilibrium points [30]. To improve the performance of controllers, advanced sliding mode techniques have been developed to remove chattering, ensure finite time convergence, and enhance performance in [20], [33]–[40]. In [33], a fast terminal sliding mode control is designed to reduce the effect of chattering while the quadrotor is under uncertainties. The work in [34] implemented super twisting SMC to improve the performance of the fully-actuated UAVs in speed tracking with fast convergence. In [36], more efforts have been made to enhance stability, while uncertainty and external disturbances exist in UAVs. The fractional order non-singular TSMC with adaptation laws is used to overcome external disturbances and uncertainties for advanced layout carrier-based UAV [36]. [37] has explored dynamic SMC with adaptive control which is tolerable in the presence of faults and fixed-time disturbance. The work in [38] investigated the mixture of the nonlinear observer with SMC to overcome UAV system faults. The work in [39], [40] combines neural networks with FTSMC to design fault-tolerant control for UAVs.
