# 3.2.1 The Collaborative Iterated Boolean Game

Consider two cyber agents c0 and $c _ { 1 }$ , and an environment E with properties $\{ a , b \} \in V$ , where both agents can observe and affect the entire set of properties. However, only one variable update can occur at any point in time (i.e., agents cannot simultaneously update both variables under their control). This corresponds to environment update function

$$
\begin{array}{l} E _ {t _ {E}} = f (M _ {t _ {E} - 1} ^ {o}) \equiv \\ \{a, b \} _ {t _ {E}} = \left\{\left\{ \begin{array}{l} x, a \leftarrow m _ {c _ {0}} ^ {o} = x \mid m _ {c _ {1}} ^ {o} = x \\ a _ {t _ {E} - 1}, o t h e r w i s e \end{array} , \left\{ \begin{array}{l} x, b \leftarrow m _ {c _ {0}} ^ {o} = x \mid m _ {c _ {1}} ^ {o} = x \\ b _ {t _ {E} - 1}, o t h e r w i s e \end{array} \right. \right. \right\} t _ {E} - 1 \tag {1} \\ \end{array}
$$

In this case, the environment update function can be obviously derived by the agents’ control capabilities; notice this may not be true in the general case (e.g., when the environment has internal state update rules that are not immediately derivable from its inputs).

Agent c0’s goal is to satisfy an LTL formula φ , and agent $c _ { 1 } \mathrm { { ' } } s$ goal is to satisfy an LTL formula ψ . Informally, satisfying φ and ψ throughout system execution corresponds to positive evolution of the system: e.g., successful movement of autonomous vehicles along the desired paths. System execution traces that do not satisfy either formulae correspond to system execution that does not positively evolve the system. Agents’ strategies are to maximize the satisfaction of φ and ψ over time.
