of UAVs. Feed-forward and feedback control methods have been suggested to manage the linearized quadrotor model [9]. The work in [10] and [11] used conventional PID and LQR-based controllers to enhance stability. To improve robustness, optimal control methods, including $H _ { \infty }$ approaches, were utilized in [12]. However, it is noteworthy that such controllers were designed for the linearized model of UAVs, which might not accurately represent real-world scenarios. In this context, the work in [13] addressed the nonlinear model of UAVs and designed Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) in the presence of model mismatches. In the same spirit, Lyapunov-based nonlinear controllers using low-cost measurement units have been developed [1], [7]. The approaches in [14], [15] focused on the robustness aspect of controllers, utilizing advanced MPC techniques with optimal constraints. Despite MPC being an advanced method based on optimization and prediction, its main drawbacks in real-world applications are the computational burden and complexity. Among several suggested approaches, Sliding Mode Control (SMC) provides numerous advantages due to its inherent characteristics in handling model uncertainties, external disturbances, and nonlinearities [16]. SMC implementation not only guarantees stability but also reduces computational load. Designing a proper sliding surface with its control switch law is crucial in mitigating chattering, which is a significant reason for control failure.
