# 3.2.2 The Adversarial Iterated Boolean Game

Consider two cyber agents c0 and $c _ { 1 } ,$ and an environment E with properties $\{ a , b , c \} \in V$ , where both agents can observe all variables, but affect non-intersecting subsets of properties. Agent c0 has control over variables a and $^ { c , }$ and agent $c _ { 1 }$ has control over variable b. As in the collaborative case, only one variable update can occur at any point in time (i.e., agents cannot simultaneously update both variables under their control). This corresponds to environment update function

$$E _ {t _ {E}} = f (M _ {t _ {E} - 1} ^ {o}) \equiv
\{a, b, c \} _ {t _ {E}} = \left\{\left\{\begin{array}{l}x, a \leftarrow m _ {c _ {0}} ^ {o} = x\\a _ {t _ {E} - 1}, o t h e r w i s e\end{array}, \left\{\begin{array}{l}x, b \leftarrow m _ {c _ {1}} ^ {o} = x\\b _ {t _ {E} - 1}, o t h e r w i s e\end{array}, \left\{\begin{array}{l}x, c \leftarrow m _ {c _ {0}} ^ {o} = x\\c _ {t _ {E} - 1}, o t h e r w i s e\end{array}\right.\right.\right\} t _ {E} - 1 \right.\left. \right. \tag {2}
$$

As before, agent $c _ { 0 } \mathrm { { ^ { \circ } s } }$ goal is to satisfy an LTL formula φ , and agent $c _ { 1 } \mathrm { { ' } } s$ goal is to satisfy an LTL formula ψ. As in the collaborative case, an agent is deemed social if it’s aware of the other agent operating in the environment and, in the adversarial case, actively tries to minimize the other agent’s payoff, or unsocial otherwise. An agent is deemed optimistic if it assumes its messages are perceived by the environment in the same order as the agent issues them, and that all frames of reference are synchronized, and realistic otherwise. We assume each agent is aware of the other agent’s LTL formula.

In the collaborative case, we assumed a a sequence of agents’ messages could be partitioned uniformly, regardless of total sequence size. That assumption does not result in an unmanageable number of scenarios, since both agents were aligned in wanting to return to the same initial state after either a successful or unsuccessful run. In the depicted adversarial case, where agents have (potentially) several options to satisfy their formulae, that permutation assumption explodes the state space of the problem. Thus, let us begin the analysis with a simplification of the partitioning assumption.
