# 1.2 Contributions

In this study, we employ the recently introduced performance-barrier event-triggered control (P-ETC) [24] for control of a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs via PDE backstepping control. This novel approach offers significantly longer dwell-times between events compared to the recently devised dynamic event-triggered boundary control method for a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs [29, 30]. The contributions of this paper are threefold. Before delving into their specifics, it is essential to clarify the terminology, particularly the term performance-barrier taken from [24], which forms the crux of our novel approach.

The term performance-barrier is inspired by the safetycritical control literature [1, 2, 16, 35], although our context does not directly deal with safety. In our study, performance refers to the nominal decrease of the Lyapunov function, which serves as a measure of system convergence. On the other hand, barrier alludes to a boundary or threshold that the system should ideally not cross. Together, the performance-barrier terminology encapsulates the idea of comparing the Lyapunov function’s behavior to an acceptable nominal decrease, treating it as a boundary that should not be violated.

In [29, 30], the triggering mechanism forces a monotonic decrease in the Lyapunov function of the closed-loop system by ensuring its time derivative remains strictly negative. In terms of performance, this guarantees the Lyapunov function decreases faster than a specific exponentially decaying signal, which incorporates the initial data. We refer to this latter signal as the performance-barrier. Our hypothesis is that by allowing some flexibility in the Lyapunov function’s behavior—letting it deviate from a strict monotonic decrease but still respecting the performance-barrier—we can achieve longer dwell-times between events leading to less frequent control updates. This idea was carried out in the work of Ong et al. [24] for ODEs, which develops an event-triggered control design that integrates both the time derivative and the value of the Lyapunov function into the triggering criterion.
