# 4 Stochastic Strategies for Cyber Physical Games’ Payoff

Analyzing payoffs, for a system with a small number of states, can be done by listing all run permutations and determine average payoff for each agent. This, of course, does not scale; the general case is more challenging, and requires realizing that the problem must be formulated as determining the probabilities that certain sequences of state transition occur. Notice that, $\mathrm { e . g . }$ , the transition from state {abc} to state {abc} might happen because:

• At state $\{ { \overline { { a } } } { \overline { { b } } } { \overline { { c } } } \} , c _ { 0 }$ issues action $c  m _ { c _ { 0 } } ^ { o } = \top$ and $c _ { 1 }$ issues action $b \gets m _ { c _ { 1 } } ^ { o } = \bot$ , both interpreted by the environment simultaneously.   
• At state $\{ { \overline { { a } } } { \overline { { b } } } { \overline { { c } } } \} , c _ { 0 }$ issues action $c  m _ { c _ { 0 } } ^ { o } = \top$ and $c _ { 1 }$ issues action $b \gets m _ { c _ { 1 } } ^ { o } = \top$ , but the environment interprets $c _ { 0 } \mathrm { { ' s } }$ action first.   
• At state $\{ { \overline { { a } } } b { \overline { { a } } } \} , c _ { 0 }$ issues action $c  m _ { c _ { 0 } } ^ { o } = \top$ and $c _ { 1 }$ issues action $b \gets m _ { c _ { 1 } } ^ { o } = \bot$ , but the environment interprets $c _ { 1 } \mathrm { { ' } } \mathrm { { s } }$ action first.   
• Etc.

Thus, rather than look at state transitions, we must look at the probabilities of transition sequences, in function of the environment’s interpretation of each message sequence, and of agents’ strategies. Notice that, because there is dependence on sequence, rather than just current state, it is not possible to perfectly model this behavior as a Markov $\mathrm { C h a i n } ^ { 2 5 }$ , which assumes unique dependence on just current state; rather, the problem is intractable (specifically, it is NP-hard in the general case26).
