# 1.1 The state of the Art

Event-triggered control (ETC) introduces an alternative to typical sampled-data control that updates the control input based on a fixed periodic or aperiodic sampling schedule. Distinctively, ETC updates the control input only after the occurrence of certain events generated by an appropriate triggering mechanism that depends on system states [13]. As such, ETC can be construed as a form of sampled-data control that seamlessly integrates feedback into control update processes. By leveraging the power of feedback, ETC

⋆ A preliminary version of this work appears in [28]. The work of B. Rathnayake and M. Diagne was funded by the NSF CAREER Award CMMI-2302030 and the NSF grant CMMI-2222250. The work of J. Cortes was funded by AFOSR Award FA9550-23-1- ´ 0740. The work of M. Krstic was funded by the NSF grant ECCS-2151525 and the AFOSR grant FA9550-23-1-0535.

⋆⋆Corresponding author B. Rathnayake Tel. +1(518)5965193.

Email addresses: brm222@ucsd.edu (Bhathiya Rathnayake), mdiagne@ucsd.edu (Mamadou Diagne), cortes@ucsd.edu (Jorge Cortes), krstic@ucsd.edu (Miroslav Krstic).

allows control input to be updated only when necessary, reducing control updates, while still maintaining a satisfactory closed-loop system performance.

Generally, ETC is built on two primary elements: a feedback control law, which ensures desired closed-loop system properties, and an event-triggering mechanism, which determines when control input should be updated. To function effectively, ETC must stave off Zeno behavior—the scenario of occurrence of an infinite number of control updates within a finite time span. This is usually achieved via careful design of the event triggering mechanism, guaranteeing a minimum dwell-time i.e., a uniform positive lower bound between two consecutive events. In the recent years, an array of impressive results related to ETC have been presented for systems governed by both linear and nonlinear ODEs [10, 13, 20, 23, 34, 35]. This has spurred exploration into ETC strategies for systems described by PDEs [6–8, 15, 18, 26, 29, 30, 39, 40]. Of particular relevance to our current study are [29] and [30], which propose eventtriggered boundary control strategies for a class of reactiondiffusion PDEs, using dynamic event-triggers under anticollocated and collocated boundary sensing and actuation.
