# 3.2 Types of Cyber Physical Games

The goals of agents in CPSs are more likely to be concerned with the evolution of the state of the environment, rather than with a specific state. For example, in the case of networks of autonomous automobile systems, the goal is the efficient and safe conclusion of vehicles’ routes (potentially, until they leave the environment), rather than any specific configuration of vehicles (albeit these may constitute meaningful sub-goals). Thus, iterated, infinite games such as Iterated Boolean Games20 are reasonable models to reason about the evolution of CPSs. Unlike traditional turn-based runs, agents in a CPS may issue actions at any time. A game is said to be collaborative if agents’ goals are not in contradiction (in these cases, cooperation may be beneficial, but this is not a necessary condition). A game is said to be adversarial if agents’ goals are in contradiction.

A (traditional, non-iterative) Boolean game21 is one where there exists a finite set of propositional variables, typically denoted $V = \{ a , b , c , \ldots \}$ , with $L _ { V }$ denoting the propositional language that is built from V , ⊤ (true), ⊥ (false), and the typical logical operators. Each agent controls a non-intersecting subset of $V ,$ and their goal is to satisfy a propositional formula of $L _ { V }$ , typically denoted $\phi$ or ψ. In Iterated Boolean Games, agents’ goals are instead given by formulae of Linear Temporal Logic $\mathrm { \bar { ( L T L ) } } ^ { 2 2 }$ . LTL extends propositional language with the temporal operators X (next), F (finally), G (globally), U (until), R (release), W (weak until), and M (strong release). Furthermore , → denotes a sequence from one temporal state to another, sometime in the future, but not necessarily the next one. An agent’s strategy is its decision function, which performs a given available action, based on current and past input, to attempt to satisfy its goal. Notice that, unlike the scenarios explored $\mathrm { i n } ^ { \overline { { 2 } } 0 }$ , in Cyber Physical Games an agent’s strategy does not induce a unique run, because of the non-deterministic properties of CPSs.
