Unsocial, optimistic agents believe they are alone in operating in the environment, and assume their actions are immediate and permanent;
i.e., they do not conceive of environment state change without performing an action (leading to potential mismatch between actual state and their belief of state).
An agent attempts to satisfy its formula, prioritizing the graph sub-run that allows it to do so most quickly.
Unsocial but realistic agents, are aware the environment may not respond to their actions responsively;
thus, they probe for action effect prior to issuing the next action in a sequence.
Social, optimistic agents are aware of the competition.
Thus, they attempt to chart the path that maximizes the satisfaction of their formula, whilst minimizing the satisfaction of the adversary’s formula.
Because they conceive of a responsive environment, they assume an action issued at a given moment in time will have effect immediately, synchronously with the adversary’s action, such that the total effect on the environment is the sum of both actions (i.e., as in a classical concurrent game).
Traditional minimaxing strategies cannot be applied in the absence of terminal game states23;
interested readers may consult Devroye et $\mathrm { a l } ^ { 2 4 }$ for meaningful strategies in these scenarios.
Since the study of strategy optimality is beyond the scope of this paper, we employ a simple strategy that, whilst not necessarily optimal, suffices to illustrate the main points: each agent assumes its adversary will attempt to either carry out a formula satisfaction sequence, if it’s within a formula path state, or reach the nearest root state for a formula satisfaction sequence otherwise.
Under that assumption, each agent attempt to steer the state using the same reasoning for its own formula satisfaction (both agents look only one state in the future).
Social but realistic agents, employing the same strategic principles as in the previous case, can now take advantage of the non-deterministic behavior of CPSs to probabilistically attempt to satisfy their formula in situations that would be impossible in a deterministic concurrent game.
With knowledge that it is possible their actions are effected before the adversary’s action (regardless of issue order), or vice-versa, agents can now employ a "best case" strategy that will satisfy their formula if the right action is executed first.

Again, we are assuming agents plan one state into the future, and assume that the order of actions issued by both agents at the same time step is random, but the ordering of message sequences per agent is preserved.
