# B. An Autonomic Supervisor

The architecture supports an autonomic supervisor with smart functionalities, such as control loop self-configuration. The supervisor maintains a knowledge base with descriptions and rules enabling autonomic capabilities. An industrial domain is as an ontology schema allowing for semantic descriptions of industrial processes. The industrial domain includes properties, the estimator model, physical component classes, and an agent repository. It also links physical components and their interconnections with estimator functions and properties. This association defines a translation function that constructs a state estimation graph, which relates states as inputs and outputs of the estimator functions. The state estimation graph guides the deployment of sensor and estimator agents to compute controller input, and thus configure the control loop.

The autonomic supervisor represents the industrial process as a knowledge graph. This graph captures the physical components, their interconnections, and the hardware components and their capabilities to measure states or control actuators.

A semantic reasoning engine module analyses an industrial process description to generate a control loop configuration. Given a controller agent with its input state and the actuator to control, the engine supports the following functionalities: i) translates the industrial knowledge graph into a state estimation graph; ii) traverses the state estimation graph to identify all estimation trees containing the information needed to estimate the controller’s input state. iii) identifies the estimator and sensor agents associated with the estimation tree; and iv) utilises behavioural type theory to compose a deadlock-free and live control loop configuration description.

The control loop configuration deployment module inputs the semantic description of the control loop configuration produced by the semantic reasoning engine and deploys the corresponding agents. This process involves generating agent code, such as control and estimation logic, along with communication operations. Moreover, it allocates network resources by instructing hardware assets to deploy the generated agents.

The framework includes an event manager module that monitors the operation of the industrial process and detects changes. Upon detecting an event, the event manager updates the supervisor knowledge base by performing removal or addition transactions. If a control system disruption is detected, the event manager invokes the semantic reasoning engine to determine a new control loop configuration.
