# 4.2 Lyapunov-Based Control

Lyapunov-based control is a nonlinear control method that depends on the Lyapunov stability theorem [32]. In this study, the most commonly used sum of squares function was used as the Lyapunov function. The Lyapunov-based controller targets to control the position of the quadrotor directly. In this approach, $x = 0$ is defined as the equilibrium point. D is determined as a compact space o ${ \bf \dot { \boldsymbol { f } } } ( 0 )$ in $\mathbf { R } ^ { \mathrm { n } }$ real coordinate space. The continuous Lyapunov function $V \colon D \to R ^ { + }$ , which satisfies requirements in Eqs. (28) and (29), is defined.

$$V (0) = 0, V (x) > 0 \text { in } D, x \neq 0 \tag {28}\dot {V} (x) \leq 0 \text { in } D \tag {29}$$

The equilibrium point is asymptotically stable in D under $\dot { V } \left( x \right) < 0$ in $D , x \neq 0$ conditions. Then, a part that contains stabilization angles and their derivates is defined as the desired attitude at the equilibrium point for the attitude control. In this state, $x = ( \varphi _ { d } , 0 , \theta _ { d } , 0 , \psi _ { d } , 0 )$ , where $\varphi _ { d } , \theta _ { d } .$ , and $\psi _ { d } ,$ , are defined as desired roll, pitch, and yaw angles. Since angular velocities will be zero at the stabilization point, their derivatives will also be zero. Positive defined Lyapunov function at the desired attitude is described in Eq. (30).

$$V (x) = \frac {1}{2} \left[ \dot {\varphi} ^ {2} + (\varphi - \varphi_ {d}) ^ {2} + \dot {\theta} ^ {2} + (\theta - \theta_ {d}) ^ {2} + \dot {\psi} ^ {2} + (\psi - \psi_ {d}) ^ {2} \right] \tag {30}$$

Eq. (31) describes the derivative of $V ( x )$ .

$$\dot {V} (x) = \left[ \left(\varphi - \varphi_ {d}\right) \dot {\varphi} + \ddot {\varphi} \dot {\varphi} + \left(\theta - \theta_ {d}\right) \dot {\theta} + \ddot {\theta} \dot {\theta} + \left(\psi - \psi_ {d}\right) \dot {\psi} + \ddot {\psi} \dot {\psi} \right] \tag {31}$$

Equations of motion defined in Eqs. (17–22) can be simplified under perfect cross configuration VTOL $( I _ { x } = I _ { y } )$ condition when the quadrotor close to the equilibrium point $( w _ { r } = 0 , \dot { \psi } = 0 , \dot { \theta } = 0$ , $\dot { \varphi } = 0 )$ and Eq. (32) is obtained.

$$\dot {V} (x) = \left(\varphi - \varphi_ {d}\right) \dot {\varphi} + \dot {\varphi} \frac {l}{I _ {x}} U _ {2} + \left(\theta - \theta_ {d}\right) \dot {\theta} + \dot {\theta} \frac {l}{I _ {y}} U _ {3} + \left(\psi - \psi_ {d}\right) \dot {\psi} + \dot {\psi} \frac {l}{I _ {z}} U _ {4} \tag {32}$$
