# A. Industrial processes and cyber-physical systems

Fig. 1 depicts the architecture for autonomic industrial processes. The industrial process, P , is an interconnected network of physical components, such as a WDN. A state vector, $X = [ x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } ]$ , characterises the industrial process. Each state $x _ { i } .$ , for $1 \leq i \leq n ,$ quantifies a property π ∈ Π. States are measured at specific sensing points within the industrial process. A subset of physical components, called actuators, input a signal vector, $W = [ w _ { 1 } , \dots , w _ { m } ] .$ , to control the state of the industrial process. A state can be estimated using an estimator function, denoted by $\phi ,$ which takes a vector of, measured or estimated, states as input. The collection of estimator functions constitutes the estimation model, Φ.

The signal vector is generated by a network of cyberphysical components, depicted by dashed-lined white boxes in Fig. 1. These components include devices such as PLCs, edge computing devices, servers, etc.

Cyber-physical components, due to their computational and networking capabilities, deploy multiple software agents, represented in Fig. 1 by circle, square, and rhombus shapes. These agents interact to produce the actuator signal vector W .

Hardware components with sensing capabilities, such as sensor devices, are installed at sensing points to measure physical states. These devices deploy sensor agents, which measure, digitise, and communicate state information within the network. Similarly, other CPS devices connect to actuators and deploy controller agents. Controller agents take an input state vector Xˆ , which can be either measured or estimated, and generate a signal vector W , sent to the actuators via the underlying hardware. Additionally, a set of estimator agents implements the estimation model.

A control loop configuration deploys distributed interacting agents across the CPS network. The agents produce and communicate a signal vector to the industrial process actuators. These interactions rely on message-passing communication, implemented using network protocols, such as MQTT.
