# 2 Related Work

Researchers have worked on different techniques to control the altitude and attitude of the quadrotor.
This section discusses the recent related studies on controlling the quadrotor.
MA et al.
focused on particle swarm optimization tuned trajectory tracking control for a quadrotor based on the Lyapunov method under the Gaussian white noise effect [10].
Kumar et al.
used the Lyapunov stability analysis and developed a novel dynamic recurrent functional link neural network for the identification of nonlinear systems [11].
Kumar et al.
conducted a comparative study of neural networks for the control of nonlinear dynamical systems using Lyapunov stability-based adaptive learning rates [12].
Cheded et al.
developed a novel, robust Kalman filter-based controller for the trajectory tracking of a quadrotor under a Gaussian zero mean white noise [13].
Zhao et al.
focused on the reference tracking of a quadrotor under white noise.
They have developed an active disturbance rejection switching control algorithm against white noise.
Their algorithm could reach stable control of the quadrotor UAV in the white noise range of 0.1 dB [14].
Guerrero-Sánchez et al.
developed an observer-based controller for a quadrotor.
Their designed observer estimates the state from noisy output measurements.
They used a Gaussian noise with a variance of 0.001 as the test signal [15].
Mahfouz et al.
focused on the control of a four-rotor UAV under white Gaussian noise.
They compared the performances of different PID control techniques under white Gaussian noise [16].
Wang et al.
designed a PD controller to control the attitude of the quadrotor.
They used a white Gaussian noise with zero mean and one variance to test the robustness of the controller [17].
Hou et al.
proposed a nonsingular terminal sliding mode controller for a quadrotor and tested their proposed sliding mode controller under Gaussian white noise and model uncertainties [18].
Xu et al.
focused on the path-following control of a quadrotor under Gaussian noise.
They used the Lyapunov theorem while designing the controller [19].
Cen et al.
proposed a Gaussian process regression-based control technique for a quadrotor UAV.
They performed trajectory tracking simulations of the quadrotor under measurement noise and compared their proposed controller with an integral backstepping controller [20].
Labbadi et al.
