Graph $\textit { G } = \langle V , E \rangle$ , called industrial process knowledge graph, consists of a set of vertices $v _ { 1 } , v _ { 2 } , \cdots \in \mathrm { ~ } V$ and a set of edges $E \subseteq V \times V$ . Set V is partitioned into: i) physical components, $V ^ { c . } ;$ and ii) sensing points, S , where $s , s _ { 1 } , \cdots \in S$ . Additionally, the set of actuators, A, forms a subset of the physical components, i.e., $A \subseteq V ^ { c }$ . Each physical component is associated with a physical component class, and each sensing point with a sensing point class.

Set H , with $h _ { 1 } , h _ { 2 } \cdots \in H$ , is the set of CPS components. Moreover, relation $\delta \subseteq ( S \cup A ) \times H$ , relates sensing points and actuators with hardware components. For example, it associates a sensing point with a sensor device.

The state estimation translation function, $\begin{array} { r l r } { \tau } & { { } : } & { \{ G \} \ : } \end{array}$ $\forall G \} \  \ \{ \mathsf { G } : \forall G \}$ translates an industrial process graph into a state estimation graph, ${ \sf G } = \langle { \sf V } , { \sf E } \rangle$ . This graph captures information on measuring or estimating states following the state estimation model. Set V, with $v _ { 1 } , v _ { 2 } , \dotsc ~ \in$ V, is partitioned into: the set of state nodes, Vs = $\{ v , \pi \mid v \in V$ , v instance of $\langle k , \mathsf { p r } , f \rangle , \pi \in \mathsf { \Gamma } \mathsf { p r } \}$ ; the set of estimator nodes, denoted as $\begin{array} { r c l c r c l } { { \textsf { V } ^ { g } } } & { { = } } & { { \{ v . \phi } }  & { { | } } & { { v } } & { { \in } } \end{array}$ V , v instance of $\langle k , \mathsf { p r } , f \rangle , \phi \ \in \ f \}$ ; and the set of sensing points, S . Set $\mathsf { E } \subseteq \mathsf { V } \times \mathsf { V }$ is the set of edges.

In particular, set Vg corresponds to the estimator attributes of the industrial process graph and set $\vee ^ { s }$ , derives from the property attributes, constructing the states of the industrial process graph. Moreover, set E is constructed by: i) translating each physical component, $v \in V .$ , into a state estimation subgraph; ii) using each edge $( v _ { 1 } , v _ { 2 } ) ~ \in ~ E$ to interlink these subgraphs, forming a comprehensive state estimation graph. The state estimation graph links states with estimators establishing state estimation relationships, and links states with sensing points establishing state measurement relationships.
