# III. DERIVATION OF FEASIBLY CONTROLLABLE METRIC

Consider a general non-linear system described by

$$\dot {\mathbf {x}} = f (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {u}) \tag {5}$$

where $\mathbf { x } \in \mathbb { X } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ denotes the system states and $\mathbf { u } \in \mathbb { U } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ describes the inputs of the system.

The difference of eq. (5) between two consecutive samples, k and $k + 1$ , may be approximated (assuming, f (x, u) is smooth and differentiable) through

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {\mathbf {x}} _ {k + 1} - \dot {\mathbf {x}} _ {k} = \frac {\delta f}{\delta \mathbf {x}} \cdot \left(\mathbf {x} _ {k + 1} - \mathbf {x} _ {k}\right) + \frac {\delta f}{\delta \mathbf {u}} \cdot \left(\mathbf {u} _ {k + 1} - \mathbf {u} _ {k}\right) \tag {6} \\ \rightarrow d \dot {\mathbf {x}} = \frac {\partial f}{\delta \mathbf {x}} d \mathbf {x} + \frac {\partial f}{\delta \mathbf {u}} d \mathbf {u} \\ \end{array}
$$

Taking the time derivative of this difference yields

$$\frac {1}{d t} \cdot (d \dot {\mathbf {x}}) = \frac {1}{d t} \cdot \left(\frac {\delta f}{\delta \mathbf {x}} d \mathbf {x} + \frac {\delta f}{\delta \mathbf {u}} d \mathbf {u}\right) \tag {7}\rightarrow \ddot {\mathbf {x}} = \frac {\delta f}{\delta \mathbf {x}} \dot {\mathbf {x}} + \frac {\delta f}{\delta \mathbf {u}} \dot {\mathbf {u}}$$

Equation (6) is only truly valid if dx and du are small. For dynamic systems such as the quadrotor, this holds if the time increment, dt, is sufficiently small2. Hence, taking the time derivative is an elegant way to linearize the system - with respect to its derivative - to arrive at the so-called differential form (or, alternatively, the velocity form [29]):

$$\ddot {\mathbf {x}} = A \dot {\mathbf {x}} + B \dot {\mathbf {u}} \tag {8}$$

Equation (8) gives an exact representation of the non-linear system at the point (x, u). In other words, it may be considered a linear parameter varying (LPV) model, scheduled by the states and inputs. For the fortunate cases where $f ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { u } )$ is known (and differentiable), relations for A and B may be exactly derived. Even if $f ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { u } )$ is known, linearization is nonetheless useful as it facilitates the application of powerful and well-studied linear analysis tools. While not strictly
