# 4.3 Backstepping Control

The proposed backstepping control method is an adaptive control approach used in nonlinear systems. This control method depends on a recursive design that links the selection of a Lyapunov function with a feedback control system and provides strict feedback to obtain asymptotic stability. In this research, Lyapunov’s direct method is combined with principles of adaptive control. First, the tracking error $z _ { 1 }$ is defined in Eq. (41).

$$z _ {1} = \varphi_ {d} - \varphi \tag {41}$$

The Lyapunov function and its time derivative for the $z _ { 1 }$ variable are given in Eqs. (42) and (43).

$$V \left(z _ {1}\right) = \frac {1}{2} z _ {1} ^ {2} \tag {42}\dot {V} \left(z _ {1}\right) = z _ {1} \left(\dot {\varphi} _ {d} - \dot {\varphi}\right) \tag {43}$$

Since the derivative of the Lyapunov function should be negative semi-definite, the new virtual control input $\dot { \varphi }$ is defined to stabilize $z _ { 1 }$ as in Eq. (44).

$$\dot {\varphi} = \dot {\varphi} _ {d} + a _ {1} z _ {1} \tag {44}$$

$a _ { 1 }$ should be a positive coefficient to provide negative semi-definitiveness. When this virtual control input is substituted in Eq. (43), the equation in Eq. (45) is obtained.

$$\dot {V} \left(z _ {1}\right) = - a _ {1} z _ {1} ^ {2} \tag {45}$$

Another change of variable is represented in Eq. (46).

$$z _ {2} = \dot {\varphi} - \dot {\phi} _ {d} - a _ {1} z _ {1} \tag {46}$$

After the changes, the augmented Lyapunov function can be written as in Eq. (47).

$$V \left(z _ {1}, z _ {2}\right) = \frac {1}{2} z _ {1} ^ {2} + \frac {1}{2} z _ {2} ^ {2} \tag {47}$$

Derivative of the Lyapunov function in Eq. (47) could be written as in $\operatorname { E q } .$ . (48).

$$\dot {V} \left(z _ {1}, z _ {2}\right) = - a _ {1} z _ {1} ^ {2} - z _ {1} z _ {2} + z _ {2} \ddot {\varphi} - z _ {2} \left(\ddot {\varphi} _ {d} - a _ {1} \left(z _ {2} + a _ {1} z _ {1}\right)\right) \tag {48}$$

According to Eq. (20), the $\ddot { \varphi }$ variable can be rewritten in Eq. (49).

$$\ddot {\varphi} = \dot {\psi} \dot {\theta} a _ {1} + a _ {2} \dot {\theta} w _ {r} + \frac {l}{I _ {x}} U _ {2} \tag {49}$$

$U _ { 2 }$ control input is defined as in Eq. (50) under $\ddot { \varphi } = 0 , \ddot { \varphi } = 0 , \ddot { \theta } _ { d } = 0$ , and $\dot { V } ( z _ { 1 } , z _ { 2 } ) < 0$ conditions.

$$U _ {2} = \frac {I _ {x}}{l} \left(z _ {1} - a _ {1} \dot {\theta} \dot {\psi} - a _ {2} \dot {\theta} w _ {r} - a _ {1} \left(z _ {2} + a _ {1} z _ {1}\right) - a _ {2} z _ {2}\right) \tag {50}$$
