# B. Loss-of-control Detection in Simulation

Using the simulator, two experiments are conducted wherein the quadrotor is assigned a simple position tracking task. In the first experiment, the quadrotor is in its nominal configuration and experiences no actuator faults. In this scenario, the proposed metrics are not expected to detect LOC. Conversely, in the second experiment, one of the rotors is capped at 0% thrust at $t = 5 . 2 \mathrm { s }$ , representing the complete loss of a single rotor. Here, the proposed metrics are expected to be able to detect LOC. In this experiment, the metrics are not explicitly made aware of the fault (i.e. eq. (13) assumes that all rotors are still fully operational).

TABLE IPHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF THE SIMULATED QUADROTOR

<table><tr><td>Mass (incl. batteries), g</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>433</td></tr><tr><td>Diagonal hub-to-hub diameter, mm</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>217</td></tr><tr><td>Propeller diameter, mm</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>76.5</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">Moment of inertia, kg·m2</td><td rowspan="3">10-3·</td><td>0.865</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>0</td><td>1.07</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>1.71</td></tr><tr><td>Actuator time constant, Hz</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>60</td></tr></table>

In both experiments, the current control effectiveness matrix is updated through $B _ { k + 1 } = B _ { k } M$ as described in section III. Here, a moving window of 0.2s is used to determine the values of M where, nominally, $M = I .$ Recall that B (and thus M) are diagonal as the quadrotor control scheme employed here relies on the (orthogonal) control moments as the input vector. Furthermore, the majority voting window duration for the FCMW is also set to 0.2s to mirror M.

Figure 1 depicts the position tracking trajectory of the quadrotor in its nominal configuration (i.e. no actuator faults). As expected, $r a n k ( C ) = 3$ and both the $F C M [ k ] = 1$ and $F C M W = 1$ suggesting that the quadrotor remains in control for the duration of the flight.
