$$\forall i \in I, S, \mathfrak {p}: T _ {i}, \mathfrak {q}: T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \vdash G _ {i}.$$

5) Finally, the recursive global type is composed by a local configuration of recursive local types, all prefixed with the same local loop variable.

The restrictions on the choice rule ensure the liveness property for local configurations.

Theorem A.2. $I f S \vdash G$ , then S is live.

Proof. The proof is done by induction on the definition of ⊢.

• Base Case: The base case,

$$\left\{\mathrm{p} _ {\mathrm{i}}: \text { end } \mid i \in I \right\} \vdash \text { end }$$

is straightforward. For local configurations $S \ = \ \{ { \mathsf { p } } _ { \mathrm { { i } } } \ :$ end $\mid i \in I \}$ , S is live.

• Inductive Hypothesis: Assume that if

$$S \vdash G$$

then S is live.

• Inductive Step: There are three cases:

a) The case for the choice global protocol:

$$\frac {\forall \in I , S , \mathsf {p} : T _ {i} , \mathsf {q} : T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \vdash G _ {i}}{S , \mathsf {p} : \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {q} _ {!} \mathsf {U} _ {i} . T _ {i} , \mathsf {q} : \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {p} _ {?} \mathsf {U} _ {i} . T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \vdash \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {p} \to \mathsf {q} : \mathsf {U} _ {i} . G _ {i}}$$

There are two sub-cases:

i) Observe that for all $i \in I$

$$
\begin{array}{l l} & S, \mathsf {p}: \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {q} _ {!} \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}. T _ {i}, \mathsf {q}: \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {p}? \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}. T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \\ \stackrel {{\mathsf {p} \to \mathsf {q}: \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}}} {{\longrightarrow}} & S, \mathsf {p}: T _ {i}, \mathsf {q}: T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \end{array}
$$

By the induction hypothesis, S, p: Ti, q: $T _ { i } ^ { \prime }$ is live. ii) Observe that

$$
\begin{array}{l l} & S, \mathsf {p}: \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {q} _ {!} \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}. T _ {i}, \mathsf {q}: \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {p}? \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}. T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \\ \stackrel {{\mathsf {r} _ {1} \to \mathsf {r} _ {2}: \mathsf {U}}} {{\longrightarrow}} & S ^ {\prime}, \mathsf {p}: \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {q} _ {!} \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}. T _ {i}, \mathsf {q}: \sum_ {i \in I} \mathsf {p}? \mathsf {U} _ {\mathsf {i}}. T _ {i} ^ {\prime} \end{array}
$$

with S r1r2:U−→ $S \stackrel { \mathsf { r } _ { 1 }  \mathsf { r } _ { 2 } ; \mathsf { U } } { \longrightarrow } S ^ { \prime } .$ . By the inductive hypothesis it holds that for all $i \in I ,$ ,
