The key, then, is to determine if such a corrective command is possible, and if not, we consider the system to be in a state of instantaneous LOC. Indeed, the allowable periods of LOC may differ between systems and operating conditions. Therefore, a majority voting window - tied to a specified tolerable duration of sustained LOC - may be employed to identify periods of LOC. These may be related to the timeto-recovery, or backward reachable set, of the system.

An actuator model may be used to probe the feasibility of a particular command. We here rely on a first order actuator model of the quadrotor, however, other (potentially nonlinear) actuator models are compatible with the proposed approach so long as the maximum actuator effort can be found at each time step. The maximum possible change in the control moments prescribed by the first order motor model is given by

$$\Delta \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{MAX}} = d t \cdot \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {4} \frac {1}{\tau} \left(\omega_ {\mathrm{MAX}} - \omega_ {i}\right) \tag {13}$$

where dt denotes the time step, τ the actuator time constant (which can be estimated from flight data), and $\omega _ { M A X }$ is the lower/upper saturation limits of the rotor. Whether the lower or upper limit should be used depends on the direction of necessary change in rotor speed in order to correct for e.

The quadrotor is considered to be in a state of LOC if $\Delta \mathbf { u } _ { \mathbf { M A X } } < \Delta \mathbf { u } _ { \mathbf { c } } ,$ even when eq. (9) maintains full row rank. We define the Feasibly Controllable Metric (FCM), at an instant, k, to be

$$
F C M [ k ] = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0 & \text { if } \Delta \mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {M A X}} [ k ] <   \Delta \mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {c}} [ k ] \text { or } \operatorname{rank} (\mathbf {C} [ k ]) <   n \\ 1 & \text { otherwise } \end{array} \right. \tag {14}
$$

This may be extended to a majority voting window by taking the average of $F C M [ k ]$ across MVW samples to yield the windowed FCM:

$$
F C M W = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0 & \text { if } \frac {1}{M V W} \sum_ {i = k - M V W} ^ {k} F C M [ i ] <   0. 5 \\ 1 & \text { otherwise } \end{array} \right. \tag {15}
$$
