However, unless B (and equivalently, A if available) is estimated online, the identified models typically refer to the nominal system and thus may not account for time-varying dynamics or actuator faults. Indeed, the ability of a system to maintain control depends on its current dynamics and actuator capabilities. We therefore suggest that A and B be locally updated in some capacity. The cross-correlation4, $M \in ( 0 , 1 ]$ , between dx˙ and A · dx + B · du may be used as an indicator of the discrepancy between the nominal and current systems: any changes in the state derivative should be explainable by a corresponding change in the (one-step behind) inputs. The nominal control effectiveness may then be modified through a product with M (i.e. $B _ { k + 1 } = B _ { k } M )$ where M is estimated over a moving window. Other methods for obtaining M, such as Recursive Least Squares, may also be used for better estimates.

The core principle behind the proposed metric is that, under perfect conditions, changes in the state derivative are

3Occasionally, however, these aggressive manoeuvres can lead to LOC, suggesting that saturation may play a crucial role in LOC detection.   
4For the quadrotor, M < 0 should not occur as the control effectiveness associated with the control moments cannot switch. Moreover, $M = 0$ is avoided as this leads to a singular B.

fully explainable by the model. Thus,

$$d \dot {\mathbf {x}} - A \cdot d \mathbf {x} - B \cdot (\mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k} + 1} - \mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k}}) = 0 \tag {10}$$

However, errors - be these from model misspecification, a change in dynamics, or faults - will likely be observed. These should be accommodated by an additional control effort as shown in eq. (11). Note that e here refers to the error between measurements of the state derivative and predictions from the (difference) model (eq. (6)), and not the tracking error.

$$d \dot {\mathbf {x}} - A \cdot d \mathbf {x} - B \cdot \left(\mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k} + 1} - \mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k}} + \Delta \mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {c}}\right) = \mathbf {e} \tag {11}$$

Substituting eq. (10) into eq. (11) and solving for the necessary corrective control action yields

$$\Delta \mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {c}} = B ^ {- 1} \mathbf {e} \tag {12}$$
