# A. The WDN industrial domain

The following code defines a part of the WDN domain:

```txt
wdn := domain {
    property flow, head, tank_shape, link_shape,
    signal {ON, OFF}

model tank_mass, junction_mass, demand_mass, link_energy

physical junction(head, flow, junction_mass):
    flow -> junction_mass, junction_mass -> flow

physical demand(head, flow, demand_mass):
    flow -> demand_mass, demand_mass -> flow

physical pipe(link_shape, flow, link_energy):
    link_shape -> link_energy, link_energy -> flow

physical tank (tank_shape, head, tank_mass):
    tank_shape -> tank_mass, tank_mass -> head

actuator pump(link_shape, flow, link_energy):
    link_shape -> link_energy, link_energy -> flow

translation pipe -> junction:
    pipe.flow -> junction.junction_mass, 
```

```txt
junction.junction_mass -> pipe.flow,
junction.head->pipe.link_energy

translation pipe -> tank :
pipe.flow -> tank.tank_mass,
tank.head -> pipe.link_energy

translation pump -> junction :
pump.flow -> junction.junction_mass,
junction.junction_mass -> pump.flow,
junction.head->pump.link_energy
... 
```

Properties include flow, head, tank\_shape, and link\_shape, as well as an enumeration, signal with ON and OFF labels, for controlling the pump actuator. The estimator model includes the tank\_mass, junction\_mass, demand\_mass, and link\_energy. There are four physical component classes: junction, demand, pipe, and tank including their property and estimator attributes. It also defines actuator class pump. Each class defines a part of the translation function, establishing state and estimator relations. For example, class pipe, defines link\_shape state as an input to the estimator link\_energy and state flow as an output. The rest of the domain definitions are rules defining the translation function. Each rule takes a connection between two classes and defines corresponding connections between states and estimators, creating the state estimation graph of an industrial process. Fig. 4 defines a class diagram and an agent repository for the wdn domain. It defines and maps agents for the tank\_mass, junction\_mass, and link\_energy model estimators, as well as agents for the head and flow sensors. A controller and a pump actuator agent are also defined. Appendix C gives the complete WDN domain definition.
