# I. INTRODUCTION

Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) [1] drives Industry 4.0 by optimising key performance indicators through the addition, update, or removal of assets within the industrial ecosystem, often leading to the reconfiguration of the underlying Cyber-Physical System (CPS). Moreover, as an industrial process scales in terms of size and capabilities, there is an increased possibility for events that disrupt its normal operation to occur (e.g., component failures, or cyber-attacks), requiring reconfiguration efforts [2]. The reconfiguration of an industrial system is a knowledge-intensive, time-consuming, and errorprone task. It requires expertise in the industrial process, control system engineering, IT networking, and understanding of CPS and systems security. A bigger challenge is when this reconfiguration should occur automatically without human intervention while ensuring minimum downtime, maximum productivity, and minimum financial losses.

Distributed industrial automation deploys multiple interacting nodes, enabling the industrial Cyber-Physical Systems (iCPS) paradigm. This paper proposes a framework for the autonomic reconfiguration of CPS. The framework presents the industrial Cyber-Physical System Description Language (iCPS-DL), which provides a semantic foundation for an autonomic iCPS architecture, i.e., a system designed for continuous self-regulation and self-adaptation [3].

This work has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 958478 (EnerMan) and supported by the European Union Horizon 2020 program Teaming under Grant Agreement No. 739551 (KIOS CoE) and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus through the Deputy Ministry of Research, Innovation and Digital Policy.
