# D. A Water Distribution Network Example

Fig. 2 presents a simple yet realistic case study of a smart drinking water distribution system serving as a running example throughout the paper. The system consists of a pump actuator that increases system pressure and a water storage tank that meets the water demands of the area aggregated at the final junction point. These elements are typically geographically distant from each other. The system includes three cyber-physical devices with sensing capabilities to measure and transmit network states, such as pressure and flow. The control objective is to maintain the tank water level within user-defined parameters. A water level sensor agent, denoted as $\mathsf { S l e v e l }$ , is deployed at the water tank sensing point to measure the water level and transmit it to a controller agent, labelled as controller, deployed to control the pump actuator. The controller compares the water level with user-defined upper and lower thresholds, determining whether to send a stop or start signal to the pump actuator.

If a fault occurs in the level sensor the pump actuator may malfunction, potentially resulting in an overflow or an empty tank. However, an autonomic supervisor has sufficient information to estimate the tank’s water level. For instance, it can deploy an estimator agent that uses the inflow data from sensor agent $\mathsf  S i n f l o w$ and outflow data from sensor agent sdemand, along with an initial condition, init (the last known tank level), to estimate the current water level. A semantic description of the industrial process and its state estimation model guides the autonomic supervisor in inferring the water level estimator and its associated input and output states. Additionally, the communication semantics of each agent enable the autonomic supervisor to configure a live, deployable control loop.
