# B. Related Work

With regards to FTC, many derive unique controller architectures to accommodate hovering and high-speed flight of the quadrotor, despite single and double rotor loss by forfeiting yaw control [10], [17], [18]. Other FTC schemes include those based on sliding mode control [13], [19], machine learning [14], and model predictive control [16].

In aircraft literature, LOC is well-studied and is often defined as an excursion from the safe flight envelope (SFE) bounds [20], [21], [22], [23]. Due to the curse of dimensionality, obtaining estimates of the SFE is difficult and computationally intractable through standard Hamilton-Jacobi reachability analyses [24]. Therefore, Sun et al. [9] employ Monte Carlo simulations to approximate a 6-state SFE of a quadrotor through optimal (bang-bang) control. However, this approach does not accommodate the use of other controllers. Instead, other efficient SFE estimation techniques, such as [24], may be used. However, any estimated SFEs emerge from a given (nominal) model of the system and thus do not directly account for changing dynamics and/or faults. Deriving a family of, already computationally intensive, SFEs can be impractical.

Others instead define quadrotor LOC based on attitude constraints. For example, Schieni et al. [11] hedge the allowable attitude of the quadrotor to limit its aggressiveness, thereby avoiding dangerous manoeuvres. Altena et al. [12] train a recurrent neural network to predict quadrotor LOC using flight data of an undamaged quadrotor where LOC is defined as the moment when the roll or pitch angle exceed

90 deg. This is tailored to the LOC scenario of the data set. These definitions are prohibitive and scenario specific.
