\left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\varphi} \\ \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {\psi} \end{array} \right] = T \left[ \begin{array}{l} p \\ q \\ r \end{array} \right] \tag {7}
$$

Eq. (7) requires that $\Theta \neq \frac { \pi } { 2 }$ for derivatives. While $\varphi$ and θ angles are close to $0 ,$ it means that the quadrotor is hovering and $T$ is approximately a unit matrix [30]. In this situation, the relation between Earth’s angular rates and body angular velocities can be described as linear, as in Eq. (8).

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\varphi} \\ \dot {\theta} \\ \dot {\psi} \end{array} \right] \approx \left[ \begin{array}{l} p \\ q \\ r \end{array} \right] \tag {8}
$$

Force (F) and torque (T) formulas are represented in Eqs. (9) and (10). w is angular velocity, b is thrust coefficient, and $d$ is drag coefficient. The relative speed of the rotor $\left( w _ { r } \right)$ is given in Eq. (11). The i subscript in the equations describes the number of rotors from 1 to $4 .$ .

$$F _ {i} = b w _ {i} ^ {2} \tag {9}T _ {i} = d w _ {i} ^ {2} \tag {10}w _ {r} = - w _ {1} + w _ {2} - w _ {3} + w _ {4} \tag {11}$$

The relation between control inputs $( U _ { 1 } , \ U _ { 2 } , \ U _ { 3 } , \ U _ { 4 } )$ and angular velocities is represented in Eq. (12). $U _ { 1 }$ is lift force, and $U _ { 2 } , U _ { 3 }$ , and $U _ { 4 }$ represent relevant torques. The l symbol is the arm length of the quadrotor.

$$
u = \left[ \begin{array}{l} U _ {1} \\ U _ {2} \\ U _ {3} \\ U _ {4} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{l} F \\ T _ {\varphi} \\ T _ {\theta} \\ T _ {\psi} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} b & b & b & b \\ 0 & - l b & 0 & l b \\ l b & 0 & - l b & 0 \\ - d & d & - d & d \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} w _ {1} ^ {2} \\ w _ {2} ^ {2} \\ w _ {3} ^ {2} \\ w _ {4} ^ {2} \end{array} \right] \tag {12}
$$

The transformation from angular velocities to control inputs is given in Eq. (13).

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} w _ {1} ^ {2} \\ w _ {2} ^ {2} \\ w _ {3} ^ {2} \\ w _ {4} ^ {2} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} 1 / 4 b & 0 & 1 / 2 b l & - 1 / 4 d \\ 1 / 4 b & - 1 / 2 b l & 0 & 1 / 4 d \\ 1 / 4 b & 0 & - 1 / 2 b l & - 1 / 4 d \\ 1 / 4 b & 1 / 2 b l & 0 & 1 / 4 d \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} U _ {1} \\ U _ {2} \\ U _ {3} \\ U _ {4} \end{array} \right] \tag {13}
$$

The inertial moments of the quadrotor are represented in Eqs. (14)–(16). $M _ { s p h e r e }$ is the mass of the spherical dense center, $M _ { r o t o r }$ is the mass of one rotor, and r is the radius.
