# 4.1 PID Control

PID controllers are widely used in the industry because their structure is simple, their parameters can be easily adjusted, and they are easy to manufacture [31]. To prove the robustness of the proposed backstepping controller in this research, a comparative robustness analysis was carried out with the PID controller. The PID controller has three parameters: $K _ { p } , K _ { i } ,$ and $K _ { d }$ . The PID controller aims to minimize the error signal e(t) by using the control signal $u ( t )$ . The general equation of the PID controller is given in Eq. (23).

$$u (t) = K _ {p} e (t) + K _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e (\tau) d \tau + K _ {d} \frac {d e (t)}{d t} \tag {23}$$

The $U _ { 1 }$ control input that controls the altitude of the quadrotor is given in Eq. (24).

$$U _ {1} = \frac {m \left(g + e _ {z} K _ {p} + K _ {i} \int e _ {z} d t + K _ {d} \frac {d e _ {z}}{d t}\right)}{\cos \varphi \cos \theta} \tag {24}$$

In Eq. (24), θ angle is rotation around the y-axis and $\varphi$ angle corresponds to rotation around the x-axis. Since the quadrotor does not rotate in the x and y axes during vertical flight, the denominator of the $U _ { 1 }$ will never be zero.

$U _ { 2 } , U _ { 3 } ,$ , and $U _ { 1 }$ control inputs control roll, pitch, and yaw angles, respectively. The equations of these control inputs are given in Eqs. (25)–(27).

$$U _ {2} = e _ {\varphi} K _ {p} + K _ {i} \int e _ {\varphi} d t + K _ {d} \frac {d e _ {\varphi}}{d t} \tag {25}U _ {3} = e _ {\theta} K _ {p} + K _ {i} \int e _ {\theta} d t + K _ {d} \frac {d e _ {\theta}}{d t} \tag {26}U _ {4} = e _ {\psi} K _ {p} + K _ {i} \int e _ {\psi} d t + K _ {d} \frac {d e _ {\psi}}{d t} \tag {27}$$

Table 2 shows the PID controller coefficients. The PID Tuner app in Simulink was used to determine the coefficients of the PID controller. Coefficients were manually adjusted using the graphical interface of PID Tuner. Optimum controller coefficients were set to have low overshoot and short settling time.

Table 2: PID controller coefficients 

<table><tr><td>Coefficient</td><td>Altitude</td><td>Roll</td><td>Pitch</td><td>Yaw</td></tr><tr><td> $K_p$ </td><td>0.82</td><td>0.12</td><td>0.14</td><td>0.13</td></tr><tr><td> $K_i$ </td><td>1</td><td>0.05</td><td>0.07</td><td>0.05</td></tr><tr><td> $K_d$ </td><td>1.65</td><td>0.06</td><td>0.08</td><td>0.1</td></tr></table>
