1ω1 is located front left, ω2 front right, ω3 aft right and ω4 aft left.   
2Many open-source flight controllers, such as BetaFlight, support sampling rates of up to 8kHz.

necessary for the method described here, the differential form offers a simple way to derive a valid linear formulation, in particular for the control effectiveness B, of the system.

Often, the standard definition for controllability (i.e. eq. (9)) is too lenient as it does not consider the limits of the actuator. Indeed, for a system to be feasibly controllable, the actuators should be capable of enacting the change necessary to maintain control. This may not always be the case, especially in the presence of partial actuator faults or saturation. However, purely looking at actuator saturation for LOC detection is too restrictive as it may be necessary to (at least temporarily) saturate the actuators to satisfy reference tracking. Consider, for example, a "punch out" manoeuvre for the quadrotor or other such aggressive maneuvering which often saturates the rotors, but are often not considered LOC events3. The well-known controllability matrix is:

$$
C = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l l l} B & A B & A ^ {2} B & \dots & A ^ {n - 1} B \end{array} \right] \tag {9}
$$

In general, f (x, u) is mostly unknown and thus A and B need to be estimated. These may be estimated directly through eq. (8), or derived using the velocity form applied to a full non-linear model that approximates f (x, u) identified through other techniques, such as neural networks or stepwise regression [25], [27].

Note that, for fast systems such as the quadrotor, the time increment between samples is often small and thus $d \mathbf { x } \approx 0 .$ . While not strictly necessary for the metric, we will make the approximation that $d \dot { \mathbf { x } } \approx B$ · du when dealing with real flight data in section IV to address cases where reliable estimates of A may be unavailable. The $d \dot { \mathbf { x } } \approx B$ · du approximation can be made for systems with similar (actuator) characteristics, but should not be made when A · dx is not negligible across consecuetive time steps.
