describes a program that first sends an integer value, type nat, to participant p, followed by sending a boolean value, type bool, to participant q. After these operations protocol $T$ describes the remaining program.

2) Local protocol $T _ { 1 } { + } T _ { 2 }$ denotes a choice composition between local protocol $T _ { 1 }$ and local protocol $T _ { 2 }$ . For example, protocol:

$$\mathrm{p} _ {!} \mathrm{U} _ {1}. T _ {1} + \mathrm{p} _ {!} \mathrm{U} _ {2}. T _ {2}$$

declares a choice to send either a message of type $\mathsf { U } _ { 1 }$ or a message type $\mathsf { U } _ { 2 }$ to participant p and then continue with protocol $T _ { 1 }$ or $T _ { 2 } ,$ respectively.

Protocols of the form $T _ { 1 } + \ldots + T _ { n } ,$ for some $n > 0 .$ , are often abbreviated using notation $\textstyle \sum _ { 1 < i < n } T _ { i }$ .

3) Local protocol loop t.T declares a recursive protocol $T$ within a loop with label t, whereas label t denotes an execution jump to loop label t. For example, local protocol

$$\text { loop t.p?U.t }$$

describes a reception of message U from participant p in a loop.

4) Local protocol end is the inactive local protocol denoting the termination of a protocol. The inactive protocol is often omitted, e.g., protocol $\mathsf { p } _ { ! } \mathsf { U } _ { 1 } . \mathsf { q } _ { ? } \mathsf { U } _ { 2 }$ .end is written as $\mathsf { p } _ { ! } \mathsf { U } _ { 1 } . \mathsf { q } _ { ? } \mathsf { U } _ { 2 }$ .

The following example demonstrates the local protocols for the agents in Fig. 2 of the main paper.

Example A.1 (Sensor and estimator agents). The local protocols for the flow sensors and the estimator in Fig. 2 of the main paper are defined, respectively, as:

$$
\begin{array}{l} T _ {s _ {f}} = \text { loop   t.est } _ {!} \text { flow.t }, \\ T _ {\text { est }} = \text { loop   t.s } _ {f} ^ {1}? \text { flow.s } _ {f} ^ {2}? \text { flow.c!head.t. } \\ \end{array}
$$

A flow sensor loops and sends a flow value to estimator est. The estimator also loops and receives a flow value from the first sensor, $\mathsf { s } _ { \mathsf { f } } ^ { 1 }$ , followed by a flow value from the second sensor, ${ \mathsf S } _ { \mathsf { f } } ^ { 2 } ,$ , and then estimates and sends a head value to the controller c. □
