Figure 9: (a) Roll angle reference tracking under blue noise; (b) pitch angle reference tracking under blue noise; (c) yaw angle reference tracking under blue noise; (d) altitude reference tracking under blue noise

Table 8 represents the time response data of the controllers under blue noise.

According to Table 8, the backstepping controller has the shortest rise time for roll, pitch, and yaw angles. In addition, the backstepping controller shows the least overshoot in all reference types. The only controller that has a settling time in all references is the backstepping controller. Other controllers cannot settle within ±5% of the reference value due to noise. The PID controller has a settling time only in the altitude reference. Other references do not have data on settling time. The Lyapunov-based controller has no settling time in any reference and shows the highest overshoot. When all these results are evaluated, it turns out that the backstepping controller is the most robust of all.

Table 8: Time response of controllers under blue noise

<table><tr><td>Controller</td><td>Rise time (s)</td><td>Overshoot (%)</td><td>Settling time (s)</td></tr><tr><td>Roll angle PID</td><td>1.12</td><td>113.3</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Roll angle Lyapunov-based</td><td>1.74</td><td>307.7</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Roll angle backstepping</td><td>0.42</td><td>10.4</td><td>9.05</td></tr><tr><td>Pitch angle PID</td><td>0.98</td><td>87.2</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Pitch angle Lyapunov-based</td><td>3.49</td><td>272.9</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Pitch angle backstepping</td><td>0.77</td><td>13.3</td><td>9.07</td></tr><tr><td>Yaw angle PID</td><td>1.1</td><td>98.4</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Yaw angle Lyapunov-based</td><td>3.88</td><td>203.1</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Yaw angle backstepping</td><td>0.75</td><td>8.1</td><td>6.87</td></tr><tr><td>Altitude PID</td><td>0.49</td><td>14.2</td><td>4.02</td></tr><tr><td>Altitude Lyapunov-based</td><td>3.96</td><td>50.7</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>Altitude backstepping</td><td>1.42</td><td>0.5</td><td>2.57</td></tr></table>
