# VIII. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK

This work introduced a framework for the autonomic reconfiguration of CPS. It presents iCPS-DL, a language that enables an autonomic supervisor to describe and reason over iCPS control loop configurations. The iCPS-DL provides semantics for describing industrial domain ontology schemas, which are used to define industrial process knowledge graphs within the domain. The semantics also define agent interactions using behavioural types. Reasoning over the knowledge graph can identify a set of agents, whose deployment can configure a control loop. Moreover, behavioural types theory ensures safe and live agent interaction. The iCPS-DL expressive capabilities are demonstrated through a representation of the WDN domain while its autonomic enabling capabilities are showcased via an instructive example from this domain.

Future work focuses on conducting in-depth evaluation of the iCPS-DL framework using the KIOS Water Network Testbed [36], to validate its flexibility and robustness. Additionally, the type-theoretic foundations of iCPS-DL will serve as a basis for a new toolchain [6] that implements the modules of the autonomic supervisor. This toolchain may include: code generation by translating control loop local configurations into agent code templates that incorporate communication operations and algorithmic logic; communication libraries facilitating the composability and deployment of agents; a CPS programming language integrating behaviourally typed communication primitives and knowledge graph reasoning; and a tool offering visual representations of behavioural types to provide insights into control loop configurations.
