# V. AGENT-BASED SEMANTIC FRAMEWORK

The semantic framework for agent interactions is based on behavioural types [6]. For an introduction to multiparty session types refer to the tutorial paper [35]. Appendix A formally introduces the behavioural type theory for iCPS-DL.

Fig. 3 (above) defines the iCPS-DL grammar for behavioural types. Behavioural types use a textual notation, called local protocol, to define agent interactions. The syntax for send and receive actions form the core of a local protocol. A send action has the form p!type, representing a communication operation that sends a value of type type to agent p. Dually, a receive action p?type represents a communication operation that receives a value of type type from agent p.

Local protocol end represents the inactive local protocol, meaning it has no active behaviour. A sequence action composition indicates an agent performing the communication described by action, followed by the behaviour described by local protocol local. A choice protocol defines a choice between multiple local protocols. This choice is made using enumeration labels. For example, an agent with protocol p!signal { ON: local1 } or { OFF: local2 } sends either label ON or OFF of enumeration signal to participant p, and then proceeds with either local1 or local2, depending on the label sent. Conversely, an agent with protocol p? signal { ON: local1 } or { OFF: local2 } receives either label ON or OFF of enumeration signal from participant p, and then proceeds with either local1 or local2, depending on the label received. The recursion local protocol defines a loop, where the label 'ID' serves as the execution jump within the loop. For example, protocol loop. p?int. loop represents a loop where an agent repeatedly receives an integer message, int, from participant p.

A semantic description for an agent associates the agent’s name with a local protocol. For example, the following iCPS-DL code specifies the behaviour of a tank head estimator:

est = loop. s1?flow. s2?flow. controller!head. loop

Here, the estimator agent est operates in a loop. It first receives a flow value from sensor s1, followed by another flow value from sensor s2. It then estimates and sends a head value to the agent controller.
