The control inputs of attitude angles are defined from Eqs. (33) to (35) for the stability criteria.

$$U _ {2} = - \frac {I _ {x}}{l} (\varphi - \varphi_ {d}) - k _ {1} \dot {\varphi} \tag {33}U _ {3} = - \frac {I _ {y}}{l} \left(\theta - \theta_ {d}\right) - k _ {2} \dot {\theta} \tag {34}U _ {4} = - I _ {z} \left(\psi - \psi_ {d}\right) - k _ {3} \dot {\psi} \tag {35}$$

By substituting $U _ { 2 } , U _ { 3 } ,$ and $U _ { 1 }$ control inputs in Eq. (32), the equation could be rewritten as in Eq. (36).

$$\dot {V} (x) = - \dot {\varphi} ^ {2} \frac {l}{I _ {x}} k _ {1} - \dot {\theta} ^ {2} \frac {l}{I _ {y}} k _ {2} - \dot {\psi} ^ {2} \frac {l}{I _ {z}} k _ {3} \tag {36}$$

In the above equations from Eqs. (33) to $( 3 6 ) , k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 }$ and $k _ { 3 }$ indicate positive coefficients which are negative semidefinite. Stability for the equilibrium point is provided by the Lyapunov theorem. Asymptotic stability is achieved by LaSalle’s invariance principle since the controlled maximum invariant set of the subsystem in $\mathbf { S } = \{ \mathbf { X } \in \Re ^ { 6 } \dot { V } | _ { \mathrm { x } } = 0 \}$ is limited by the equilibrium point. Lyapunov function and its time derivative are given in Eqs. (37) and (38) for altitude control.

$$V (x) = \frac {1}{2} \left[ \left(z - z _ {d}\right) ^ {2} + \dot {z} ^ {2} \right] \tag {37}\dot {V} (x) = \left(z - z _ {d}\right) \dot {z} + \dot {z} \left(g - (\cos \theta \cos \varphi) \frac {U _ {1}}{m}\right) \tag {38}$$

U1 altitude control input is defined in Eq. (39) for stability.

$$U _ {1} = - \frac {m}{\cos \theta \cos \varphi} (z _ {d} - z - g) - k _ {z} \dot {z} \tag {39}$$

After the $U _ { 1 }$ is substituted in Eq. (38), the Eq. (40) is obtained. $k _ { z }$ is a positive constant given by Eq. (39), which is negative semi-definite.

$$\dot {V} (x) = - \dot {z} ^ {2} \frac {k _ {z}}{m} (\cos \theta \cos \varphi) \tag {40}$$

The coefficients of the Lyapunov-based controller are given in Table 3. While kz is the altitude controller coefficient, $k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 }$ , and $k _ { 3 }$ are the roll, pitch, and yaw angle controller coefficients. The Lyapunov-based controller coefficients are determined by trial and error. While determining the coefficients, the coefficients that would cause the least overshoot and the shortest settling time were preferred.

Table 3: Coefficients of the Lyapunov-based controller

<table><tr><td>Coefficient</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td> $k_z$ </td><td>2.15</td></tr><tr><td> $k_1$ </td><td>0.167</td></tr><tr><td> $k_2$ </td><td>0.168</td></tr><tr><td> $k_3$ </td><td>0.104</td></tr></table>
