where all coefficients are random and the coefficient A is even unbounded. The main technique is to find the saddle point through two backward stochastic differential equations (BSDEs) with unbounded coefficients. It is worth noting that the coefficients in our setting are all random and one of them is even unbounded, which makes our BSDEs significantly different from those in [4] and cannot be solved by existing results on BSDEs. Relying on BMO martingale techniques, we establish some a priori estimates and successfully obtain the existence and uniqueness results of these two BSDEs. We further study the corresponding stochastic control problem with mean-variance cost functional and achieve that both the robust stochastic control problem and the stochastic control problem with mean-variance cost functional share the same optimal control and optimal value. Finally we apply our results to MV an MMV portfolio selection problems. We obtain optimal strategies for both MV and MMV problems with random coefficients in a complete market and show by direct comparison that they coincide. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first result of obtaining the explicit solution of the MMV problems with random (and unbounded) interest rate, which partially answer the question proposed in [4] for random (and unbounded) interest rate and complete market. Upon this basis, we further investigate MMV and MV investment-reinsurance problems and obtain the same conclusion.

The reminder of this paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we formulate the robust control problems with random coefficients. In section 3, we establish the existence and uniqueness of solutions to two BSDEs with unbounded coefficients and obtain the optimal pair of the robust control problem. In section 4, we solve the control problem with mean-variance cost functional and make a comparison with the robust control problem. Applications to MMV and MV portfolio selection problems and MMV and MV investment-reinsurance problems are presented in section 5.
