# 5.1 Application to MMV and MV portfolio selection problem

In this subsection, we consider a financial market consisting of a risk-free asset (the money market instrument or bond) whose price is $S _ { 0 }$ and n risky securities (the stocks) whose prices are $S _ { 1 } , \ldots , S _ { n }$ , i.e., the number of risky securities is equal to the dimension of the Brownian motion. The asset prices $S _ { k } , k = 0 , 1 , \ldots , n .$ , are driven by SDEs:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} d S _ {0, t} = r _ {t} S _ {0, t} d t \\ S _ {0, 0} = s _ {0}, \end{array} \right.
$$

and

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} d S _ {k, t} = S _ {k, t} \left((\mu_ {k, t} + r _ {t}) d t + \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {n} \sigma_ {k j, t} d W _ {j, t}\right), \\ S _ {k, 0} = s _ {k}, \end{array} \right.
$$

where r is the interest rate process andfor every $k = 1 , \ldots , n , \mu _ { k }$ and $\sigma _ { k } : = ( \sigma _ { k 1 } , \ldots , \sigma _ { k n } )$ are the mean excess return rate process and volatility rate process of the k th risky security.

Define the mean excess return vector $\boldsymbol { \mu } = ( \mu _ { 1 } , \ldots , \mu _ { n } ) ^ { \prime }$ and volatility matrix

$$
\sigma = \left( \begin{array}{c} \sigma_ {1} \\ \vdots \\ \sigma_ {n} \end{array} \right) \equiv (\sigma_ {k j}) _ {n \times n}.
$$

Consider a small investor whose actions cannot affect the asset prices. The investor will decide at every time $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ the amount $\pi _ { j , t }$ of wealth to invest in the $j$ th risky asset, $j = 1 , \dotsc , n$ . The vector process $\pi : = ( \pi _ { 1 } , \ldots , \pi _ { n } ) ^ { \prime }$ is called a portfolio of the investor. Then the investor’s self-financing wealth process X corresponding to a portfolio π is the unique strong solution of the SDE:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} d X _ {t} = (r _ {t} X _ {t} + \pi_ {t} ^ {\prime} \mu_ {t}) d t + \pi_ {t} ^ {\prime} \sigma_ {t} d W _ {t}, \\ X _ {0} = x. \end{array} \right.
$$

We assume the following:

Assumption (B).

$$r \in L _ {\mathbb {F}, \mathbb {P}} ^ {2, \mathrm{BMO}} (0, T; \mathbb {R}), \quad \mu \in L _ {\mathbb {F}, \mathbb {P}} ^ {\infty} (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {n}), \quad \sigma \in L _ {\mathbb {F}, \mathbb {P}} ^ {\infty} (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {n \times n}), \tag {5.1}$$

and there exists a constant $\delta > 0$ such that $\sigma \sigma ^ { \prime } \geqslant \delta I _ { n \times n }$ for $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ .

We consider the following MMV problem and MV problem:
