# A. Local protocols

This section defines the theory for local protocols, which are textual descriptions of the commmunication interaction of a single agent.

Set

$$\mathcal {P} = \{\mathrm{p}, \mathrm{q}, \dots \}$$

is a set of interacting agents, such as controls, estimators, sensors and actuators, referred to as the set of participants.

Set

$$\mathcal {U} = \{\text { nat }, \text { bool }, \text { ON }, \text { OFF }, \dots \}$$

is a set of message types, e.g., integers (nat), booleans (bool), enumerations labels (ON, OFF, . . . ), etc. Symbol U denotes elements in $u ,$ i.e., $\cup \in { \mathcal { U } }$ .

Set

$$\Sigma = \mathcal {P} \times \{!,? \} \times \mathcal {U}$$

is an alphabet, whose elements, $\sigma \in \Sigma$ , describe participant actions. The send action, $\mathsf { p } _ { ! } \mathsf { U }$ , (written for convenience instead of $( \mathsf { p } , \mathsf { \Omega } _ { \mathsf { i } } ^ { \mathsf { l } } , \mathsf { U } ) )$ describes the sending of a message with type U to participant p. Dually, the receive action, p?U , describes the reception of a message of type U from participant p.

Actions are used to type the send and receive operators in a program. For example,

$$\operatorname{send} (p, 5): p _ {!} \text { nat }$$

denotes the typing of programming operator send $\mathsf { l } ( \mathsf { p } , 5 )$ , which sends a value 5 to a participant p, with action p!nat. Similarly,

$$\text { bool } x = \text { receive } (p): p _ {?} \text { bool }$$

denotes the typing of programming operator receive(p), which receives a boolean value from a participant p, with action $\mathsf { p } _ { ? }$ bool.

The composition of actions constructs the set of local protocols. Formally, the set of local protocols is inductively defined as:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {T} = \{\sigma . T \mid \sigma \in \Sigma , T \in \mathcal {T} \} \\ \cup \quad \left\{T _ {1} + T _ {2} \mid T _ {1}, T _ {2} \in \mathcal {T} \right\} \\ \cup \quad \{\text { loop   t. } T \mid T \in \mathcal {T} \} \\ \cup \quad \left\{t, t _ {1}, \dots \right\} \\ \cup \quad \{\text { end } \} \\ \end{array}
$$

1) Local protocol $\sigma . { \mathcal { T } }$ denotes sequential composition, where a state $T$ is preceded by an action, $\sigma \in \Sigma .$ , i.e., a protocol in state $\sigma . T$ observes action $\sigma$ and proceeds to state T. For example, local protocol

$$\mathsf {p} _ {!} \text { nat.} \mathsf {q} _ {?} \text { bool.} T$$
