A set of agents forms a local configuration, defining the interaction of multiple agents. Fig. 3 illustrates local configuration, lconfig, describing the running example in Fig. 2, focusing on the case where the control loop deploys a tank level estimator. Sensor agents s1 and s2 provide inflow and outflow values, respectively, to the est estimator agent. The estimator est computes and sends the head value to the controller. The controller then transmits a binary signal, ON or OFF, to regulate the pump agent u.

From a communication perspective, agents within a local configuration synchronise through their dual (send/receive) actions. Communicating agents must adhere to desired properties, such as deadlock freedom and liveness. Deadlock freedom ensures that a local configuration is either in a state where two agents can synchronise or all agents are inactive. Liveness, a cornerstone property for distributed systems, guarantees that every non-inactive agent will eventually perform an action, ensuring progress for all allocated components in an interaction. For a formal definition of communication transition semantics and local configuration properties, see Appendix A.

A global protocol provides an alternative perspective on behavioural types, which ensures properties such as deadlock freedom and liveness. Specifically, live local configurations may compose a global protocol in polynomial time with respect to the local configuration syntactic size (see Thm. A.3 in the Appendix).

Fig. 3 provides the iCPS-DL syntax for global protocols. The message-passing action, p->q:type, is the compositional block for global protocols. The action describes agent p sending type type to agent q. Global protocol end has no active behaviour. A message-passing protocol composes in sequence a message-passing action. A choice protocol declares a choice between multiple protocols. Concretely, protocol p->q:signal {ON: global1} or {OFF: global2}, describes participant p sending label ON or OFF to participant q. Both participants proceed according to the chosen label. The recursive global protocol defines a loop, where the label 'ID' serves as the execution jump within the loop.
