Specifically, iCPS-DL defines instances of the architecture as ontology metaschemas, called industrial domain definitions, e.g., water distribution systems, HVAC, and power systems. An industrial domain defines the physical and cyber-physical components of an industrial system, along with their state estimation capabilities. It also defines a knowledge base of iCPS agents in terms of their interaction semantics. A program in iCPS-DL represents an instance of an industrial domain. The reasoning capabilities of iCPS-DL enable autonomic iCPS configurations by constructing the state estimation knowledge graph of a program and identifying state estimation redundancies. A state estimation graph guides agent composition within an iCPS network, computing controller inputs and dynamically configuring new control loops.

The capabilities of iCPS-DL are demonstrated through a use case from the Water Distribution Network (WDN) domain. iCPS-DL is released under an Open Source licence1. A CodeOcean2 module includes a proof-of-concept autonomic supervisor controlling a simulation of the paper’s examples.

The rest of the paper is organised as follows: Sections II and III present background, and related work, respectively. Section IV defines the iCPS-DL framework. Section V defines the iCPS-DL semantics for communicating agents, whereas Section VI defines an ontology meta-schema for defining industrial domains. Section VII presents the iCPS-DL definition of the WDN domain and applies iCPS-DL reasoning over a corresponding example. Finally, Section VIII discusses future work and concludes. Theorems and supplementary material are included in the Appendix.
