# VI. A ONTOLOGY META-SCHEMA FOR AUTONOMIC INDUSTRIAL CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS

This section defines a meta-schema for defining ontology schemas for industrial process domains. This meta-schema enables users to create domain-specific ontologies for defining knowledge graph representations of industrial processes within these domains. Formally, an industrial domain is defined as:

$$\mathcal {O} = \langle \Pi , \Phi , \mathcal {K}, \tau , \langle F, \mu \rangle \rangle$$

where Π is the set of properties, Φ the set of estimator functions, K is a set of industrial component classes, and τ is a state estimation translation function. Structure $\langle F , \mu \rangle$ is an agent repository. Set F is the set of agents semantics, and agent mapping µ maps agents to the elements of the industrial domain. An industrial domain provides the information to define industrial processes, P . These concepts are introduced in detail below.

An industrial component class is defined as:

$$\langle k, \mathsf {p r}, f \rangle \in \mathcal {K},$$

where k is the class name, and ${ \mathsf { p r } } \subseteq \Pi$ and $f \subseteq \Phi$ are its attributes. Set pr characterises the properties of each state of the industrial component, while f represents the functions estimating the industrial component states. Classes are partitioned into physical components classes and sensing points classes. Sensing point classes have a single attribute specifying the property measured at that point. Moreover, actuator classes, A, are a subset of physical component classes, ${ \mathcal { A } } \subseteq { \mathcal { K } }$ .

The set of agents, F , is partitioned into estimator agents, $F ^ { g } ;$ sensor agents, $F ^ { s } ;$ controller agents, $F ^ { c . }$ ; and actuator agents $F ^ { a }$ . The description of agents uses behavioural semantics. Moreover, agent mapping

$$\mu : (F ^ {g} \to \Phi) \cup (F ^ {s} \to \Pi) \cup (F ^ {a} \to \mathcal {A}) \cup (F ^ {c} \to \mathcal {A}),$$

maps estimator, sensor, and actuator agents to the corresponding estimator functions, properties, and actuator classes, respectively. Also, it maps controller agents to actuator classes, indicating the actuators controlled by each controller.

An industrial process knowledge graph is defined as:

$$P = \langle G, \langle H, \delta \rangle \rangle .$$
