# C. Global protocols

Liveness is a cornerstone property in distributed systems, ensuring safe interaction and progress for all components involved. The mathematical definition of liveness requires verifying, for all active participants, the existence of valid transition paths and, moreover, recursively checking liveness for all reachable configurations. Algorithmically, a direct implementation of this definition necessitates exploring all possible transition paths of a local configuration. Consequently, this approach results in exponential time complexity relative to the syntactic size of the configuration.

The remainder of this section focuses on methods to ensure or construct live local configurations while avoiding procedures with exponential complexity.

Global protocols offer an alternative perspective on behavioural types, ensuring properties such as deadlock-freedom and liveness by design. Formally, the set of global protocols is defined as:

$$\mathcal {G} = \{\sigma . G \mid \sigma \in \Sigma_ {\mathbb {C}}, G \in \mathcal {G} \}\cup \left\{G _ {1} + G _ {2} \mid G _ {1}, G _ {2} \in \mathcal {G} \right\}\cup \quad \{\text { loop t. } G \mid G \in \mathcal {G} \}\cup \quad \left\{\mathbf {t}, \mathbf {t} _ {1}, \dots \right\}\cup \{\mathbf {e n d} \}$$

1) A sequential global protocol is a protocol G prefixed by a message-passing action $\mathsf { p } \to \mathsf { q } : \mathsf { U }$ , expressed as $\rho $ $\mathsf { q } : \mathsf { U } . G$  . This describes participant p sending a message of type U to participant q, after which the interaction proceeds according to protocol G.

2) Global protocol $G _ { 1 } { + } G _ { 2 }$ is a choice between protocols $G _ { 1 }$ and $G _ { 2 }$ . Notation $\textstyle \sum _ { 1 < i < n } G _ { i }$ P1≤i≤n abbreviates protocol $G _ { 1 } + \ldots + G _ { n } ,$ whenever $n \bar { > } \bar { 0 } .$ .

3) Global protocol loop t.G declares a global protocol G within a loop with label t.

4) The global protocol without any interaction is defined as end and is often omitted.

A global protocol specifies the behaviour of a local configuration by projecting its constituent roles. Conversely, a local configuration may compose a global protocol. The projection/composition relationship is defined axiomatically using derivation trees. Specifically, given a set of axioms in the form of derivation trees, a derivation tree:

$$t = \frac {p _ {1} , \ldots , p _ {n}}{p}$$
