# D. Loss-of-control Detection on Real Flight Data

From preliminary results, it was observed that applying a low-pass filter to the raw flight data (i.e. quadrotor rates and rotor speed measurements) improves the ability of the FCMW to distinguish between the non-LOC and LOC flights. This is likely due to the noise present in the data, which results in false positives when the actuators are near, or at, saturation during an aggressive manoeuvre. Therefore, the FCMW appears to be sensitive to noise in the data and adequate measures should be taken to minimize this effect.

Indeed, it is unclear what combination of majority voting window, MVW , and low-pass cut-off frequency, CF, yield the best LOC detection performance and how sensitive the FCMW is to these hyper-parameters. Therefore, the FCMW is computed across the whole flight data set for various combinations of voting window duration $M V W \in [ 0 . 0 2 , 0 . 0 5 , 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 , 0 . 6 , 1 , 1 . 2 , 1 . 5 ] \mathrm { s }$ and cut-off frequency CF ∈ [1, 5, 10, 30, 50, 100]Hz. The duration of the LOC inducing yaw manoeuvre lasts, on average, 2.4s before a crash, with the fastest crash occurring after 1.3s. Subsequently, the MVW is capped at 1.5s to afford the FCMW enough time to detect potential features which may occur within the period of the manoeuvre, but also to verify that windows longer than the LOC manoeuvre likely fail at detection altogether. Similar motivations for the cut-off frequency follow from power spectral densities of the raw flight data where the majority of the aerodynamics are observed to occur at frequencies below 50 Hz.
