# A. Motivation

As the world becomes more automated, and various robots become more integrated with daily life, the ability of these systems to recognize and prevent accidents is essential to their widespread and accepted use. In fact, Carlson et al. [1] found that the main cause of failure in many robotic applications is the control system (henceforth referred to as loss-of-control, LOC), followed by mechanical failures (e.g. actuators). Moreover, studies which find that the increase in automation and application of robotics often lead to more accidents, such as for aircraft autopilots [2] and manufacturing robots [3], only underscore this need for better safety.

In recent years, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have enjoyed a surge of popularity and use in the field of robotics and beyond. UAVs have become indispensable in a plethora of applications, such as: agriculture [4], (potentially hazardous) maintenance & inspection [5], medical operations [6], and videography. Recent literature on UAVs extends their versatility by equipping them with manipulators [7]. These manipulators may facilitate repairs of infrastructure, such as

off-shore wind turbines [5], or improve operational efficiency by enabling perching [8].

Given this explosion of research, and the perpetual concern of safety, it comes as no surprise that an extensive body of research focuses on improving UAV safety (e.g. [9], [10], [11], [12]). In particular, many of the advancements are centered around the under actuated - and thus vulnerable - quadrotor, which is perhaps the most popular variant of the UAV. However, many of these works (e.g. [10], [13], [14], [15], [16]) are concerned with fault-tolerant control (FTC), and thus do not directly address cases where the undamaged quadrotor experiences loss-of-control (LOC). Furthermore, LOC itself is not clearly defined for the quadrotor; the few LOC definitions that exist are based on simple attitude constraints and are thus too restrictive [11], [12]. Therefore, to encourage the advancement of LOC-aware quadrotors (and by extension other autonomous systems), there is a need to properly detect and label moments of LOC.
