# III. RELATED WORK

Several approaches propose architectures for safe, sound, and seamless self-reconfiguration of iCPS. For instance, the IEC 61499 standard for distributed automation and control [14] defines function blocks as reactive, composable components to build interactive distributed systems. The work in [15] maps the Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) to IEC 61499, integrating it with Autonomic Service Management (ASM) [16] to propose self-manageable and adaptive iCPS. The work in [17] introduces a self-manageable architecture for industrial automation systems by combining multi-agent systems with IEC 61499. The former framework employs a rule-based knowledge base for agent selection and composability, while the latter uses multi-agent modelling. In contrast, iCPS-DL selects agents based on a state estimation model and composes them according to their interaction semantics.

An ontology is a formal representation of domain knowledge, structured to define concepts and their relationships. Examples include the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) Semantic Sensor Networks (SSN) ontology [18] and the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) Smart Applications Reference Ontology (SAREF) [19]. Modelling languages, such as the OGC Sensor Model Language (SensorML) [20] and the Systems Modelling Language (SysML) [21] are widely used for iCPS modelling, whereas the Architecture Analysis and Design Language (AADL) [22] provides semantics for validation and code generation. Modelica [23] models CPS with equations and supports embedded system implementation. Bridging the two paradigms, knowledge graphs [24] organise metadata as interconnected nodes, facilitating reasoning and linking semantics to system models.
