# B. Local configurations

A role, ${ \mathsf { p } } : T ,$ associates a participant, p, with a local protocol, T. By extension, a local configuration is a mapping from participants to local protocols, i.e., a set of roles. Set

$$\mathcal {R} = \{S \mid S: \mathcal {P} \rightharpoonup \mathcal {T} \}$$

is the set of mappings (partial functions) from participants to local protocols. The union of local configurations preserves the partial function property; $S _ { 1 } , S _ { 2 } \ = \ S _ { 1 } \cup S _ { 2 }$ whenever dom $( S _ { 1 } ) \cap { \mathsf { d o m } } ( S _ { 2 } ) = \emptyset .$ , and undefined otherwise.

Function, ${ \mathsf { a p } } : { \mathcal { R } }  2 ^ { | { \mathcal { P } } | }$ , returns the active participants of a local configuration:

$$\mathsf {a p} (S) = \mathsf {d o m} (S) \backslash \{\mathsf {p} \mid \mathsf {p}: \mathsf {e n d} \in S \}.$$

Function $| \cdot | : \mathscr { R } \to \mathbb { N }$ returns the syntactic size of a local configuration:

$$\left| \left\{\mathrm{p} _ {\mathrm{i}}: T _ {i} \mid i \in I \right\} \right| = \sum_ {i \in I} \left| T _ {i} \right|$$

Example A.3 (A local configuration for the $\mathsf { W D N } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } )$ . Consider the example in Fig. 2 of the main paper and particularly the case where the level sensor has failed and the controlloop deploys a tank level estimator. The following local configuration defines the control loop configuration:

$$S _ {\text { sim }} = \text { est }: \text { loop t.s } _ {f} ^ {1}? \text { flow.s } _ {f} ^ {2}? \text { flow.c!head.t },s _ {f} ^ {1}: \text { loop t.est!flow.t },s _ {f} ^ {2}: \text { loop t.est!flow.t },u: \text { loop } t. (c _ {?} O N. t + c _ {?} O F F. t),c: \text { loop t.est\_head. } (u _ {!} O N. t + u _ {!} O F F. t)$$

Roles ${ \mathsf { s } } _ { \mathsf { f } } ^ { 1 } , \mathsf { s } _ { \mathsf { f } } ^ { 2 } ,$ , output to est, the inflow and output values, respectively, which in turn sends the estimated head value to the controller, c. The controller then sends a binary signal, ON or OFF, to control the pump. □

Within a local configuration, roles synchronise over their dual (send/receive actions) interactions to define a communication transition relation. Alphabet $\Sigma _ { \mathsf { C } }$ is the set of all synchronisation actions:

$$\Sigma_ {\mathsf {C}} = (\mathcal {P} \times \{\rightarrow \} \times \mathcal {P} \times \mathcal {U}).$$
