# APPENDIX B AN ONTOLOGY FOR THE WATER DISTRIBUTION NETWORK DOMAIN

An ontology schema for the Water Distribution Networks (WDN) domain is defined by the structure:

$$\mathcal {W D N} = \langle \Pi , \Phi , \mathcal {K}, \tau \rangle .$$

The set of properties, $\begin{array} { r c l } { \Pi } & { = } & { \{ \mathsf { f l o w } , \mathsf { h e a d } \} } \end{array}$ , defines the flow and the head properties. The set of estimators, $\Phi =$ {tmass, jmass, energy}, defines the tank mass estimator, tmass, and the junction mass estimator, jmass, adhering to the law of mass preservation, and the energy preservation estimator, energy, adhering to the law of energy preservation.

The set of industrial component classes is defined as:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {K} = \{\langle r, \{\text { head } \} \rangle , \\ \langle j, \{\text {flow}, \text {head} \}, \text {jmass} \rangle , \\ \langle t, \{\text { shape }, \text { head } \}, \text { tmass } \rangle , \\ \langle p, \{\text { shape }, \text { flow } \}, \text { energy } \rangle , \\ \langle u, \{\text { shape }, \text { flow } \}, \text { energy } \rangle , \\ \left\langle k _ {\text {flow}}, \{\text {flow} \} \right\rangle , \\ \left\langle k _ {\text { h   e   a   d }}, \{\text { h   e   a   d } \} \right\rangle , \\ \end{array}
$$

The first five classes correspond to the following physical components: reservoirs, junctions, tanks, pipes, and pumps. The last two classes represent flow sensing points and head sensing points. The pump class is the sole member of the set of actuator classes. Additionally, reservoirs, junctions, and tanks are categorised as physical node classes, while pipes and pumps are classified as physical link classes.

A knowledge graph for a water distribution network process, WDN, is defined as:

$$\mathsf {W D N} = \langle G, \langle H, \delta \rangle , \langle F, \mu \rangle \rangle$$

Graph $G ~ = ~ \langle V , E \rangle$ , is called water distribution network graph. Following the definition of industrial component classes, set V , with $v _ { 1 } , v _ { 2 } , \cdots \in V$ , is partitioned into: i) reservoirs, $V ^ { r } ;$ ii) junctions, $V ^ { j } ;$ iii) tanks, $V ^ { t } ;$ iv) pipes, $V ^ { p } ;$ v) pumps, $V ^ { u . } ;$ vii) flow sensing points, $S ^ { \mathsf { f l o w . } }$ and viii) head sensing points, $S ^ { \mathsf { h e a d } }$ . Structure $\langle H , \delta \rangle$ follows the general definition of industrial process ontologies.
