# C. Quadrotor Loss-of-control Flight Data Overview

For a more practical demonstration, we here apply the FCMW to real LOC flight data. As a means of comparison, the LOC flight data collected in the LOC prediction study of Altena et al. [12] is used here. Flights are flown using a custom built quadrotor from commercial parts, the properties of which are summarized in table II. The flight data is collected in the CyberZoo - an open area of 7x7x10m in height, width, and length respectively - at the Delft University of Technology. LOC is induced by demanding an excessively high yaw rate (±2000 deg/s) from the quadrotor. Some time after the start of this manoeuvre, the quadrotor begins to oscillate about its roll and pitch axes with increasing magnitude until it makes a sudden, aggressive, turn culminating in a crash. More details on the quadrotors used, the LOC manoeuvre, and the flight data itself can be found in [12]. Note that this LOC scenario is more nuanced than the clear-cut actuator fault case investigated in section IV-B.

Moreover, in [12], LOC is defined as the moment in time where the roll or pitch angle exceeds, and continues to exceed, 90 deg after the start of the yawing manoeuvre. As stated by the authors, this definition is rather rudimentary and is tailored to the yaw LOC scenario. Indeed, the true moment of LOC may occur before, or after, the labelled moment. Therefore, the yaw manoeuvre flights which did not meet the LOC definition criteria of [12] are also included in this study. Moreover, system identification flights for the CineGo quadrotor are also included in the data set as a ground truth for which LOC is not considered to occur. These include flights where a similar aggressive yaw manoeuvre is conducted, but stopped before any off-axis oscillations start. This culminates in a total of 121 flights: 12 are non-LOC flights and the remaining 109 harbor the dangerous - potentially LOC inducing - yaw manoeuvre, of which only 34 meet the attitude criteria of [12].

TABLE II PROPERTIES OF THE GEPRO CINEGO QUADROTOR

<table><tr><td>Mass (incl. batteries), g</td><td>265</td></tr><tr><td>Diagonal hub-to-hub diameter, mm</td><td>361</td></tr><tr><td>Propeller diameter, mm</td><td>76.5</td></tr><tr><td>Motor, -</td><td>Emax Eco 1407 3300kv</td></tr><tr><td>Batteries, -</td><td>1x Tattu R-Line 14.8V 550mAh 4S</td></tr><tr><td>Flight Controller (FC), -</td><td>MATEKSYS F722-mini 2-8S</td></tr><tr><td>FC Software, -</td><td>Betaflight 4.2</td></tr></table>
