# 1 Introduction

The mean-variance (MV) preferences, initially introduced by Markowitz [13], stand as one of the most widely used objectives for portfolio selection problems. Many studies have utilized this criterion to investigate the portfolio selection problems, see e.g., [21, 22, 6] in continuous-time settings and [8, 10, 23] in discrete-time settings. However, a major drawback of MV preferences is their lack of monotonicity. That means a strictly wealthier investor may possess lower utility compared to others, contradicting the fundamental assumption of economic rationality. To address this significant limitation, Maccheroni et al. [12] introduced monotone mean-variance (MMV) preferences and tackled the MMV model in a single-period setting. They showed that the MMV preference constitutes the smallest monotone preference functional coinciding with mean–variance on their domain of monotonicity. This provided an approach to show the optimal strategies to MV problems and MMV problems coincide by proving the optimal strategies to both MV and MMV preferences lead to a terminal wealth within the domain of monotonicity of the classical mean–variance functional. Within this framework, Strub and Li [18] illustrated the optimal strategies and values of MV and MMV are consistent when asset prices are continuous. Further, in a stochastic factor model, Li, Liang and Pang [9] demonstrated the equivalence of MV and MMV under certain conditions, including situations involving jumps. Recently, Du and Strub [2] took the trading constraints into account and investigated the equivalence of MV and MMV portfolio selection problems when asset prices are continuous under general trading constraints.
