# II. QUADROTOR MODEL

The equations of motion for the quadrotor, expressed in the body reference frame, may be described by

$$m \left(\dot {\mathbf {V}} _ {B} + \boldsymbol {\Omega} _ {B} \times \mathbf {V} _ {B}\right) = R _ {B E} m \mathbf {g} + \mathbf {F} _ {B} \tag {1}\mathbf {I} _ {\mathbf {v}} \dot {\boldsymbol {\Omega}} _ {B} + \boldsymbol {\Omega} _ {B} \times \mathbf {I} _ {\mathbf {v}} \boldsymbol {\Omega} _ {B} = \mathbf {M} _ {B} \tag {2}$$

where, the mass and moment of inertia of the quadrotor are denoted by m and $I _ { \nu }$ respectively. The gravity vector, defined in the inertial (North-East-Down, NED) reference frame is given by g and the rotation matrix transforming a vector from the inertial frame to the body frame is represented by $R _ { E B }$ . The body translational and rotational velocities are described by $\mathbf { V } _ { B } \dot { = } [ u , \nu , w ] ^ { T }$ and $\Omega _ { B } = [ p , q , r ] ^ { T }$ respectively. $\mathbf { F } _ { B } = [ F _ { x } , F _ { y } , F _ { z } ] ^ { T }$ and $\mathbf { M } _ { B } = [ M _ { x } , M _ { y } , M _ { z } ] ^ { T }$ represent the (aerodynamic) forces and moments acting on the quadrotor body.

The non-linear $\mathbf { F } _ { B }$ and $\mathbf { M } _ { B }$ can be identified from flight data through step-wise regression [25]. Indeed, step-wise regression has previously, and successfully, been applied and numerically validated for quadrotors (interested readers are directed to [26], [27], [28] for more details on the identification procedure and model structure selection). We here employ the models of [28], for which the underlying high-speed flight data is collected (at 500Hz) via free flights in a wind tunnel with wind speeds ranging from 0-14 m/s.

While the LOC detection method proposed in section III should be generalizable to other controlled systems where state and actuator models/measurements are available, we here apply the metric to the (inner-loop) rate control of a quadrotor. Rearranging eq. (2) and replacing $\mathbf { M _ { B } }$ with the appropriate identified polynomial aerodynamic models of [28] yields eq. (3).

$$
\dot {\Omega} _ {B} = \mathbf {I} _ {\mathbf {v}} ^ {- 1} \left[ \begin{array}{c} M _ {x} (p, u _ {p}) \\ M _ {y} (q, u _ {q}) \\ M _ {z} (r, u _ {r}) \end{array} \right] - \mathbf {I} _ {\mathbf {v}} ^ {- 1} \boldsymbol {\Omega} _ {B} \times \mathbf {I} _ {\mathbf {v}} \boldsymbol {\Omega} _ {B} \tag {3}
$$
