Well-known RL methods like DQN [8], PPO [9], and MPO [10] achieve strong performance by leveraging various other innovations. DQN employs deep networks, which are extremely flexible but yield slow convergence in large spaces. PPO and MPO focus on stabilizing parameter updates rather than directly improving convergence speed. In contrast, our methods leverage structured parametrizations and convex optimization to achieve fast learning, particularly in problems where flexibility is less critical.

Although various results in the literature accelerate Qlearning using parametrization structures, to the best of the authors’ knowledge, none combine two crucial elements

1) Direct learning of the optimal Q-function, which means the parametrized Q-function learning problem can be solved in one step;   
2) Fast and guaranteed convergence by exploiting convex optimization.

By combining these two aspects, LMI-QL(i) achieves rapid convergence with minimal data. A numerical case study demonstrates both methods’ effectiveness, comparing LMI-QL(i) to LSPI.

This paper is organized as follows. Section II presents the problem tackled in this paper, as well as provides some preliminaries on parametric Q-function learning. In Section III, the proposed convex Q-learning methods are presented. In Section IV, we present the results of applying the methods to a nonlinear pendulum system. Lastly, Section V gives conclusions and recommendations for future research.

Notation. Let $\mathbb { R } = ( - \infty , \infty )$ . Let $\mathbb { N } = \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots \}$ denote the natural numbers. The i-th element of a vector x is denoted $x [ i ]$ . The identity matrix of size n is denoted by $I _ { n } . \mathrm { A }$ normal distribution with mean vector $\mu \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and covariance matrix $\ b { \Sigma } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ is denoted $\mathcal { N } ( \boldsymbol { \mu } , \boldsymbol { \Sigma } )$ .
