# V. NUMERICAL EXPERIMENTS

We demonstrate the performance of our method through simulation on a flexible rod on a cart. We compare our method with two unconstrained neural network controllers and an LTI controller. For shorthand, we refer to our method as Stability Margin Recurrent Implicit Neural Network (SM-RINN). The unconstrained neural network controllers we compare against are an unconstrained RINN (U-RINN) and a standard fully connected feedforward neural network (FCNN). The LTI controller (referred to as LTI) is trained using the same method as the SM-RINN: it guarantees the same stability margins.

Since all plants and controller models are defined in continuous time, we implement them by simulating between timesteps with the Runge-Kutta 4th order method. We use PyTorch and Ray RLLib with the proximal policy optimization algorithm for training. All code is online at github.com/neelayjunnarkar/nn-stability-margins.

The full model of the flexible rod on a cart is as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {x} _ {f} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & I \\ - M ^ {- 1} K & - M ^ {- 1} B \end{array} \right] x _ {f} (t) + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ M ^ {- 1} [ \frac {1}{0} ] \end{array} \right] u (t) \\ y (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 \end{array} \right] x _ {f} (t) \\ M = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} m _ {b} + m _ {r} + \rho L & m _ {t} + \frac {\rho L}{3} \\ m _ {t} + \frac {\rho L}{3} & m _ {t} + \frac {\rho L}{5} \end{array} \right] \\ K = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & 0 \\ 0 & \frac {4 E I}{L ^ {3}} \end{array} \right], \quad B = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0. 9 \end{array} \right] \tag {14} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $x _ { f } ( t ) = \left[ x _ { b } ( t ) \quad h ( t ) \quad \dot { x } _ { b } ( t ) \quad \dot { h } ( t ) \right] ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 4 }$ is the state of the flexible rod on a cart, $x _ { b } ( t )$ is the position of the rod’s base, $h ( t )$ is the horizontal deviation of the top of the rod from the base, $m _ { b } = 1$ kg is the mass of the base, $m _ { t } = 0 . 1$ kg is the mass of an object at the top of the rod, $L = 1$ m is the rod length, $\rho = 0 . 1$ N/m is the mass density of the rod, $r = 1 0 ^ { - 2 }$ m is the radius of the rod cross-section, $E = 2 0 0 \cdot 1 0 ^ { - 9 } ~ \mathrm { G P a }$ is the Young’s modulus of steel, and $\begin{array} { r } { I = \frac { \pi } { 4 } r ^ { 4 } \mathrm { { m } ^ { 4 } } } \end{array}$ is the area second moment of inertia. The output y represents the measurement of the position of the rod tip.
