# III. PROBLEM FORMULATION AND MAIN RESULTS

Consider a multi-agent system comprising N agents. Each agent is represented as a node in the undirected graph G and is only limited to communications with its neighbors within the network. Suppose that each agent is modeled as the subsequent continuous-time first-order

$$\dot {x} _ {i} (t) = u _ {i} (t) + d _ {i} (t), \quad i \in \mathcal {V} \tag {2}$$

where $x _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $u _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ are the state and control input of the ith agent, and $\ b { d } _ { i } ( t ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is an unknown disturbance impacting the system. Each agent i is allocated with a differentiable local time-varying cost function $f _ { i } ( x , t )$ : $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } _ { + } \to \mathbb { R } .$ , which is private to that agent. The overall cost function $F ( x ) : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } _ { + } \to \mathbb { R }$ for all agents is defined as $\begin{array} { r } { F ( x ) = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } f _ { i } ( x , t ) } \end{array}$ . The objective of this paper is to formulate a distributed control law $u _ { i } ( t )$ for the first-order system (2) by using only local information and interactions with neighbor agents, ensuring that all agents converge to an optimal state $\boldsymbol { x } ^ { * } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . The optimization problem is defined as

$$\min _ {x _ {i}} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} f _ {i} (x _ {i} (t), t)$$

$\begin{array} { r } { \mathrm { s . t . } \quad g _ { i } ( x _ { i } ( t ) , t ) \leq 0 , \quad x _ { i } ( t ) = x _ { j } ( t ) , \quad \forall i , j \in \mathcal { V } } \end{array}$ (3)

where $g _ { i } ( x _ { i } , t ) \colon { \mathbb { R } } ^ { n } \times { \mathbb { R } } _ { + } \to { \mathbb { R } } ^ { q _ { i } }$ are local inequality constraint functions and $q _ { i }$ represents the number of local inequality constraints for agent i. Here, the goal is that each state $x _ { i } ,$ $\forall i \in \nu$ , converges to the optimal solution $\boldsymbol { x } ^ { * } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , i.e.,

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \left(x _ {i} (t) - x ^ {*} (t)\right) = 0. \tag {4}$$

For ease of notation, we will eliminate the time index t from the variables $x _ { i } ( t ) , \ d _ { i } ( t )$ and $u _ { i } ( t )$ in the majority of the subsequent sections, retaining it only in specific instances where deemed necessary. To address the above distributed time-varying optimization problems with disturbances, we introduce the following assumptions.

Assumption 1 (Graph connectivity): The graph $\mathcal { G }$ is fixed, undirected, and connected.
