# D. Distributed Control Design

This section presents the design of a distributed inspection control law for each $\mathrm { U A V } \ i \ \in \ \mathcal { V } .$ which is governed by (1). The main objective of this control law is to drive the multi-UAV system to inspect an object of interest. To achieve this goal, certain standard assumptions have been made.

Assumption 1: Each quadrotor UAV is capable of computing its own Voronoi region in a distributed way.

Assumption 2: Each quadrotor UAV has the ability to communicate with its Voronoi neighbors and share information.

For each UAV $i \in \mathcal { V } .$ , we design a distributed control law as follows:

$$\boldsymbol {u} _ {i} = \boldsymbol {u} _ {c, i} + \boldsymbol {u} _ {o, i} \tag {10}$$

to ensure complete inspection of the object of interest while maintaining the safety of the multi-agent system. The first term is a proportional-derivative (PD) controller that drives the agent towards centroid $C _ { V _ { i } }$ given by

$$\boldsymbol {u} _ {c, i} = k _ {p} M _ {V _ {i}} \mathbf {C} _ {V _ {i}} - (k _ {p} M _ {V _ {i}} \mathbf {p} _ {i} + k _ {d} \boldsymbol {v} _ {i}) \tag {11}$$

where $k _ { p } , k _ { d } ~ > ~ 0$ are, respectively, the proportional and derivative control gains. The second term corresponds to an object avoidance controller $\mathbf { \Delta } \mathbf { u } _ { o , i } = - \nabla _ { \mathbf { p } _ { i } } U _ { o , i }$ that ensures the multi-agent system safety given in more detailed by

$$\boldsymbol {u} _ {o, i} = \sum_ {l = 1} ^ {| \mathcal {Q} _ {T} |} \mu_ {o} c _ {i l} \left(\frac {1}{\| \mathbf {p} _ {i} - \mathbf {q} _ {T} ^ {l} \|} - \frac {1}{d _ {o}}\right) \frac {\mathbf {p} _ {i} - \mathbf {q} _ {T} ^ {l}}{\| \mathbf {p} _ {i} - \mathbf {q} _ {T} ^ {l} \| ^ {2}} \tag {12}$$

where $\mu _ { o }$ is the gain of the obstacle-free term, $d _ { o }$ is the minimum acceptable distance between the UAV i and the object boundary, and the binary variable $c _ { i l } , \ \forall \ i \ \in \ \mathcal { V } .$ , ∀ $l \in \{ 1 , \dots , | \mathcal { Q } _ { T } | \}$ is defined as:

$$
c _ {i l} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1, & \forall \| \mathbf {p} _ {i} - \mathbf {q} _ {T} ^ {l} \| \leq d _ {o} \\ 0, & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {13}
$$

We define a candidate Lyapunov function as

$$\Upsilon = k _ {p} \mathcal {H} + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \frac {1}{2} \boldsymbol {v} _ {i} ^ {T} \boldsymbol {v} _ {i} + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} U _ {o, i}. \tag {14}$$
