# I. INTRODUCTION

Large-scale systems are generally difficult to control centrally due to the heavy burden on communication and information processing. Distributed handling of such systems has garnered significant interest and has been actively researched, especially with advancements in sensor and actuator technologies [1]–[3].

The difficulty in centrally designing a distributed controller arises from the sparsity constraints on the structure of the controller gains. This results in the non-convexity of optimization problems using linear matrix inequalities (LMIs), whereas in centralized control, problems can be formulated as convex optimization problems. Exact convexification of this problem is still open, except for special cases such as positive-systems [4], [5], or for finite horizon [6]. Therefore, several convex relaxation methods have been proposed. For continuous-time systems, a typical convex relaxation restricts the Lyapunov function to a block-diagonal matrix [7]–[9]. For discretetime systems, alongside the block-diagonal relaxations [7], [10], another approach based on extended LMIs has been

\*This work was supported by JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number 23K22781 and 23K20947.   
Sotaro Fushimi is with the Department of Systems Science, Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Yoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan, s-fushimi@sys.i.kyoto-u.ac.jp.   
Yuto Watanabe is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA 92093 USA, y1watanabe@ucsd.edu.   
Kazunori Sakurama is with the Department of System Innovation, Graduate School of Engineering Science, Osaka University, 1-3, Machikaneyama, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan, sakurama.kazunori.es@osaka-u.ac.jp.

employed in [11]–[14], which exploits a specific structure of discrete-time Lyapunov inequalities. Although this approach still involves conservatism, it allows us to search for nonblock-diagonal Lyapunov matrices. The conservatism of these methods arises from representing sparse gain matrices as the product of a sparse matrix and a block-diagonal matrix. To reduce this conservatism, our prior work on continuous-time systems presented a method with clique-wise decomposition [15]. However, [15] still exhibits conservatism, as the Lyapunov matrices are constrained by sparsity.
