The stability of the multi-UAV system using the control scheme (10) can be demonstrated by considering the following two cases. In the first case, if the $\mathrm { U A V } \ i \ \in \ \mathcal { V }$ is outside any repulsive region, that is, $\lVert \mathbf { p } _ { i } - \mathbf { q } _ { T } ^ { l } \rVert \geq d _ { o }$ for all $l \in { 1 , \dots , | \mathcal { Q } _ { T } | }$ , the third term of the Lyapunov function disappears and the obstacle avoidance term of the proposed control law is removed due to all binary variables $c _ { i l } = 0 .$ . Consequently, asymptotic stability can be easily proved. In the second case, if the UAV $i \in \mathcal V$ is within at least one repulsive region such that $\lVert \mathbf { p } _ { i } - \mathbf { q } _ { T } ^ { l } \rVert < d _ { o }$ , the corresponding binary variables $c _ { i l } = 1$ , and therefore $\mathbf { \boldsymbol { u } } _ { o , i } \neq \boldsymbol { 0 }$ . Following a similar analysis, the asymptotic stability of the multi-agent system is derived.

Remark 1: The computation of the control scheme (11) is accomplished through the exchange of information between the $i ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ UAV and its Voronoi neighbors to calculate the mass and centroid of its Voronoi region. Therefore, this control scheme is classified as distributed.

Remark 2: The ith UAV’s motion tends to the centroid of its Voronoi region when the control scheme (11) is employed. Since the centroid always lies inside the Voronoi region, and the Voronoi tessellations generate non-overlapping regions, there will be no inter-UAV collision during the mission.

As we have presented the entire methodology, the overall process is outlined in Algorithm 1. In summary, each UAV acquires the position of its neighbors to compute the centroid of its Voronoi region, which is then used in the distributed control law. Additionally, each UAV combines its target inspection status set with the sets of its corresponding neighbors, resulting in an updated density function that directs the UAV to uninspected regions.
