# I. INTRODUCTION

Friction compensation is inherently challenging for two reasons: First, friction models can not be derived from firstprinciples physics laws due to the highly nonlinear and dynamic micro and macro friction phenomenon. Second, friction is difficult to measure, and most robot manipulators

1Department of Computer Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt ¨ {junning, davide, puze}@robot-learning.de, jan.peters@tu-darmstadt.de   
2Department of Systems AI for Robot Learning, German Research Center for AI (DFKI)   
3Hessian Centre for Artificial Intelligence

do not have expensive torque sensors. Third, friction estimation is affected by the precision of other dynamic parameters of the robot manipulator, e.g., gravity and inertia.

Empirical models are essential for addressing friction modeling challenges and are categorized into static and dynamic types [20]. Static models, like the nonlinear Stribeck model, efficiently capture nonlinear effects such as the Stribeck effect and static friction, making them suitable for real-time applications. However, they fail to represent dynamic behaviors like hysteresis and stick-slip motion. In practice, to construct a simple model for better parameter estimation, some nonlinear effects of friction are neglected, and only Coulomb and viscous friction are included [3].

While dynamic models can capture time-dependent behaviors such as hysteresis, they are computationally intensive and often involve complex parameter estimation. They can also be numerically unstable due to stiff ordinary differential equations. These issues make dynamic models less practical, leading to the more frequent use of static models where simplicity and computational efficiency are prioritized.

Adaptive control-based friction estimation or friction observers can estimate friction without torque sensors. The most popular design scheme for adaptive control is the certainty equivalence principle (CE). CE separates the design of control and estimation laws and can guarantee stability with a weak Lyapunov function. However, the CE-based design usually relies on a linear parameterization of the friction model and cannot guarantee parameter convergence. Hence, simplified linear models that omit nonlinear effects from static friction or stribeck effect and relay-based design are usually used for model representation.
