where $\phi : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \phi } }$ is a vector of basis functions in the state variable x and in which $T \in \mathbb { R } , R : = \bigg [ R _ { x } \bigg ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \phi } + n _ { u } }$ and $S : = \begin{array} { l l } { \left[ S _ { x x } \ \right]} & { S _ { x u } } \\ { S _ { x u } ^ { \top } } & { S _ { u u } }   \end{array} \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( n _ { \phi } + n _ { u } ) \times ( n _ { \phi } + n _ { u } ) }$ Sxx Sxu with $S \ =$ $S ^ { \top } \succ 0$ . The parameter vector θ contains all the elements of $T , R ,$ and the upper-triangular elements of S. Hence, $\begin{array} { r } { n _ { \theta } = 1 + n _ { \phi } + n _ { u } + \frac { \dot { ( n _ { \phi } + n _ { u } ) } ( \overline { { n } } _ { \phi } + n _ { u } + 1 ) } { 2 } } \end{array}$ .

This particular parametrization allows us to model Qfunctions that maximize around the target state-action pair $( x ^ { e } , u ^ { e } )$ . If $\phi ( x ) = x ,$ , then the quality of the states and actions quadratically decreases as we move away from the point $( x ^ { e } , u ^ { e } )$ . Note that in the LQR setting (linear dynamics, quadratic reward), we obtain a quadratic quality function, even when the target $( x ^ { e } , u ^ { e } )$ is not the origin.

Given a Q-function parametrization, the corresponding greedy action can be found by setting the partial derivatives with respect to u equal to zero and solving for u. For the particular parametrization in (10), we obtain

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {\pi} (x) = \underset {1} {\arg \max} \tilde {Q} (x, u, \theta) \tag {11} \\ = \bar {\pi} (x) + \frac {1}{2} S _ {u u} ^ {- 1} R _ {u} - S _ {u u} ^ {- 1} S _ {x u} ^ {\top} \phi (x). \\ \end{array}
$$

Note that the basis functions $\phi$ appear linearly in this greedy policy. In this sense, $\phi$ allows us to choose an affine feedback parametrization. The choice of $\phi$ also informs the PE requirements on the dataset D, which is explained in the following remark.

Remark 1. Even though the proposed methods are off-policy, the data-generating policy cannot be selected arbitrarily. We need stochasticity in the policy during the creation of data set $\mathcal { D } _ { : }$ , such that the inputs persistently excite the basis functions $\phi$ through the dynamics. In this case, the PE condition is satisfied if the parameter optimization problem (8) with (10) has a unique solution.

When we substitute (11) into the parametrized Q-function (10), we obtain
