Next, we introduce a penalty term to the cost function, such that the inequality $W \succeq \Psi S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi$ becomes closer to equality. This penalty term can be chosen in many different ways. In this paper, we choose the nuclear norm of $W .$ , i.e.,

$$\| W \| _ {*} := \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n _ {\phi} + 1} \sigma_ {i} \tag {17}$$

where $\sigma _ { i }$ are the singular values of W . Note that since W is square and positive semidefinite, $\| W \| _ { * } = \operatorname { t r } ( W )$ .

The choice of the nuclear norm as the penalty function is motivated by several factors. Firstly, the trace operator maintains the convexity of the optimization problem. Secondly, penalizing the nuclear norm — equal to the sum of the eigenvalues of W — directly addresses the gap between W and Ψ $\because S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi ^ { \top }$ by discouraging excessively large eigenvalues of W . Lastly, in typical applications we see that $n _ { u } < n _ { \phi } + 1$ , which results in $\Psi S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi ^ { \top }$ being rank-deficient. The nuclear norm presents a convexification of matrix rank minimization [11] and can therefore be used to promote rank-deficient W .

Together with the previous idea, this leads to the following optimization problem

$$\min _ {\theta} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N} t _ {k} + \lambda \operatorname{tr} (W),\text { s.t. } t _ {k} \geq \tilde {z} _ {k}, \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \},t _ {k} \geq - (\tilde {z} _ {k}), \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \}, \tag {18}
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} W & \Psi \\ \Psi^ {\top} & S _ {u u} \end{array} \right] \succeq 0,
S \succ 0,S _ {x x} \succ W _ {1 1},$$

Given a dataset D, we can optimize λ using line search. In particular, we find the solution to the penalized optimization problem (18) for a specific value of $\lambda ,$ which we then substitute into the original non-relaxed cost function (13). We select the next λ using line search and repeat until we find the λ that gives the lowest cost in (13).
