control deviations from a given base policy, as detailed in Section III. Second, we find the Q-function parameters by minimizing the $\ell _ { 1 }$ -norm of the data-based Bellman errors. We propose two numerical methods to tackle the resulting episodic parameter optimization problem by solving convex subproblems. The first method reformulates the Bellman error minimization problem as a semidefinite programming problem by fixing the optimization variables that appear nonlinearly. We can then solve the resulting convex problem, update the previously fixed variables, and repeat the process iteratively. The second numerical method that we propose relies on a convex relaxation of the temporal difference minimization problem in the form of a semidefinite program including a set of linear matrix inequalities (LMIs). Convex relaxations provide efficient suboptimal solutions for difficult non-convex optimization problems while bounding the original cost function.

Even though both methods employ convex optimization to ensure convergence, the resulting solutions typically differ from the optimal Q-function due to the approximations introduced by coordinate descent and convex relaxations. Nonetheless, practical results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approaches. Importantly, the proposed methods belong to the class of off-policy RL methods, and thus the data used can be generated in any way. We coin the term linear matrix inequality Q-learning (LMI-QL) for the second method and linear matrix inequality Q-learning with iterations (LMI-QLi) for the first.

Our proposed methods share similarities with existing approaches like least-squares temporal difference (LSTD) learning [5], which uses convex least-squares optimization to improve data efficiency. Extensions such as recurrent leastsquares temporal difference (RLSTD) offer further improvements. Least squares policy iteration (LSPI) [6] extends the idea of LSTD to the Q-function. In [7], an overview of more least-squares RL methods is presented. Importantly, these methods typically find the expected return under the current policy, while our methods directly target the optimal Q-function, potentially accelerating convergence.
