In safety-critical applications, such as aviation, the classical notions of gain and phase margins are well-accepted to the point of being a part of regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration [1]. Satisfaction of a stability margin ensures the controller will stabilize a plant despite a class of unmodeled dynamics. However, it is possible for systems with large gain and phase margins to be destabilized by an arbitrarily small simultaneous variation in plant gain and phase [11]. Instead, the notion of disk margin [12] allows simultaneous gain and phase variations. Although the disk margin accounts for LTI uncertainty described in the frequency domain, it can be reinterpreted in the time domain and generalized to nonlinear and time-varying plant and controller models. This has been used in [13] to assess disk margins of linear parameter-varying feedback systems.

In this paper, we present a method to train a neural network controller to maximize a reward subject to guaranteed disk margins. We leverage integral quadratic constraints to describe the disk margin and the neural network activation functions in time domain. We derive linear matrix inequality conditions for Lyapunov stability and translate them to semidefinite programs that enforce stability margins after each training step in the reinforcement learning process. A neural network trained through this method can be used in place of a traditional controller when stability margins are required. This allows improving an auxiliary performance metric, used as the reward in training, while satisfying the same robustness constraints as the traditional controller.

In Section II, we provide background on disk margins and our neural network model, and provide the problem statement. In Section III, we characterize the disk margin of the closed-loop system with a neural network controller. In Section IV, we present a method to train a neural network controller to maximize reward subject to the closed-loop satisfying a disk margin. In Section V, we demonstrate our method in simulation for a flexible rod on a cart.
