# REFERENCES

[1] D.
D.
Siljak, Decentralized control of complex systems.
Courier Corporation, 2011.
[2] W.
Ren and R.
W.
Beard, Distributed Consensus in Multi-Vehicle Cooperative Control.
New York, NY, USA: Springer, 2008.
[3] F.
Bullo, J.
Cort´es, and S.
Martinez, Distributed Control of Robotic Networks: A Mathematical Approach to Motion Coordination Algorithms.
Princeton, NJ, USA: Princeton University Press, 2009.
[4] T.
Tanaka and C.
Langbort, “The bounded real lemma for internally positive systems and H-infinity structured static state feedback,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
56, no.
9, pp.
2218–2223, May.
2011.
[5] A.
Rantzer, “Scalable control of positive systems,” European Journal of Control, vol.
24, pp.
72–80, Jul.
2015.
[6] J.
Anderson, J.
C.
Doyle, S.
H.
Low, and N.
Matni, “System level synthesis,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
47, pp.
364–393, 2019.
[7] D.
D.
Siljak, Large-scale dynamic systems : stability and structure.
Dover Publications, 2007.
[8] A.
Sootla, Y.
Zheng, and A.
Papachristodoulou, “On the existence of block-diagonal solutions to Lyapunov and H∞ Riccati inequalities,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
65, no.
7, pp.
3170–3175, Oct.
2019.
[9] L.
Vandenberghe, M.
S.
Andersen et al., “Chordal graphs and semidefinite optimization,” Foundations and Trends® in Optimization, vol.
1, no.
4, pp.
241–433, 2015.
[10] M.
C.
de Oliveira, J.
C.
Geromel, and J.
Bernussou, “Design of dynamic output feedback decentralized controllers via a separation procedure,” International Journal of Control, vol.
73, no.
5, pp.
371–381, Jan.
2000.
[11] M.
De Oliveira, J.
Geromel, and J.
Bernussou, “An LMI optimization approach to multiobjective controller design for discrete-time systems,” in Proc.
38th IEEE Conf.
Decis.
Control (CDC), 1999, pp.
3611–3616.
[12] M.
C.
de Oliveira, J.
Bernussou, and J.
C.
Geromel, “A new discrete-time robust stability condition,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
37, no.
4, pp.
261–265, Jul.
1999.
[13] M.
C.
de Oliveira, J.
C.
Geromel, and J.
Bernussou, “Extended $H _ { 2 }$ and H∞ norm characterizations and controller parametrizations for discretetime systems,” International journal of control, vol.
75, no.
9, pp.
666– 679, Jan.
2002.
[14] G.
Pipeleers, B.
Demeulenaere, J.
Swevers, and L.
Vandenberghe, “Extended LMI characterizations for stability and performance of linear systems,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
58, no.
7, pp.
510–518, Jul.
2009.
[15] Y.
