# V. SOLUTION METHOD

The problem of the inconsistency of an output ITOM arises because there is a non-negligible interval (we call it the action interval) between the input interaction instant — the instant when a sensor value is TRUE in the environment (the PS) — and the output interaction instant — the instant when the actuator value is realized in the environment (the PS). The action interval can be reduced by increasing the performance of the computer in the CS, but it can never be fully eliminated.

One way to solve this problem of inconsistency is the extrapolation of a measured sensor value from the input interaction instant to an estimated future value at the output interaction instant, before the computation of the result (setpoint) starts in the CS. These estimated values are then used to calculate the setpoint. This solution method requires that the future interaction instants are known a priori. An anytime algorithm [11] can be used in the computation in case the WCET (worst-case execution time) of an exact computation is unpredictably long. An anytime algorithm is an algorithm that consists of a root segment and an iteration segment that improves the result produced by the root segment. The iteration segment is repeatedly executed, improving the result until an apriori known deadline. In an event-triggered system, the output interaction instant depends on the input-data-dependent duration of the computation of the setpoint value. It is not possible to extrapolate the input data precisely before the computation starts in a purely event-triggered system because at the instant when the computation starts, the future output interaction instant is not yet known in an event-triggered system. Thus, the extrapolation error is higher in an eventtriggered system than in a time-triggered system. It depends on the concrete CPS if this higher extrapolation error can be tolerated, or not.

One well-known technique for this extrapolation is the Taylor expansion. In a time-triggered CPS the input data from the PS are acquired at the beginning of every new frame. It follows that a time-series of input data of the recent past is available when a new frame starts. This time series can be used to estimate the derivates of the different orders that are required in a Taylor expansion.
