# Related Work

Empirical friction models, including static and dynamic friction models, are proposed to capture the static and dynamic characteristics of friction. The most popular static friction model is the Stribeck model [20], which includes the phenomenon of Coulomb, Stribeck, and viscous friction. In the early 1990s, dynamic friction models, including the LuGre model [7] and the Maxwell-slip model [2], were proposed to capture the dynamic characteristics of friction, such as the hysteresis phenomenon of friction. Recently, precise modelings of friction are proposed considering the effect elasticity of joints [30], or the driving of the robot [14], load and temperature dependence [12].

Adaptively estimating robot dynamic parameters dates back to [24], where the authors propose a CE-based adaptive control design to estimate the dynamic parameters of a robot manipulator. Later on, the adaptive control design was extended to estimate the friction parameters of the robot, such as [5], [27], and [15], the authors proposed adaptive controllers to estimate the parameters of a dynamic and a static friction model, respectively. Similar techniques are also used in [21] where friction is considered as disturbance and a relay-based adaptive controller is proposed to reject the disturbance. Friction observer-based compensation is also proposed to estimate the friction parameters [11], [16], [13], [22], [19], the authors use static or dynamic models as nominal models and design linear Luenberger observer to dynamically estimate the parameters.

Learning residual models [23], [10] to account for a model mismatch to improve the hindsight performance of the estimated model has become popular recently. Different criteria for optimal excitation generation are proposed [26], [17], [25] to retrieve informative trajectories for increasing the robustness of parameter estimation.
