In recent related works, researchers have also investigated the problem of multi-UAV 3D inspection/coverage trajectory planning. For example, the work in [12] examines the cooperative inspection of a complex 3D structure using a UAV team, achieving complete coverage through the division of the infrastructure’s surface and assigning resulting areas to each UAV. The problem is then formulated as a problem of multiple traveling salesman. The main drawback of this work is that the trajectories of UAVs are generated offline in a centralized manner. In [13], the authors proposed a trajectory planner for a team of multiple UAVs based on the particle swarm optimization approach, which finds optimal trajectories using distributed full coverage and a dynamic fitness function. Finally, in [14], the authors propose a heat-equation-driven area coverage methodology for visual inspection of complex 3D structures using a multi-UAV system. The algorithm produces collision-free trajectories and UAV camera orientations. The computational inefficiency of the proposed methods in [13], [14] is one of their main drawbacks.

Motivated by the discussion mentioned above, this paper presents a planning algorithm to achieve complete 3D inspection of an object of interest using a multi-UAV system.

Specifically, the object of interest consists of a finite number of distinct 3D points on its surface that multiple quadrotor UAVs cooperatively inspect. It is assumed that all UAVs are identical, governed by the same dynamical model, and have similar sensing capabilities. Given these assumptions, a 3D inspection planning algorithm is proposed for a UAV team that determines each UAV’s distributed control inputs, with the resulting trajectories to allow complete inspection of the object of interest. The inspection trajectories are computed online by each UAV using only local measurements and information shared by its neighbors. The paper’s contributions are summarized as follows:

• We propose an online trajectory planning algorithm that enables the multi-UAV system to fully inspect largescale complex structures in 3D environment.   
• We design a distributed control scheme for each UAV that uses only local measurements, such as the UAV’s position and velocity, as well as its neighbors’ positions.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section II, we develop the system model based on our modeling assumptions, while the problem addressed by this work is outlined in Section III. In the sequel, Section IV discusses the details of the proposed 3D inspection approach, and Section V evaluates the proposed methodology. Finally, Section VI concludes the paper and discusses future work.
