In this paper, we propose a novel method for designing distributed controllers for discrete-time systems, leveraging both the continuous-time clique-wise decomposition method [15] and extended LMI techniques [12]–[14]. First, we present an explicit formulation of the clique-wise decomposition method based on our previous work on continuous-time systems [15]. Next, we present a new convex LMI formulation, and appliy it to $H _ { \infty }$ controller synthesis. Finally, the efficacy of the proposed methods is validated through numerical examples, demonstrating their superiority over existing methods [13], [15], [16].

The main contribution of this paper is the derivation of new, less conservative LMI conditions than existing cliquewise decomposition and extended LMI methods, which cannot be obtained through a straightforward combination of these approaches. Note that the formulations do not structurally restrict Lyapunov matrices, and such LMI formulations cannot be derived for continuous-time systems, to the best of authors’ knowledge.

The paper is organized as follows. We present the target system and problem formulation in Section II. Section III provides preliminary lemmas, including the discrete-time formulation of the clique-wise decomposition method [15]. Section IV presents our main result: the derivation of a new LMI condition. Our proposed method is extended to the $H _ { \infty }$ control in Section V. Numerical examples for $H _ { \infty }$ problem are given in Section VI.

Notations: $O _ { m \times n } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ denotes the $m \times n$ zero matrix. $\mathrm { d i a g } ( \dots , a _ { i } , \dots )$ denotes the diagonal matrix with the i th diagonal entry $a _ { i } \in \mathbb { R }$ . Similarly, blkdiag $\cdot ( \dots , A _ { i } , \dots )$ denotes the block-diagonal matrix with the i th matrix entry $A _ { i }$ . For $\ b X \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ of rank $\mathbf { \bar { \rho } } _ { X } ^ { \prime } ) = r < m , X ^ { \perp } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times m - r }$ represents the matrix satisfying ran $\mathfrak { s } [ X , X ^ { \bot } ] = m$ and $( X ^ { \bot } ) ^ { \top } X = O$ . Non-diagonal components of symmetric matrices are denoted as ∗ for brevity.
