# VI. NUMERICAL EXAMPLES

Here, we compare the numerical performances in $H _ { \infty }$ control presented in section V with the performance of centralized $H _ { \infty }$ control, which considers a complete graph ${ \mathcal { G } } .$ We computed the minimum value of γ, the upper bound of the $H _ { \infty }$ norm $T ( z )$ for the system (21) with a distributed controller $K \in S .$ , using (25), (26), (27), and (29), respectively. We consider scenarios that N agents are randomly partitioned into l groups, and these groups are arranged sequentially, with each group connected to its adjacent groups by a single edge. Here, we set the communication graphs within each group to be complete. The matrix A is generated by randomly assigning poles within the range [1, 5], each element of B is a random value in the range [0, 1], and $C = D = D _ { w } = B _ { w } = I _ { N }$ . The matrix E was constructed by choosing ${ \mathcal { Q } } _ { \mathcal { G } } ~ = ~ { \mathcal { Q } } _ { \mathcal { G } } ^ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ . The detailed simulation settings can be found in our GitHub repository [20].

The simulation results of 30 cases for $\begin{array} { r l } { ( N , l ) } & { { } = } \end{array}$ (10, 3), (40, 5) are shown in Fig. 2. The horizontal axis represents the sample number, and the vertical axis represents the ratio $\gamma _ { * } / \gamma _ { \mathrm { c e n } } .$ , where $\gamma _ { * }$ is the $H _ { \infty }$ norm of each methods, and $\gamma _ { \mathrm { c e n } }$ is of the centralized method. Therefore, a smaller $\gamma _ { * } / \gamma _ { \mathrm { c e n } }$ indicates a better result. From Fig. 2, it can be observed that proposed method outperforms existing methods, regardless of the scale of the system. These results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed approach.
