# I. INTRODUCTION

Neural network controllers trained through standard learning techniques show promise to overcome limitations of traditional control designs, but provide no guarantees on closedloop behavior. This has limited the use of neural networks in safety-critical applications, such as aerospace, where it is common for regulatory agencies to formulate controller robustness requirements in terms of stability margins, such as classical gain and phase margins [1].

Recent work on safe learning has focused on verification and synthesis of neural network controllers. References [2]– [4] verify asymptotic stability and find inner approximations to regions of attraction of feedback systems involving neural networks. Methods that synthesize neural network controllers and jointly certify closed-loop stability include [5]–[8]. These methods differ in the types of plants considered, with [6] considering linear time-invariant (LTI) plants, [7] addressing LTI plants with sector-bounded uncertainties, and [5], [8] studying LTI plants interconnected with uncertain blocks described by integral quadratic constraints.

Besides being used as controllers, neural networks have also been explored as system models. Reference [9] uses linear matrix inequality techniques to analyze stability of an equilibrium of a recurrent neural network. Reference [10] analyzes approximation capabilities, controllability, and observability of recurrent neural networks. These results can be used for verifying closed-loop properties of a neural network controller by modeling the interconnection of the controller and plant as a neural network. However, they are less amenable to neural network controller synthesis due to the structure imposed by the fixed plant parameters.
