# A. Notations

The following notations are adopted throughout this paper. Let R represent the set of all real numbers, and $\mathbb { R } _ { + }$ denote the subset of positive real numbers. The symbols $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\mathbb { R } ^ { \times m }$ are used to indicate n-dimensional real vectors and n× m real matrices, respectively. The cardinality of a set S is represented by |S|. The vectors ${ \bf 1 } _ { n }$ and ${ \bf 0 } _ { n }$ denote the n-dimensional vector of ones and zeros, respectively. The identity matrix of size $n \times n$ is denoted by $I _ { n } .$ . For any vector $h = [ h _ { 1 } , \ldots , h _ { n } ] ^ { \top } \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , the term $\mathrm { d i a g } ( h ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ refers to the diagonal matrix where h’s elements form the diagonal. We define $\mathrm { s i g } ( h ) ^ { \alpha } =$ $\mathrm { s i g n } ( h ) | h | ^ { \alpha }$ , for any $h \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ where $\alpha > 0$ . It is noteworthy that $d | h | ^ { \alpha + 1 } / d h = ( \alpha + 1 ) \mathrm { s i g } ( h ) ^ { \alpha }$ and $h \mathrm { s i g } ( h ) ^ { \alpha } = | h | ^ { \alpha + 1 }$ . We define $\mathrm { s i g n } ( h ) ~ = ~ [ \mathrm { s i g n } ( h _ { 1 } ) , \ldots , \mathrm { s i g n } ( h _ { n } ) ] ^ { \intercal } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\begin{array} { r c l r } { \mathrm { s i g } ( h ) ^ { \alpha } } & { = } & { [ \mathrm { s i g } ( h _ { 1 } ) ^ { \alpha } , \ldots , \mathrm { s i g } ( h _ { n } ) ^ { \alpha } ] ^ { \top } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n } } \end{array}$ . The norms $\| h \| _ { 1 } , \ \| h \| _ { 2 }$ , and $\| h \| _ { \infty }$ denote the 1-norm, 2-norm, and ∞-norm of $\textit { h } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , respectively. The Kronecker product is symbolized by ⊗, co¯ denotes the convex closure, and $B ( h , \delta )$ represents the open ball of radius δ centered at h. The symbol ≺ denotes an element-wise comparison operator. The gradient and Hessian of a function $f ( h , t )$ with respect to the vector h are denoted as $\nabla f ( h , t )$ and $\nabla ^ { 2 } f ( h , t )$ , respectively. The notation $\partial f ( h , t ) / \partial t$ is used to represent the partial derivative of $f ( h , t )$ with respect to t, while $\dot { f } ( h , t )$ denotes the time derivative of $f ( h , t )$ , defined explicitly as $\dot { f } ( h , t ) = \nabla f ( h , t ) \dot { h } + \partial f ( h , t ) / \partial t$ .
