# B. Iterative Convex Method

Optimization problems with ℓ1-norm cost can be equivalently characterized with linear cost and inequalities containing the original cost vector. If we perform this transformation and substitute (10) and (12) into (8) with $p = 1$ , we obtain

$$
\begin{array}{l} \min _ {\theta} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N} t _ {k}, \\ \text { s.t. } \quad t _ {k} \geq \tilde {z} _ {k}, \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \}, \tag {13} \\ t _ {k} \geq - (\tilde {z} _ {k}), \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \}, \\ W = \Psi S _ {u u} ^ {- 1} \Psi^ {\top}, \\ S \succ 0, \\ \end{array}
$$

where $\begin{array} { r l r } { t _ { k } } & { { } \in } & { \mathbb { R } } \end{array}$ for $\begin{array} { r l r } { k } & { { } \in } & { \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N \} } \end{array}$ and $W \in$ ${ \mathbb { R } } ^ { ( n _ { \phi } + 1 ) \ddot { \times } ( n _ { \phi } + 1 ) }$ are auxiliary variables, and in which

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {z} _ {k} := \tilde {Q} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, \theta) - \left(r _ {k} + \gamma \left(V ^ {\bar {\pi}} (x _ {k + 1}) + T \right. \right. \\ + \left.\left[\begin{array}{c}\phi (x _ {k + 1})\\1\end{array}\right] ^ {\top} (\Omega + W) \left[\begin{array}{c}\phi (x _ {k + 1})\\1\end{array}\right]\right)\left. \right). \\ \end{array}
$$

This optimization problem has a cost function that is linear in the design variables, linear matrix inequality constraints, along with a single matrix equality constraint $W =$ $\bar { \boldsymbol { \mu } } \boldsymbol { S } _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \boldsymbol { \Psi } ^ { \top }$ , which is nonlinear in the design variables.

To make the optimization problem convex, we fix the optimization variables that appear nonlinearly in (13) by setting W to arbitrary feasible values $\hat { \Psi } , \ \hat { S } _ { u u }$ . Additionally, we propose fixing the variable Ω to feasible values $\hat { S } _ { x x }$ and $\hat { R } _ { x } .$ even though Ω appears linearly in the optimization problem. While this step is not required for convexity, empirical results suggest it often leads to improved solutions.

After these adjustments, the optimization problem becomes

$$\min _ {\theta} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N} t _ {k},\text { s.t. } \quad t _ {k} \geq \tilde {z} _ {k}, \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \},t _ {k} \geq - \left(\tilde {z} _ {k}\right), \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \}, \tag {14}W = \hat {\Psi} \hat {S} _ {u u} ^ {- 1} \hat {\Psi} ^ {\top},
\Omega = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} - \hat {S} _ {x x} & \frac {1}{2} \hat {R} _ {x} \\ \frac {1}{2} \hat {R} _ {x} ^ {\top} & 0 \end{array} \right],
S \succ 0.$$
