# IV. TEMPORAL CONSISTENCY OF AN INFORMATION ITEM(ITOM)

Let us assume that the CS observes with its sensors relevant parts of the state of the PS at the beginning a frame, executes a control algorithm (that uses these sensor readings) during the frame and outputs the result, a new setpoint, to an actuator in the PS at the beginning of the next frame. Assume that a frame has a duration of one second.

The meaning of the bit-pattern acquired by the sensor is determined by the design of the sensor and the physical position of the sensor in the PS. The sensors write these bitpatterns and the observation instants into memory locations of the CS that carry variable names. From the point of view of the CS algorithm, it is sufficient for the variable names in the CS to be bare (ungrounded) names that have as referents the cited memory locations with the stored values. The grounding of a variable name is not required for the execution of an algorithm in the CS. It is, however, helpful to a human engineer who wants to understand the functions of an algorithm. Understanding advances if a variable name of the CS is grounded in the PS and the bit-pattern acquired by a sensor is transformed to a value in a standardized dimension.

Let us now assume that the CS performs the following calculations of the brake force and the time it takes the car to stop before the rock, using the speed ITOM and the distance ITOM introduced in Section III under the simplifying assumption, that the latency of the sensors and actuators can be neglected:

TABLE V: CS Calculations

<table><tr><td>At</td><td>Item</td><td>Formula</td><td>Dimension Check</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td>10:59:56:00</td><td>Brake force</td><td> $v^{2}/2s = -d$ </td><td> $[m^{2}/sec^{2}]/[m] = [m/sec^{2}]$ </td><td>-625/200 = -3.12  $[m/sec^{2}]$ </td></tr><tr><td>10:59:56:00</td><td>Time to stop</td><td> $v/d = t$ </td><td> $[m/sec]/[m/sec^{2}] = [sec]$ </td><td>25/3.12 = 8[sec]</td></tr></table>

The result ITOM in Table VI informs about the results of these calculations.

TABLE VI: Result ITOM

<table><tr><td>At 10:59:56</td><td>the brake force that must be applied to stop the car before the rock</td><td>is</td><td>-3.125 $[m/sec^{2}]$ </td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Term_1</td><td>Term_2</td><td>Term_3</td><td>Term_4</td></tr></table>
