# C. Information Item

An information item (abbreviated ITOM) is the sense (the idea or intention) of a natural language proposition that contains multiple terms and temporal parameters that denote the time when the proposition is valid.

A term can be a data item or an information item (an ITOM). ITOMs are thus bootstrapped, starting with multiple data items. We call an ITOM with data items only a basic ITOM. A basic ITOM can be a term in a further ITOM. A proposition provides information — an explanation — about an entity in the PS if at least one of the data items deployed in an ITOM is grounded in the PS.

A typical natural language proposition consists of three terms, a subject, a predicate, and an object that is uttered at a particular instant.

$$< \text { subject term } > < \text { predicate term } > < \text { object term } >$$

As explained before, a term can be a data item or an ITOM. In a natural language proposition, the predicate of a proposition discloses the timing of the relation by the use of tense (in German, the predicate is called a Zeitwort). Thus, the predicate term establishes a time-sensitive link, a timed relation, between the subject term and the object term. There are two temporal aspects to consider in a natural language proposition: the instant of utterance and the tense of the predicate. In order to make the temporal aspects of a natural language proposition more precise, we introduce a validity time (v-time) as part of the ITOM. The validity-time (v-time) is an instant denoted by a single timestamp if the ITOM informs about an event (e.g., an observation or a setpoint) or an interval denoted by two timestamps if the ITOM is valid during an interval. An ITOM has thus the following form

$$< \text { v - time } > < \text { subject term } > < \text { predicate term } > < \text { object term } >.$$

In contrast to data items, which are mostly static, information ITOMS are mostly dynamic and require a v-time to denote the temporal validity of the ITOM.

An ITOM establishes timed links among its multiple terms in the mind of the receiver and thus possibly extends the conceptual landscape of the receiver. If these links are already present in the conceptual landscape of the receiver, then the received ITOM is not new to this receiver (but may be new to another receiver). The sense of an ITOM can only be understood by a receiver if all terms that are part of the ITOM are familiar to the receiver.
