# C. Convex relaxation

Consider again the optimization problem in (8) with $p = 1$ and $\tilde { Q }$ parametrized according to (10). A convex relaxation of this problem is given by the optimization problem

$$\min _ {\theta} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N} t _ {k}\text { s.t. } \quad t _ {k} \geq \tilde {z} _ {k}, \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \},t _ {k} \geq - \left(\tilde {z} _ {k}\right), \quad k \in \{0, 1, \dots , N \}, \tag {15}
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} W & \Psi \\ \Psi^ {\top} & S _ {u u} \end{array} \right] \succeq 0,
S \succ 0.$$

We obtain this relaxation by replacing the equality constraint $W = \Psi S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi ^ { \top }$ by the inequality constraint $\mathbf { \bar { \Psi } } \mathbf { \Psi } \mathbf { \succeq } \Psi S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi ^ { \top } \mathbf { \Psi }$ . Afterward, since $S \ \succ \ 0$ implies that $S _ { u u } ~ \succ ~ 0 ,$ , we can apply the Schur complement. We obtain the equivalent matrix inequality included as a constraint in (15) which is linear in the design parameters. The resulting relaxed optimization problem (15) is a (convex) semidefinite programming (SDP) problem, as the cost is linear in the design variables and the constraints are LMIs. Furthermore, it is a relaxation of (13) since the cost function is unchanged and the feasible domain is (slightly) expanded.

The convex relaxation provides guaranteed lower and upper bounds on the optimal cost. The lower bound arises because the relaxed optimal cost can never exceed the original, as the relaxation expands the feasible set. Moreover, the relaxed solution for θ is feasible for the original problem (13) if we set $W = \Psi S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi ^ { \top }$ , allowing us to evaluate an upper bound. If the bounds are tight, then the relaxed solution is also optimal for the original problem.

In order to make the relaxation less conservative, we can add the matrix inequality

$$S _ {x x} \succ W _ {1 1}, \tag {16}$$

where $W _ { 1 1 } \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { \phi } \times n _ { \phi } }$ is the top left submatrix of W . This matrix inequality follows from the original non-relaxed optimization problem by taking the Schur complement of S. The introduction of the matrix inequality (16) constrains W from above, potentially decreasing the gap between W and $\Psi S _ { u u } ^ { - 1 } \Psi$ .
