# A. PS model of time

The applicable model of time, the physical real-time, in the PS, is based on Newtonian physics, which considers time to be an absolute quantity that progresses continuously and autonomously from the past to the future. We represent the progress of time metaphorically by a directed timeline and call a cut of the timeline an instant. A digital clock partitions the timeline by its ticks (instants) into a sequence of uniformly numbered sections, the granules of the clock, where each granule is delimited by two ticks of the clock, the start tick of the granule and the start tick of the following granule. A timestamp of an instant is the number of the start tick that occurred immediately before the instant. The starting moment for the numbering of the granules, measured in seconds, is the epoch (in the Coordinated Universal Time Standard (UTC) the epoch is midnight of Jan. 1, 1970). An interval is a section of the timeline between the start instant of the interval and the termination instant of the interval. A duration is the length of an interval expressed in the number of contained clock granules. We call the interval that is of relevance for our considerations the Interval of Discourse (IoD). If a property of an entity of the PS does not change during the IoD, we call the property static, otherwise dynamic. In the real world, most properties are dynamic. A happening that occurs during an interval that is shorter than the granule of the clock is called an event. The timestamp of the event is the start tick of the clock granule that preceded the event. (For a more detailed discussion on time measurement with digital clocks, see [5]).
