Since $P ^ { - 1 } \succ O , X P ^ { - 1 } X ^ { \top }$ is a positive definite Lyapunov matrix. Therefore, $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathrm { a l l } }$ and $\hat { \kappa } _ { s , \mathrm { e x t } } \subset { \kappa } _ { \mathrm { a l l } }$ hold.

The proof of $\kappa _ { \mathcal { S } } \cup \kappa _ { \mathrm { e x t } } \subset \hat { \kappa } _ { \mathcal { S } , \mathrm { e x t } }$ is omitted, as it follows directly from the next theorem.

Next, the following Theorem gives our main result, convexly characterized solution to Problem 1. This theorem is derived as a convex relaxation of Lemma 6.

Theorem 1: Let

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {K} _ {\mathcal {S}, \text { ext }} = \left\{K = (E ^ {\top} E) ^ {- 1} E ^ {\top} \tilde {Z} \tilde {G} ^ {- 1} E \in \mathcal {S}: \exists \tilde {Q} \succ O \right. \\ \tilde {Z} = \operatorname{blkdiag} \left(\tilde {Z} _ {1}, \dots \tilde {Z} _ {q}\right), \\ \tilde {G} = \operatorname{blkdiag} \left(\tilde {G} _ {1}, \dots \tilde {G} _ {q}\right), \\ \rho \in \mathbb {R}, \eta > 0 \text { s.t. } \\ \Psi (\tilde {G}, \tilde {Q}, \tilde {Z}) + \rho W \succ O, \\ \tilde {G} ^ {\top} U + U \tilde {G} \succeq \eta U \} \tag {18} \\ \end{array}
$$

with $W , U$ in (9) and Ψ in (12). Then, $\mathcal { K } _ { S } \cup \mathcal { K } _ { \mathrm { e x t } } \subset \mathcal { K } _ { S , \mathrm { e x t } } \subset$ $\kappa _ { \mathrm { a l l } }$ holds.

Proof: First, we prove $\kappa _ { S , \mathrm { e x t } } \subset \hat { \mathcal { K } } _ { S , \mathrm { e x t } }$ to show $\mathcal { K } _ { S , \mathrm { e x t } } \subset$ $\kappa _ { \mathrm { a l l } }$ . Consider $K = ( \bar { E } ^ { \top } E ) ^ { - 1 } E ^ { \top } \tilde { Z } \tilde { G } ^ { - 1 } E \in \mathcal { K } _ { \mathcal { S } , \mathrm { e x t } }$ t. We first demonstrate the nonsingularity of $\tilde { G }$ to show that K can be constructed. From the upper-left block-diagonal element of $\Psi + \rho W \succ O$ in (18), we obtain

$$
\begin{array}{l} O \prec \tilde {Q} \prec \tilde {G} + \tilde {G} ^ {\top} + \rho U \\ \preceq \tilde {G} + \tilde {G} ^ {\top} + | \rho | / \eta (\tilde {G} ^ {\top} U + U \tilde {G}) \\ = (| \rho | / \eta U + I) \tilde {G} + \tilde {G} ^ {\top} (| \rho | / \eta U + I), \\ \end{array}
$$

which proves the nonsingularity of ${ \tilde { G } } ,$ , and thus of $\tilde { H }$ in (13). Then from the LMI conditions in (18),
