$$f (t _ {1}) = f (t _ {0}) + \frac {f ^ {\prime} (t _ {0})}{1 !} (t _ {1} - t _ {0}) + \frac {f ^ {\prime \prime} (t _ {0})}{2 !} (t _ {1} - t _ {0}) ^ {2} + \dots \tag {1}$$

Let us now look, in order to get the point across, to our example, where the car moves with a constant speed of 25 m/sec towards the rock. In this example the Taylor expansion stops at the first order derivative. The expansion leads to a distance of the car to the rock of 75 m at the beginning of the frame 10:59:57.

The following new distance ITOM contains this adjusted distance of 75 m at 10:59:57

TABLE VII: New Distance ITOM

<table><tr><td>At 10:59:57</td><td>the car with a speed of 25m/sec</td><td>is distant from the rock</td><td>75 m.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Term_1</td><td>Term_2</td><td>Term_3</td><td>Term_4</td></tr></table>

The speed ITOM of Section III is valid during the interval 10:59:55 to 10:59:57, i.e., it is still valid at the instant 10:59:57. The extrapolated distance ITOM for the instant at the start of 10:59:57 is used to calculate (during the frame starting at 10:59:56) the brake force that is applied to the brakes in the PS at 10:59:57. The new result ITOM is temporally consistent because all constituent terms are valid at 10:59:57.

TABLE VIII: New CS Calculations

<table><tr><td>At</td><td>Item</td><td>Formula</td><td>Dimension Check</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td>10:59:57</td><td>Brake force</td><td> $v^{2}/2s = -d$ </td><td> $[m^{2}/sec^{2}]/[m] = [m/sec^{2}]$ </td><td>-625/150= -4.167 $[m/sec^{2}]$ </td></tr><tr><td>10:59:57</td><td>Time to stop</td><td> $v/d = t$ </td><td> $[m/sec]/[m/sec^{2}] = [sec]$ </td><td>25/4.167= 6[sec]</td></tr></table>

TABLE IX: New Result ITOM

<table><tr><td>At 10:59:57</td><td>the brake force that must be applied to stop the car before the rock</td><td>is</td><td>-4.167 [ $m/sec^2$ ]</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Term_1</td><td>Term_2</td><td>Term_3</td><td>Term_4</td></tr></table>

A brake force of 4.167 [m/sec2] applied at the start of frame 10:59:57 brings the car to a stop before the rock (green line in Fig. 3). The calculations have been performed under the simplifying assumption that the latencies of the sensors and the actuators can be neglected.
