# A. Data Item in the Real World (the PS)

In the real world, a data item is a symbol where the signifier is a physical pattern, e.g., a sequence of letters, an acoustic utterance, or a gesture, and the signified is the meaning that is assigned to this pattern by a human.

We distinguish between three different signifiers in a realworld communication act: 1) Proper name, 2) Literal, and 3) Natural Language Word.

1) Proper Name as Signifier: A proper name acquires its meaning by designating a particular entity, e.g., a person, a thing, a construct, or a memory location in a computer, as its referent (i.e., the entity that it refers to) [9].

Example: In a computer program, the name of the variable xyz is a signifier that denotes a memory location in the computer as its signified (as its referent). ¶

Since the signifier xyz has no meaning outside its limited context of the computer program, it is called a bare name.

There is a possible second function of a name, which is to provide an explanation of the named (the referent) by linking the referent to a real-world concept [10, p.26].

Example: The blue van from the garage. The first function of this phrase is to designate a particular car, while the second function is to explain the type and place of the car. ¶

A signifier that is used as a name and has a meaning in the real world is called a grounded name. Grounding a name refers to the process of establishing a link between a bare name in the CS and an entity in the PS [8].

It is important to separate these two functions of a name from each other and to be aware when a name does not provide the second function of explaining. Bare names are timeless universals that are widely deployed in formal systems. While the meaning of a bare name in a formal system is static, the meaning of a grounded name can change when the referred real-world entity has changing properties.

2) Literal as Signifier: A literal is a pattern where, in a given context, the meaning of the pattern, the signified, can be derived from the gestalt of the pattern, the signifier. Depending on the cultural context, different signifiers can have the same meaning (see Fig. 1). The meaning of literals is always timeless and therefore static. Literals are widely used to denote constant numeric values.

Example: If the agreed context is binary numbers, the signifier 1001 means the numeric value 9, expressed in the western Arabic numeral system. ¶
