# B. CS model of time

The model of time in the CS is not continuous but discrete. In a discrete model, real-time is partitioned into a sequence of intervals — we call such an interval a computation-interval — where a computation-interval starts at an interaction instant, i.e., an instant where the PS and the CS exchange information, and terminates at the following interaction instant. A change of real-time takes place in the CS only at an interaction instant. During a computation interval, the real-time in the CS does not advance. The reason for this discrete model of time lies in the nature of mathematical and logic operations that are executed by the computer during a quasi-timeless computation-interval. The variables and operators of mathematics and logic are timeless universals [6, Chapter 9]. The result of the execution of the algorithm 3+4 = 7 does not depend on any specific duration, any specific time of execution, or the place of execution. The only timing issue in the CS system concerns the duration of the execution time of an algorithm, but this timing issue does not affect the formal correctness of an algorithm. If a result (a new setpoint) must be provided to the PS at a particular interaction instant, the chosen computer must be performant enough to terminate the execution of the algorithms before this particular interaction instant1. A discrete CS model of time, in which real-time progresses stepwise, is also used in discrete event simulations by introducing the notion of an event calendar [7].
