# I. INTRODUCTION

A cyber-physical system (CPS) consists of two interacting subsystems: a physical system (PS), e.g., a mechanical machine that operates in the real world, and a controlling computer system, the cyber-system (CS) that operates in cyberspace and controls the operation of the PS. Examples of a CPS are an industrial production system, an autonomous vehicle, a smart grid, or a smart building. A temporal inconsistency can arise in a CPS when there is a non-negligible delay between the instant when a sensor value is acquired from the environment (the PS) and the instant when a setpoint, based on this sensor value, is used in the environment of the CS, (the PS). A temporally inconsistent setpoint produced by the CS can lead to a serious, possibly catastrophic, failure in the PS.

The objective of this paper is to provide a solution to the problem of temporal inconsistency of an output information item, e.g., an inconsistent setpoint, produced by the CS.

The problem of temporal consistency of real-time information has already been addressed more than 25 years ago, particularly in the context of databases, by Xiong et al. [1] and later by Kuo and Mok [2] who states on p.1241: "External consistency requirements keep real-time databases up-to-date; temporal consistency requirements ensure that multiple data objects read by a transaction are compatible in the currency of their data." Our notion of temporal consistency covers both aspects: the up-to-date aspect and the compatibility aspect. In a recent extensive literature survey on Data Quality Challenges in Large Scale Cyber-Physical Systems, Alwan et al. [3] assert that further research is required to address the challenge of timeliness and temporal consistency in cyber-physical systems.

The foundation of this paper is the Data, Information and Time (DIT) model [4] that makes a clear distinction between a data item and an information item. In the real world, a data item is a symbol, where the signifier of the symbol is an acoustic or visual pattern (e.g., a word), and the signified is the meaning of this pattern in the mind of a human. An information item is the sense of a natural language proposition that consists of multiple linked data items and a timing parameter that tells when the information item is valid.
