# B. Data Item in Cyberspace (the CS)

In cyberspace, a data item is a symbol where the signifier is a bit pattern, e.g., a variable name, and the signified is another bit pattern that is designated, indirectly or directly, by the signifier.

We distinguish between three different signifiers in the CS: 1) Bare variable name, 2) Literal, or 3) Meaningful variable name.

1) Bare variable name as Signifier: The sole function of a bare variable name is to identify a referent in the CS, i.e., a memory location in the computer, that houses another bit pattern called the value denoted by the signifier. A bare variable name has no meaning outside the CS. Values, i.e., the signified bit-patterns, considered in isolation without an explanation that informs about the context (e.g., entity, property, time, and space), are sufficient to provide an input to a computation but do not make sense to a human. A sequence of timeless mathematical and/or logical operations of a computer that manipulate input bit-patterns (values) and produce result bitpatterns is called an algorithm. Since a particular mathematical or logical operation requires an appropriate structure of the accessed bit-patterns, a type is assigned to the bit-pattern that is used in a computation. The type informs about the structure of the bit-pattern and makes it possible for a compiler to establish the compatibility between the bit-pattern and the operations performed with this bit-pattern.

2) Literal as Signifier: A literal is a bit-pattern that denotes a specific value (a constant) that is derived from the gestalt of the bit-pattern in the given context.   
3) Meaningful variable name as Signifier: A variable name that is used in the CS and has a meaning in the PS establishes a link between the bit-pattern (value) in the CS and an entity in the PS. It thus provides an explanation of the value and brings the temporal aspects of the PS into play. In a database, the database schema provides the links between the values stored in the database (in the CS) and the real-world entities and their properties in the PS [4, pp. 30-35].

Example: Let us assume that a CS variable with the meaningful name speed has a value of 25. This variable implies the proposition

speed is 25.

at the instant of uttering the ITOM (or accessing a speed sensor). In the PS, the word speed is associated with the dimension [m/sec]. This proposition has thus two temporal aspects, the notion of speed and the instant of utterance (or the instant of sensing the speed). ¶

Such a meaningful variable name is an instance of an information item (ITOM), which is discussed below.
