# I. INTRODUCTION

Reinforcement learning (RL) has recently received significant attention due to excellent results in many application domains [1]. The data-driven nature of RL methods enables optimal policy discovery, even without explicit models.

Q-learning, a common RL method, estimates the so-called quality of an action-state pair, representing the expected cumulative reward of choosing an action given a state. This quality learning uses the temporal difference error to update the Q-values iteratively and can be performed online or batch-wise. Q-learning in its most basic form tends to have slow convergence to the optimal policy, due to having to visit every state and action multiple times. Besides, it often requires the discretization of uncountable state and control spaces, which scales poorly as the dimension of the state space increases. To improve convergence speed and circumvent the curse of dimensionality, one can parameterize the Q-function using basis functions [2], [3], [4].

This paper aims to accelerate Q-function convergence through convex optimization. Our approach consists of two key assumptions. First, the Q-function is chosen to be linear in the parameters and quadratic in a set of selected basis functions in the state, as well as quadratic in the

The research is carried out as part of the ITEA4 20216 ASIMOV project. The ASIMOV activities are supported by the Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research TNO and the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate (project number: AI211006). The research leading to these results is partially funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) within the project ASIMOV-D under grant agreement No. 01IS21022G [DLR], based on a decision of the German Bundestag.

The authors are with the Control Systems Technology Section, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Eindhoven University of Technology, the Netherlands. Emails:{j.s.v.hulst, m.heemels, d.antunes}@tue.nl
