Several improved methods based on Line-of-Sight (LOS) guidance laws have been utilized in various scenarios. A prescribed-time Extended State Observer (PTESO) guidance law has been introduced for path tracking of underactuated Unmanned Surface Vehicles (USVs) navigating under time-varying ocean current conditions (Yu et al., 2024). A novel Indirect Adaptive Disturbance Observer (IADO)- based LOS guidance law has been presented for path following of underactuated AUVs in the presence of timevarying ocean currents (Du et al., 2023) . R. Rout and R. Cui introduce a modified LOS guidance law and an adaptive Neural Network (NN) controller for underactuated marine vehicles under uncertainties and constraints(Rout et al., 2020). Y. Xiu presents a finite-time sideslip differentiator based LOS guidance method for robust path following of snake robots (Xiu et al., 2023). S. Zhang proposes two cooperative guidance schemes with impact angle and time constraints for multiple missiles cooperatively intercepting a maneuvering target in the presence or absence of a leader missile (Zhang et al., 2021).

The modified LOS guidance law discussed above assume a condition of the low time-varying sideslip angle(usually no more than 5 degrees per second), which may not be suitable to the AUV with high mobility, such as the Autonomous Underwater Helicopter (AUH). The AUH is a novel disk-type AUV equipped with features of fixed point hovering, zero-radius turning, and resistance to water flow disturbance(Wang et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2022; Du et al., 2024). When the AUH follows a curved path, significant sideslip angle occurs (up to 50 degrees per second) with the classical ELOS guidance law in the transient phase. Therefore, utilizing the ELOS guidance law for path following with the AUH is not suitable.

Hence, this paper proposed an Improved Extended-stateobserver based Line-of-Sight (IELOS) guidance law for path following of the AUH, especially improving the estimation of the significant time-varying sideslip angle. The main contributions of this paper are outlined as follows:
