# D. Control Performance in Flight Tests

We compare SSML-AC approach with four baselines:

1) Vanilla-NN: Pretraining DNN without meta-learning.   
2) SSML-AC Last Layer (SSML-AC-LL): Adapt only the last layer linear coefficient of DNN, similar with Neural-Fly [5].   
3) Incremental Nonlinear Dynamic Inversion (INDI) [18].   
4) PID controller with nominal quadrotor model.

The tracking reference trajectory is a 1.2m long and 1.0m wide figure-8 trajectory, repeated 3 times.

The disturbance prediction and tracking performance is shown in Fig. 4. The experiment results show that the PID controller exhibits poor tracking performance due to the lack of wind disturbance feedforward compensation. The INDI controller estimates disturbances from IMU and motion capture system feedback, but applies a low-pass filter to disturbance estimation, leadning to phase delays and loss of high-frequency disturbance details, as shown in the second row of Fig. 4. For the vanilla-NN model, since the wind disturbance is dependent on the position of the drone, without meta-learning, it only learns an average disturbance prediction, lacking parameter flexibility in online adaptation.

In contrast, SSML-AC and SSML-AC-LL outperform all other baselines in both disturbance prediction and tracking accuracy, illustrating the importance of meta-learning in pretraining stage. Furthermore, SSML-AC further improves disturbance prediction accuracy and tracking performance, demonstrating the advantage of full-network adaptation. Repeated experiments show that both SSML-AC and SSML-AC-LL have lower variance than other baselines, highlighting the role of accurate disturbance representation in improving the consistency and robustness of online adaptation.

Although SSML-AC significantly outperforms other baselines, its performance is limited by the underactuated nature of quadrotor systems, particularly due to the response speed of the attitude control loop. Additionaly, the complex interaction between wind disturbances and the propellers affects the torque output of the quadrotor, which SSML-AC cannot fully compensate for.
