Expanding on these foundations, this paper proposes an adaptive control strategy designed to ensure leader-following formation consensus while effectively managing collision and obstacle avoidance using potential functions. This strategy uniquely integrates solutions to these challenges, providing a robust framework for heterogeneous MAS with fixed topologies and external disturbances. The proposed method offers a unified approach, addressing the limitations of previous research by incorporating all the critical features simultaneously. The rest of the paper is structured as follows:

Section II which is the problem formulation defines the MAS dynamics and leader-following framework. The methodology presented in Section III describes the proposed adaptive control protocol and neural network-based learning for managing nonlinear dynamics and disturbances. The main results in Section IV proves the stability and convergence of the control laws. Section V provides a numerical example that demonstrates the application of the control strategy in a multi-agent leader-follower formation scenario. Section VI summarizes the research contributions and potential future applications.

Notations: Throughout the paper, absolute value is denoted by $| \cdot | ;$ the Euclidean norm of a vector by $\| \cdot \| ;$ the Frobenius norm of a matrix by $\Vert \cdot \Vert _ { F } ;$ the trace of a matrix by $\operatorname { t r } \{ \cdot \}$ ; and the set of singular values of a matrix by $\sigma ( \cdot )$ , with $\bar { \sigma } ( \cdot )$ and $\underline { { \sigma } } ( \cdot )$ representing the maximum and minimum singular values, respectively. Other notations will be introduced in the text at their first appearance.
