# I. INTRODUCTION

Real-time adaptive control plays a pivotal role in enabling robots to operate in dynamic and complex environments, including drones in wind [1], manipulators with unknown objects [2], and quadrupeds on uneven terrains [3].

Adaptive control in general focuses on handling parametric uncertainties with theoretical stability guarantees, where the model structure of the disturbance is assumed to be known, but a set of parameters in the given model is unknown. In particular, recent works have leveraged meta-learning to pretrain nonlinear features using offline data. Once these nonlinear features are learned, various adaptive control algorithms, such as direct adaptive control [4], composite adaptive control [5] and model reference adaptive control [6] can be employed to adapt the linear coefficients. However, those works are fundamentally limited by the linear parameterization of model uncertainties, and do not fully unleash the capability of DNNs in online adaptation.

On the other hand, recent works in robot learning and model-based reinforcement learning have demonstrated the effectiveness of meta-learning-based full DNN adaptation The authors are with the Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, USA. {guanqihe, ychoudha, guanyas}@andrew.cmu.edu

1 Experimental videos are in project website: https://sites.google.com/view/ssml-ac-project

We would like to express our gratitude to Prof. Wennie Tabib at Resilient Intelligent Systems Lab for providing the testing field and equipment. Special thanks to Chaoyi Pan for providing the crazyflie hardware codebase and for engaging in many insightful discussions.

[7], [8]. However, these works lack the necessary theoretical stability analysis, posing challenges in stability and robustness.
