$$
\operatorname{fhan} \left(v _ {1}, v _ {2}, r, h\right) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} d = r h ^ {2} \\ a _ {0} = h v _ {2} \\ y = v _ {1} + a _ {0} \\ a _ {1} = \sqrt {d (d + 8 | y |)} \\ a _ {2} = a _ {0} + \operatorname{sign} (y) \left(a _ {1} - d\right) / 2 \\ a = \left(a _ {0} + y\right) \operatorname{fsg} (y, d) + a _ {2} (1 - \operatorname{fsg} (y, d)) \\ \operatorname{fhan} = - r (a / b) \operatorname{fsg} (a, d) \\ \quad - r \operatorname{sign} (a) (1 - \operatorname{fsg} (a, d)) \end{array} \right.
$$

(10)

For second-order tracking differentiator, all solutions of the above formula (in Filippov sense) are bounded and satisfied

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l}\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} v _ {1} (t) = 0\\\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} v _ {2} (t) = 0\end{array}\right. \tag {11}
$$

where, $, v _ { 1 } = \beta ^ { * } \left( t \right) - \hat { \beta } \left( t \right) , \beta ^ { * } \left( t \right)$ is the tracking value of the ${ \hat { \beta } } .$ . Hence, equation (11) can be deprived to lim $\beta ^ { * } \left( t \right) = \hat { \beta } \left( t \right)$ . ??→∞

In equation(10), $r > 0$ represents the speed factor of the tracking diferentiator, with a larger ?? indicating that the value $\beta ^ { * }$ can track the $\hat { \beta }$ more rapidly. The parameter ℎ serves as a filtering factor for the tracking diferentiator, when the input signal is contaminated with noise, an appropriate ℎ ensures a clean, accurate signal.

The convergence time and effectiveness of the observer in the reduced-order ESO are significantly impacted by the bandwidth parameter ??, where lower bandwidth ?? results in poor observer performance. However, environmental disturbance, sensor sampling frequency, and accuracy constraints often limit the bandwidth value ?? maintaining at a low level in practical operations, Consequently, the estimation $\hat { \beta }$ may not accurately track the actual value of $\beta ,$ , and in severe cases, the estimate may exceed the actual value. Given that the sideslip angle $\beta$ should fall within the range of −?? to ??, the anti-saturation controller introduced here aims to confine the estimated value $\hat { \beta }$ avoiding system instability due to abnormal outliers. The anti-saturation controller is expressed as (Chen et al., 2022):

$$
\beta_ {s a t} = \operatorname{sat} \left(\beta^ {*}\right) = \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} \beta_ {\mathrm{m}} \operatorname{sign} \left(\beta^ {*}\right) & \left| \beta^ {*} \right| \geq \beta_ {\mathrm{m}} \\ \beta^ {*} & \left| \beta^ {*} \right| <   \beta_ {m} \end{array} \right. \tag {12}
$$

where sat (⋅) and sign (⋅) represent the saturation and unit sign function, respectively. $\beta _ { m }$ denotes the known magnitude of the saturation limit and $\beta _ { m } = \pi$ .
