# 1) Introduction

This set of notes describes the global stability notions needed in (robust) adaptive control and develops the mathematical tools that are used for the proof of such stability properties.

Global stability notions and properties are presented in detail in standard textbooks like [9]. For example, notions like Global Attractivity, Lyapunov stability, Global Asymptotic Stability for input-free systems and the notion of Input-to-State Stability for systems with inputs, are explained in detail in [9]. However, all these notions deal with the evolution of the full state of the closed-loop system, which in the case of adaptive control incorporates both the state of the plant and the state of the parameter estimator (as well as possibly the states of a state observer and of filters for the parameter estimator). In adaptive control, the goal of asymptotic performance is the regulation of the full state (or of an output mapping) of the plant, without having additional requirements (except for boundedness) of the parameter estimator. The state of the plant is thus to be regarded as an output of the overall closed-loop adaptive system. Therefore, all the stability notions given in [9] have to be extended to the case of a system with an output, and such extensions are provided in this document. Another issue that plays important role in adaptive control is the fact that we need to have stability properties that do not show convergence to a point or to a manifold but rather show convergence to a neighborhood of a point or a manifold. Furthermore, it is also necessary to know how large this neighborhood is. This implies the use of practical stability properties.
