# 3) Proving Stability Properties for Input-Free Systems

The most convenient way of proving stability properties is by using Lyapunov-like functions. In this section, we focus on providing sufficient Lyapunov-like conditions for proving the output stability properties that were described above.

A requirement of all stability properties is the property of forward completeness. The following theorem provides the means of proving forward completeness for system (1). It is a special case of Theorem 1 in [7].

Theorem 1: Let $H \in C ^ { 1 } \left( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } \right)$ be a function for which there exist constants $c , \sigma \geq 0$ such that the following inequality holds for all $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ :

$$\dot {H} (x) = \nabla H (x) f (x) \leq c H (x) + \sigma \tag {6}$$

Furthermore, for each $\left\{ H ( x ) : x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right\}$ define the set

$$S _ {r} = \left\{x \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}: H (x) \leq r \right\} \tag {7}$$

and suppose that $f \left( S _ { r } \right)$ is bounded for every $r > \operatorname* { i n f } \left\{ H ( x ) { : } x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right\}$ . Then system (1) is forward complete.

Discussion of Theorem 1: Theorem 1 in the same spirit with the results in [1] for systems defined on $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ (it is a generalization of certain results in [1]) and with the results in [13] for abstract systems defined on normed linear spaces. However, in contrast with the results in [1], Theorem 1 does not require the set $S _ { r } = \left\{ x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } : H ( x ) \leq r \right\}$ to be bounded for all $r > \operatorname* { i n f } \left\{ H ( x ) { : } x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right\}$ , i.e., Theorem 1 does not require  to be radially unbounded. Instead, Theorem 1 requires boundedness of the set $f \left( S _ { r } \right) = { \Big \{ } f ( x ) : x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , H ( x ) \leq r { \Big \} }$ for all $r > \operatorname* { i n f } \left\{ H ( x ) { : } x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right\}$ ; this condition is automatically satisfied if $S _ { r } = \left\{ x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } : H ( x ) \leq r \right\}$ is bounded for all $r > \operatorname* { i n f } \left\{ H ( x ) { : } x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right\}$ , i.e., when  H is radially unbounded, but can also be satisfied in other cases. The following example illustrates this point.

Now we digress to an example that illustrates Theorem 1 but is not inspired by adaptive control.

Example 1: Consider the following system
