with adaptation learning rate α as a hyper-parameter. Although single-step gradient updates are consider, multi-step updates are also applicable.

3) Training Stage: The training stage update $\theta _ { 0 }$ by computing the prediction loss over a batch of tasks. The metaobjective is formulated as the prediction loss incorporating regularizations:

$$\mathcal {L} _ {\mathrm{meta}} (\theta_ {0}) = \sum_ {\mathcal {D} _ {k} \sim p (\mathcal {D})} \left[ \mathcal {L} (\theta_ {0} + \Delta \theta_ {k}, \mathcal {B} _ {k} ^ {t}) \right. \tag {9}\left. + \lambda_ {\mathrm{dir}} \mathcal {L} \left(\theta_ {0}, \mathcal {B} _ {k} ^ {t}\right) \right] + \lambda_ {\text {norm}} \| \theta_ {0} \| ^ {2} \tag {10}$$

where $\lambda _ { \mathrm { d i r } }$ and $\lambda _ { \mathrm { { n o r m } } }$ are regularization coefficients for direct prediction cost and $\theta _ { 0 }$ norm cost, respectively. The direct prediction cost ensures the model’s disturbance prediction capability without adaptation, consistent with the regularization term of the adaptive controller (15). The norm cost helps reduce the network’s Jacobian norm [42], thereby minimizing the disturbance terms in Eq. (23). Thanks to the overparameterization nature of DNN, these regularization terms do not conflict with the primary objective of disturbance prediction.

Meta-optimization across tasks is performed via stochastic gradient descent (SGD), updating $\theta _ { 0 }$ as follows:

$$\theta_ {0} \leftarrow \theta_ {0} - \beta \nabla_ {\theta} \sum_ {\mathcal {D} _ {k} \sim p (\mathcal {D})} \left[ \mathcal {L} (\theta_ {k} (\theta_ {0}), \mathcal {B} _ {k} ^ {t}) + \lambda \mathcal {L} (\theta_ {0}, \mathcal {B} _ {k} ^ {t}) \right] (1 1)$$

with $p ( \mathcal { D } )$ as the task distribution. To enhance the stability of the neural network during online adaptation, spectral normalization is applied to $\theta _ { 0 }$ , constraining the network’s Lipschitz constant [27].
