The task of the development of practical output stability notions has been performed by many researchers in control theory (see notes and comments below). The present set of notes provides and analyzes a collection of stability properties for input-free systems: Lagrange output stability, Lyapunov Output stability, global asymptotic output stability (GAOS), (practical) uniform global asymptotic output stability (p-UGAOS) and (practical) global output attractivity (p-GOA). All these stability notions become the well-known stability notions for input-free systems when the output coincides with the state of the system. Moreover, we also explain in detail a set of stability properties for systems with inputs: (practical) Input-to-Output Stability (p-IOS), the (practical) output asymptotic gain (p-OAG) property, the (practical) Uniform Bounded-Input-Bounded-State (p-UBIBS) property and the zero (practical) Output Asymptotic Gain (zero p-OAG) property.

However, the present set of notes is not simply a set of notes on global output stability properties. We also do the following things:

i) we show how the need of the output stability properties arises in adaptive control theory, and

ii) for each stability notion we provide verifiable sufficient conditions together with simple academic examples that illustrate the use of the provided sufficient conditions for the proof of each stability property.

It is a regrettable reality of the adaptive control literature that many authors use terms like “global asymptotic stability” in a loose way and one needs to carefully scrutinize the steps in their analysis in order to understand what the authors actually prove/mean. For example, there is confusion between global asymptotic stability and global asymptotic output stability. There are papers where the authors prove boundedness of solutions (with no uniformity with respect to the initial conditions) and global output attractivity and still the authors talk about global asymptotic stability. We hope the present set of notes can help the researchers to adopt a precise terminology that describes the obtained stability properties in a rigorous (and scientifically correct) way.
