Regarding the estimation of slidslip, Figure 6 illustrates the estimation of sideslip angle in ????????3 ∼ ????????6. In both ????????3 and ????????5, $\beta _ { e s }$ exhibits buffeting from time 10 s to 30 s, with ????????5 showing noticeable outliers when the true value of ?? undergoes rapid variations (up to 103 degrees per second). In contrast, ????????4 and ????????6 track accurately the ?? when its variation is approximately 74 degrees per second. Obviously, the buffeting phenomenon observed in ????????3 and ????????5 has been eliminated in ????????4 and ????????6 through the utilization of the nonlinear tracking differentiator. Additionally, in ????????4 and ????????6, a noticeable cutoff phenomenon is observed in the estimated sideslip angle $\beta _ { e s }$ causing by the anti-saturation controller, which helps maintain the $\beta _ { e s }$ within a reasonable range from −?? to ?? even when the actual sideslip angle $\beta$ undergoes rapid variations. As a result, the buffeting and outliers observed in ELOS guidance law (????????3 and ????????5) have been effectively addressed in IELOS guidance law (????????4 and ????????6) through the incorporation of an anti-saturation controller and nonlinear tracking differentiator.

There is a strong correlation between the autopilot torque $u _ { \psi }$ and the estimation of sideslip $\beta _ { e s }$ . Consequently, a similar trend is also evident in Figure 7, where IELOS guidance law notably decrease the autopilot torque $u _ { \psi }$ and abnormal outliers compared to the ELOS guidance law, regardless of whether bandwidth ?? = 10 or $k \ = \ 2$ . Shown as the red dotted box of Figure 7 (a) and (b), the buffeting of autopilot torque $u _ { \psi }$ has been successfully addressed in transient phase. Additionally, the corporation of nonlinear tracking differentiator efficiently decrease the overall mean torque in steady phase. The overall mean torque of ????????3 to ????????6 has been depicted in Figure 7.

The simulation result indicates that IELOS guidance law can effectively addresses the challenge faced by ESO in accurately tracking sideslip angle with dramatic variation under low observer bandwidth ??, thereby reducing the buffeting phenomenon observed in ESO. This reduction in buffeting leads to a decrease in the torque generated by the propeller actuators, promoting their long-term durability. Additionally, IELOS outperforms LOS and ALOS, showcasing lower MAE of $x _ { e }$ and $y _ { e } ,$ , and superior overall performance.
