# 3.1. Improved ELOS Guidance

In this section, an reduced-order ESO with Nonlinear tracking differentiator and anti-saturation controller will be employed to estimate the sideslip angle of the AUH. To simplify the (6), let cos $\beta \ \approx \ 1$ and sin $\beta \ \approx \ \beta .$ Thus (6) becomes

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} _ {e} = U \cos (\psi - \alpha_ {k}) - U \sin (\psi - \alpha_ {k}) \beta + \dot {\alpha} _ {k} y _ {e} - u _ {p} \\ \dot {y} _ {e} = U \sin (\psi - \alpha_ {k}) - U \cos (\psi - \alpha_ {k}) \beta - \dot {\alpha} _ {k} x _ {e} \end{array} \right. \tag {7}
$$

Let $g = U \cos ( \psi - \alpha _ { k } ) \beta .$ . According (Xingling and Honglun, 2015) and (Liu et al., 2016), the reduced-order ESO applied to estimate $g$ is presented by

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {p} = - k p - k ^ {2} y _ {e} - k \left[ U \sin (\psi_ {d} - \alpha_ {k}) - \dot {\alpha} _ {k} x _ {e} \right] \\ \hat {g} = p + k y _ {e} \end{array} \right. \tag {8}
$$

where $\hat { g }$ is the estimation of $g .$ ?? denotes the auxiliary state of the observer, ?? represents the observer gain. $\psi _ { d }$ denotes the desired heading decided by guidance law. Hence, the estimation of $\beta$ can be deprived as ${ \hat { \beta } } .$ .

In practice, the estimation $\hat { \beta }$ obtained by reduced-order ESO often leads to the buffeting effect, which can have adverse effects on the autopilot controller and propeller actuators. To mitigate this issue, a tracking differentiator is utilized as a filter to reduce high-frequency oscillations and smooth the torque output of the propellers. Initially proposed by (Han, 2009), a noise-tolerant time optimal control (TOC)- based tracking differentiator allows one to avoid a setpoint jump in the emerging active disturbance rejection controller. The advantage of this tracking differentiator is to maintain a greater level of smoothness than sliding mode-based differentiators (Zhang et al., 2019). The tracking differentiator is presented as follows:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {v} _ {1} = v _ {2} \\ \dot {v} _ {2} = \text { fhan } (v _ {1}, v _ {2}, r, h) \end{array} \right. \tag {9}
$$

Define fsg $\begin{array} { r l r } { ( x , d ) } & { = } & { ( \mathrm { s i g n } ( x + d ) - \mathrm { s i g n } ( x - d ) ) / 2 , } \end{array}$ , f han $\left( v _ { 1 } , v _ { 2 } , r , h \right)$ can be expressed as
