# Abstract

Stability theory plays a crucial role in feedback control. However, adaptive control theory requires advanced and specialized stability notions that are not frequently used in standard feedback control theory. The present document is a set of notes for a graduate course. It describes the global stability notions needed in (robust) adaptive control and develops the mathematical tools that are used for the proof of such stability properties. Moreover, the document shows why and how these global stability properties arise in adaptive control. We focus on stability properties for time-invariant systems. Consequently, tracking control problems are not covered by the present document.

It is a regrettable reality of the adaptive control literature that many authors use terms like “global asymptotic stability” in a loose way and one needs to carefully scrutinize the steps in their analysis in order to understand what the authors actually prove/mean. It is far preferable for adaptive control theory to use a precise terminology that describes the obtained stability properties in a rigorous (and scientifically correct) way. That is why we believe that the present set of notes can inspire and help young researchers in adaptive control.

We try to present the material in the least technical way. Emphasis is placed on the detailed presentation of simple and pedagogical examples. For the interested and mathematically oriented reader we give the precise references where some of the results are proved. We have also included some novel stability results with their proofs. Moreover, we try to present some important issues in adaptive control by means of easy-to-grasp examples.
