# V. STABILITY ANALYSIS

In this section, we present the theoretical stability analysis of the proposed control scheme, showing that the system remains stable under disturbance $d ( q , \dot { q } , w )$ , and that the tracking error $\tilde { q }$ converges to an error ball exponentially fast.

We make the following assumptions for system (1) and the neural network $f \colon$

Assumption 1: For all environment conditions w and DNN parameter $\theta \in \Theta$ , there exists an optimal DNN parameter $\theta ^ { * } ( w )$ , such that the disturbance prediction error $f ( q , \dot { q } , \theta ^ { * } ( w ) ) - f ( q , \dot { q } , \theta )$ can be approximated by its Taylor expansion and the approximation error r is bounded.

$$f (x, \theta) - f (x, \theta^ {*} (w)) = J \tilde {\theta} + r, \quad \| r \| \leq \bar {r} \tag {17}$$

where $\tilde { \theta } = \theta - \theta ^ { * }$ denotes the network parameter error.

Assumption 2: For all $\theta \in \Theta$ , the output of the neural network $f ( q , \dot { q } , \theta )$ is bounded.

Assumption 3: The disturbance d and neural representation error $\mu ( t ) = d - f ( q , \dot { q } , \theta ^ { * } ( w ) )$ ) are uniformly bounded.

Thanks to the meta-learning-based training strategy in Sec. IV-A, the initial network parameter $\theta _ { 0 }$ is close to the optimal network weight $\theta ^ { * } ( w )$ for all environment conditions $w ,$ ensuring that Assumption 1 holds for all environment conditions w in the training set D. Additionally, pretraining minimizes the initial parameter error $\tilde { \theta } ( 0 )$ , accelerating the convergence speed of online adaptation.

Assumption 2 can be simply satisfied in practice by clipping the network output, and assumption 3 is common in existing works [5], [32].

Substituting the nominal control law (13) into the dynamics (1), the resulting closed-loop dynamics becomes:

$$M \dot {s} + (C + K) s = - f (q, \dot {q}, \theta) + d (q, \dot {q}, w) \tag {18}$$

The next step is to prove the boundedness of the network Jacobian J, which will be applied in Theorem 2.

Theorem 1: Suppose the network f and disturbance d satisfy Assumptions 2 and 3. The states s, $q , \dot { q }$ of the closedloop system (18) are bounded. Furthermore, there exists a constant J¯ as the uniform upper bound of the Jacobian matrix ∥J∥ for the network $f ( q , \dot { q } , \theta )$ .
