# 4) The Need of Output Stability Properties for Disturbance-Free Systems in Adaptive Control

Adaptive control is a particular case in which output stability notions are useful. Adaptive control strategies rely on a state extension to provide a dynamical estimate of unknown parameters. In this context, it is not always necessary to precisely estimate these unknown parameters to get a satisfactory behavior of the system's solutions. In other words, only part of the state variables of the closed-loop system are requested to converge to zero, which can be rephrased as a GAOS objective. To show this, consider the simplest of cases: the so-called case of a system that satisfies the “matching condition”. Consider the following control system

$$\dot {y} = f (y) + g (y) \left(u + (\varphi (y)) ^ {\prime} \theta\right) \tag {30}y \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}, \theta \in \mathbb {R} ^ {p}, u \in \mathbb {R}$$

where $f , g : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , \varphi : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ are locally Lipschitz vector fields with $f ( 0 ) = 0$ and $\varphi ( 0 ) = 0 , \ y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ denotes the state, $u \in \mathbb { R }$ is the control input and $\theta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the constant vector of unknown parameters. The control system (30) satisfies the “matching condition” (following the terminology in [10]) since the uncertain parameters are in the span of the control.

The following assumption is used for the control system (30).

(H) There exist functions $P \in C ^ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } )$ being positive definite and radially unbounded, $Q \in C ^ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } )$ being positive definite and a locally Lipschitz function $k \in C ^ { 0 } \left( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } \right)$ with $k ( 0 ) = 0$ such that

$$\nabla P (y) f (y) + \nabla P (y) g (y) k (y) \leq - Q (y), \text { for all } y \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n} \tag {31}$$

When Assumption (H) holds then it is possible to regulate the state to zero by applying a standard adaptive control scheme. To see this, consider the adaptive controller

$$u = k (y) - \big (\varphi (y) \big) ^ {\prime} \hat {\theta}\frac {d \hat {\theta}}{d t} = \Gamma^ {- 1} \nabla P (y) g (y) \varphi (y) \tag {32}$$

where $\Gamma \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times p }$ is a constant, positive definite matrix (parameters of the controller). System (30) in closed loop with (32) then reads:
