# B. PD-Dynamic Identification

It is assumed that the torques responsible for horizontal motion, $\begin{array} { r } { ^ { b } \pmb { \tau } _ { h } } & { = \quad \lceil \tau _ { x } \quad \tau _ { y } \rceil ^ { \pmb { \tau } } } \end{array}$ bτh , are controlled by a low-level attitude PD controller. This controller regulates the torques in the x- and y-axes to ensure stability in the horizontal plane. These torques are applied as follows:

$${ } ^ { b } \pmb { \tau } _ { h } = \mathbf { K } _ { p _ { h } } ( \pmb { \Omega } _ { h _ { d } } - \pmb { \Omega } _ { h } ) + \mathbf { K } _ { d _ { h } } ( \dot { \pmb { \Omega } } _ { h _ { d } } - \dot { \pmb { \Omega } } _ { h } ) ,$$

where $\Omega _ { h } = { \left[ \phi \begin{array} { l l } { \theta } & { \theta } \end{array} \right] } ^ { \top }$ represents the current roll and pitch angles, and $\Omega _ { h _ { d } } = \left[ \phi _ { d } \quad \theta _ { d } \right] ^ { \top }$ represents the desired attitude. Assuming no change in the desired attitude rate, $\dot { \Omega } _ { h _ { d } } = 0$ . The proportional and derivative gains are denoted by $\mathbf { K } _ { p _ { h } }$ and $\mathbf { K } _ { d _ { h } }$ , respectively.

It is assumed that if $\Omega _ { h _ { d } } = 0$ , then:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \boldsymbol {\tau} _ {h} \| = 0 \quad \text { and } \quad \lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \tilde {\boldsymbol {\Omega}} _ {h} \| = 0,$$

where $\tilde { \Omega } _ { h } \ = \ \Omega _ { h _ { d } } \ - - \Omega _ { h }$ . This ensures that over time, the applied torque and attitude error in the horizontal plane will tend to zero.

For yaw control, the torque is governed by a PD controller with acceleration feedback:

$${ } ^ { b } \tau _ { \psi } = k _ { p _ { \psi } } ( \dot { \psi } _ { d } - \dot { \psi } ) + k _ { d _ { \psi } } ( \ddot { \psi } _ { d } - \ddot { \psi } ) ,$$

where $\dot { \psi } _ { d }$ is the desired yaw rate, $\ddot { \psi } _ { d }$ is the desired yaw acceleration, $\dot { \psi }$ is the current yaw rate, and $\ddot { \psi }$ is the current yaw acceleration. The yaw control considers both yaw rate and yaw acceleration. Therefore, we assume that:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \tau_ {\psi} \| = 0 \quad \text { and } \quad \lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \tilde {\psi} \| = 0,$$

where $\tilde { \psi } = \psi _ { d } - \psi$ , implying that both the applied yaw torque and yaw angle error will tend to zero over time.

In hover, with gravity compensation, the vertical thrust force is given by:

$${ } ^ { b } f _ { z } = k _ { p _ { z } } ( \dot { \eta } _ { z _ { d } } - \dot { \eta } _ { z } ) + k _ { d _ { z } } ( \ddot { \eta } _ { z _ { d } } - \ddot { \eta } _ { z } ) + m g ,$$
