In this paper, we bridge this gap by introducing a novel Self-Supervised Meta-learning for All-Layer DNN-based Adaptive Control (SSML-AC) framework. This framework pretrains a DNN via self-supervised meta-learning (SSML) from offline trajectories and adapts the full DNN online using composite adaptation, as shown in Fig. 1. In particular, the offline SSML stage leverages time consistency in trajectory data to train the DNN to predict future disturbances in a selfsupervised manner, without requiring environment condition labels. The online stage carefully designs a control law and a speed-gradient composite adaptation law to update the full DNN, with theoretical stability guarantees. Our contribution is three-fold:

• SSML-AC Framework: We propose SSML-AC framework, incorporating the self-supervised meta-learning stage for DNN pretraining and the adaptation law for online full DNN update.   
• Stability Analysis: Our Lyapunov analysis not only guarantees exponential stability of the closed-loop system, but also guides the loss design and hyper-parameter tuning in the pretraining process.   
• Experimental Validation: Our method demonstrates state-of-the-art quadrotor adaptive control performance in challenging real-world tracking tasks under highly dynamic wind disturbances, outperforming classic and learning-based adaptive control baselines by 19-39%.

The paper is organized as follows: Section II reviews relevant background on adaptive control and meta-learning. Section III formulates the problem of meta-learning for DNN-based online adaptation. In Section IV, we introduce the SSML-AC training and adaptation method, followed by stability analysis in Section V. Section VI presents realworld experiments on a Crazyflie quadrotor to demonstrate the effectiveness of SSML-AC framework. Finally, Section VII concludes the paper.
