Remark: If $V \in C ^ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } )$ is a radially unbounded function, then there exist continuous functions $\gamma , \zeta : \mathbb { R } _ { + } \to \mathbb { R } .$ such that (17), (18) and (19) hold. Indeed, we obtain in this case the following corollary of Theorem 2, which can also be obtained as a direct consequence of the Barbashin-Krasovskii-LaSalle’s theorem.

Corollary 1: Suppose that there exist functions $a \in K _ { \infty } , V , W \in C ^ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } )$ with $V ( 0 ) = W ( 0 ) = 0$ and a continuous, positive definite function $\rho : \mathbb { R } _ { + } \to \mathbb { R }$ for which (12), (16) hold for all $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ Moreover, suppose that $V \in C ^ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } )$ is a radially unbounded function. Then system (1), (2) is GAOS.

Theorem 2 is less demanding than Barbashin-Krasovskii-LaSalle’s theorem. The following example illustrates this point. Both the example and Theorem 2 itself draw some inspiration from adaptive control but go beyond adaptive control.

Example 3 (Verification of GAOS): Consider the following three-dimensional system

$$\dot {y} = - (1 + w ^ {2}) y + \frac {2 z g (z , w)}{(1 + z ^ {2}) ^ {2}}\dot {z} = - g (z, w) y \tag {20}\dot {w} = w + \left| y \right|x = (y, z, w) \in \mathbb {R} ^ {3}$$

where $g : \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }  \mathbb { R }$ is a bounded locally Lipschitz function. We start by showing forward completeness of system (20). This can be shown by using the function $H ( x ) = \left( y ^ { 2 } + z ^ { 2 } + w ^ { 2 } \right) / 2$ which satisfies the following inequalities for all $x = ( y , z , w ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$

$$\dot {H} (x) = \nabla H (x) \dot {x} = - \left(1 + w ^ {2}\right) y ^ {2} + \frac {2 z g (z , w)}{\left(1 + z ^ {2}\right) ^ {2}} y- z g (z, w) y + w ^ {2} + w | y | \tag {21}\leq - y ^ {2} + 3 \big | g (z, w) \big | \big | z \big | \big | y \big | + w ^ {2} + \big | w \big | \big | y \big |\leq 9 R ^ {2} z ^ {2} + 3 w ^ {2} / 2 \leq (1 8 R ^ {2} + 3) H (x)$$

where $R : = \operatorname* { s u p } \left\{ \big | g ( z , w ) \big | : ( z , w ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right\}$ . It follows from (21) and Theorem 1 (notice that  is radially unbounded) that system (20) is forward complete. Next, we define the function $V ( x ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 } { y } ^ { 2 } + \frac { z ^ { 2 } } { 1 + z ^ { 2 } }$ 2Z , which satisfies (15) with $a ( s ) = s ^ { 2 } / 2$ for all $s \geq 0$ . Moreover, satisfies the +1+z2 following inequality for all $x = ( y , z , w ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$

$$\dot {V} (x) = \nabla V (x) \dot {x} = - \left(1 + w ^ {2}\right) y ^ {2} \leq - y ^ {2} \tag {22}$$
