Estimate (103) implies that  z t( ) is bounded. Therefore, assumption (i) in conjunction with (92) guarantees that $\xi ( t )$ is bounded for all $t \in \left[ 0 , t _ { m a x } \right)$ . Consequently, $t _ { m a x } = + \infty$ . Moreover, estimate (92) implies directly the required estimate (81).

Since  is non-decreasing and bounded from above, $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { \tau  + \infty } ( z ( \tau ) )$ exists. Thus, we obtain from (102):

$$z _ {0} \leq z (t) \leq \lim _ {\tau \rightarrow + \infty} (z (\tau)) \leq G (s) \tag {104}$$

Next, define the following function for $r \geq 0$ :

$$H (r) := \max \left\{\left| w \right|: V (w, \zeta) \leq \left(1 + \frac {a}{C (r)}\right) r \text { and } | \zeta | \leq G (r) \right\} \tag {105}$$

Assumption (i) guarantees that  is well-defined. Since  is non-decreasing and  is nonincreasing, it follows from (105) that  H is non-decreasing. Moreover, it follows from estimates (96), (103) and definitions (94), (105):

$$\left| x (t) \right| \leq H (s), \text { for all } t \geq 0 \tag {106}$$

Define the continuous function $\tilde { H } ( r ) : = G ( r ) + \int _ { r } ^ { r + 1 } H ( l ) d l$ for $r \geq 0$ (notice that since  is nondecreasing, it is locally bounded and Riemann-integrable on every bounded interval of $\mathbb { R } _ { + } )$ . We conclude from (106), (102) and (94) that estimates (83), (82) hold with $B \left( \xi _ { 0 } , z _ { 0 } , \left. d \right. _ { \infty } , \left. \theta \right. _ { \infty } \right) = \tilde { H } \left( V ( \xi _ { 0 } , z _ { 0 } ) + \left| z _ { 0 } \right| + \left. \theta \right. _ { \infty } ^ { 2 } + \left. d \right. _ { \infty } ^ { 2 } \right)$

We next show estimate (79). Estimate (102) and the fact that $z ( t )$ is non-decreasing guarantees that the function  has a finite limit as $t \to + \infty$ . This implies that the function  has a finite limit as $t \to + \infty$ . Moreover, the facts that $d \in L ^ { \infty } \left( \mathbb { R } _ { + } ; D \right) , \theta \in L ^ { \infty } \left( \mathbb { R } _ { + } ; \Theta \right)$ and (103), (106) imply that $\frac { d } { d t } \big ( V ( \xi ( t ) , z ( t ) ) \big )$ d is of class $L ^ { \infty } \left( \mathbb { R } _ { + } \right)$ . It follows that the function $\frac { d } { d t } \big ( \exp ( z ( t ) ) \big ) = \Gamma \big ( V ( \xi ( t ) , z ( t ) ) - \varepsilon \big ) ^ { + }$ isuniformlycontiuous，inaditionto $\int _ { 0 } ^ { + \infty } { \frac { d } { d t } } { \bigl ( } \exp ( z ( t ) ) { \bigr ) } d t = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t \to + \infty } { \bigl ( } \exp ( z ( t ) ) { \bigr ) } - \exp ( z _ { 0 } ) \leq \exp { \bigl ( } G ( s ) { \bigr ) } - \exp ( z _ { 0 } ) < + \infty$ . From Barbălat’s
