The aim of this paper is to develop a control system to land a quadrotor UAV on a moving ship whilst experiencing wind disturbance and ship oscillations. The presented control system can make the quadrotor UAV autonomously land whilst overcoming these adverse conditions, and the addition of a rudder beneath each propeller is designed to increase the yaw authority which is found to be lacking in heavy-lift quadrotor UAV. This addition is evaluated using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). The control system is based on reference-point tracking, allowing the UAV to follow any desired path in 3D space whilst simultaneously yawing to face any desired heading. The control system and UAV, ship, and disturbance models have all been simulated and evaluated in MATLAB Simulink. Realistic saturation limits on actuator outputs are used to ensure an accurate representation of real-world performance. Disturbances include randomised gusting wind in 3 axes, and sensor noise on translation and rotation signals to represent noise from the GPS and accelerometer respectively. The results from the simulations demonstrate that the UAV is capable of landing on a ship which is moving with varying heading and oscillating vertically on ocean waves and has the ability to time its descent such that it meets the ship at the peak of a wave to minimise the relative velocity. At touchdown, the position error was 0.110 ?? and the relative velocity was $0 . 9 6 3 \ : m s ^ { - 1 }$ , compared to a target relative velocity of $1 m s ^ { - 1 }$ , indicating a performance sufficient to replace manned helicopters for appropriate missions.
