As one can see in Fig. 4, the parameters $V _ { S } = - 3 5 . 5 .$ $- 3 6 ,$ and −36.5 lay within the area of bistability when $k = 1$ , while at $k = 0$ the fixed point is always unstable, Fig. 3. The fixed points of the neural network maps (5) reconstructed for these parameter values at $k = 0$ are shown in Figs. $1 3 ( \mathrm { a } , \mathrm { b } , \mathrm { c } )$ . It is noteworthy that there are no stable fixed points at $p = 0 . 5$ and in the vicinity of this value, which is consistent with the properties of the system (1) at $k = 0$ . Figures 13(e, f, g) corresponds to the maps trained when the modeled system had a stable fixed point at $k = 1$ . One sees that at $V _ { S } = - 3 5 . 5$ and −36, Figs. 13(e, f), respectively, all three reconstructed maps also have a stable fixed point. However, for the maps trained at $V _ { S } ~ = ~ - 3 6 . 5 , ~ \mathrm { F i g } . ~ 1 3 ( \mathrm { g } )$ , only one of them exhibits the expected stable fixed point, while for two others the fixed point is unstable even exactly at the training point $p = 0 . 5$ .

Regardless of $k ,$ the fixed point of the modeled system (1) is unstable at $V _ { S } = - 3 8$ . Consequently, all reconstructed maps also lack stable fixed points at $p = 0 . 5$ and in the vicinity of this value, see Figs. 13(d, h).

In conclusion, the training procedures under discussion do not consistently recovers the stability property of the fixed point of the system (1). However, a clear trend has been observed: in the presented examples, only one of eight considered cases does not fully correspond to the expected behavior: in Fig. $\mathrm { 1 3 ( g ) }$ not all runs of the training result in the expected stable fixed point.

When the system (1) is reconstructed at parameter values where its fixed point is stable, say $k = 1 , V _ { S } = - 3 6$ , and the trained map correctly identifies the stability property of this point, a diagram of regimes with bistability similar to that in Fig. 4 can be plotted, see Fig. 14. In Fig. 14(a) we compute a solution starting form an arbitrary initial point at $p = 0 . 5$ and then continue this solution to the left and to the right. Then we find the stable fixed point at $p = 0 . 5$ and again continue it to the left and to the right, Fig. 14(b). It can be observed that the fixed point remains stable approximately for $p \in [ 0 . 4 , 1 ]$ , while outside of this range, the oscillating solutions, burst and spikes, appear. It is notable that this diagram is sufficiently similar to the diagram plotted directly for the system 1, see Fig. 4.
