# 1 Introduction

Mean Field Game (MFG) theory addresses the complexity of modelling and analyzing large populations of strategically interacting dynamic agents [14, 18] by providing an framework to identify decentralized approximate solutions for large-population stochastic games. MFG finds applications in various domains such as finance (e.g., algorithmic trading [5]), energy systems [17], transportation dynamics [11], and epidemic modelling [2], among others. Many variations and extensions of MFG are now available, see for instance [3, 16, 19, 22, 25] where techniques from adaptive control, reinforcement learning, risk-sensitive control, and robust control have been adapted to MFG problems. One variation of MFG problems incorporates the quantile of the mean field distribution (see [8, 23, 24]). The quantile function allows a simple representation of the mean-field distribution involving higher order moments (e.g., variances in the Gaussian case) and the flexibility of adjusting the distribution couplings via the quantile parameter [8, 23].

In this work, we will investigate linear quadratic MFGs where the cost coefficients depend on the quantile of the mean field distribution. Due to the Gaussian nature of the problem, one can simplify the analysis, resulting in a linear quadratic MFG where cost coefficients depends on the mean and variance of the mean field distribution. This allows us to characterized the MFG solutions and establish conditions for the existence and uniqueness of solutions.

One closely related work is the integral control based MFG [17] where the coefficient in the running cost depends on an integral term related to the population behaviour over time to account for requirements from energy applications. The dependence of the cost coefficient on the population in [17] differs from the current paper. Another related work is [7] where the mean-variance portfolio optimization problems treated in using a mean field approach, and hence is different from the current paper in the problem formulation.

The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the problem formulation. Then the MFG solution is established in Section 3. A special case where the cost coefficient does not depend on the mean is treated in Section 4. Conditions for the existence and uniqueness of solutions are established in Section 5. The properties of the solutions are numerically illustrated in Section 6. Finally, future generalizations are discussed in Section 7.
