This equation is build of scalars, vectors and matrices that are described in Tab. III in Appendix C. Vector of dynamical variables $u ( n )$ has dimension $D _ { u }$ . Scalar $u _ { i } ( n )$ denotes its ith component and represents a dynamical variable of the ith subsystem. Vector $u _ { \neg i } ( n )$ is obtained from $u ( n )$ by removing the ith component and thus has dimension $D _ { u } \mathrm { ~ - ~ } 1$ . As usual for neural networks notation $u ( n )$ and $u _ { \neg i } ( n )$ are treated as row-vectors. Control parameters are collected as a $D _ { p }$ -dimensional row-vector $p .$ Functions $f ( \cdot )$ and $g ( \cdot )$ are called activation functions. They are scalar functions of scalar arguments and when they are applied to vectors, elements-wise operation is assumed.

Coefficient $\chi$ is a small constant. It is required to stabilize the dynamics of the map (5). Without it the map even after a successful training can sometimes demonstrate the divergence. This is because the neural network map (5) has a structure of the Euler scheme of numerical ODE solving with χ playing the role of a time step. This scheme is known to diverges if the time step is too large38. Thus, the search for a suitable value of χ reduces to finding the maximum time step at which the corresponding Euler scheme for Eq. (1) remains stable. Straightforward check reveled that the condition $\chi < 0 . 0 1$ is enough for the stability, and thus for further computations we set $\chi = \Delta t = 0 . 0 0 5$ .

Detailed description of the neural network map as well as discussion of its software implementation can be found in Appendix C.
