# B. Variational autoencoder for the Hodgkin-Huxley-type model

We are going to model the periodic bursting oscillations of the system (1), like those shown in Fig. 1. The information about the modeled system is limited by a single period. The period size depends on the parameters and approximately equals to $T \approx 1 0$ . Step size of time discretization is $\Delta t = 0 . 0 0 5$ . The scalar time series of one period length is sliced into the delay-coordinate embedding vectors $R ( n )$ of dimension $D _ { e } = 3 2$ , see Eq. (3).

The approach we develop is not sensible to the particular choice of $D _ { e }$ provided that it excessively larger then dimension of the considered system $D _ { u } = 3$ . This is the advantage of using VAE for state vector recovery. However to make sure we checked various $D _ { e } \colon 1 6 , 3 2 , 6 4$ , 128 and 512, and all worked equally well.

The approximate size of the resulting dataset is $T / \Delta t$ ≈ 2000 which is small. Training a neural network on a small dataset usually results in the network simply memorising the data instead of the desired generalization of the data, i.e. the extraction of their essential features. One of the standard methods to improve this situation is data augmentation. We perform it as follows: the trajectory cut of one period length is supplied with its 19 copies perturbed by a small Gaussian noise with zero mean and the standard deviation $1 / 2 0 0$ . Besides the improved data generalization the augmentation serves for better robustness: the obtained VAE is trained to encode and decode not the unique trajectory, but a small cloud of them.
