# A. Literature Review

Many algorithms have been proposed for CPP in different environments with and without obstacles [4], [5]. Algorithms can be divided into randomized and deterministic, and they are based on techniques such as AFPs, greedy search, graph search algorithms, and bio-inspired approaches, like genetic algorithms or ant colony optimization.

A key point for some applications is that the resulting paths should be smooth [5]. In fact, some robots are not able to turn on the spot. Sharp turns may also slow the robot down or lead to premature wear of the robot’s components. For example, in [6], a search algorithm based on ant colony optimization with the Lin-Kernighan heuristic, is combined with a path smoothing using Fourier series. The resulting trajectory is then fed to the UAV, which is operated by a controller based on MPC.

MPC itself has been successfully employed for collisionfree path planning for autonomous road vehicles [7] as well as UAVs [8]. It has been combined with with AFPs [9], [10], and it has also been employed previously for CPP with obstacles using a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) formulation [11]. To this end, the area is covered by a uniform grid, where each cell defines a single way point. The way points are subsequently represented as discrete decision variables within the optimization problem, where the objective is to cover the maximum number of (equally weighted) way points.

Related to CPP and WCPP is the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) and its variants, most notably the Orienteering Problem (OP) [12]. In contrast to the TSP, where the salesman has to visit all vertices of the graph and the goal is to minimize the traveled distance, the OP is concerned with maximizing the total reward collected within a limited time frame, without necessarily visiting all the vertices [13]. Both problems are known to be NP-hard [14]. Yet it is desirable, for many applications, to extend them by considering a spacial map instead of a graph, and including the dynamics of an agent in the problem formulation [15]. A mathematical framework to tackle this problem using techniques from optimal control has been recently proposed [15], [16]. In addition to the dynamics of an agent, this formulation also accounts for the movement of a sensor, in this case, a camera. However, the approach relies on non-smooth calculus and considers only discrete regions of interest.
