# I. INTRODUCTION

State-of-the-art methodologies in robotic path planning typically seek to determine an optimal trajectory, maximizing a reward function given the system’s dynamic capabilities. The reward function is often a weighted sum of terms for particular purposes, e.g., proximity-based guidance by Artificial Potential Fields (APF) or enforcing safety boundaries via barrier functions. Model Predictive Control (MPC) fully encompasses this framework by formulating the problem as a numerical optimization program. Over the past decade, MPC has become a standard approach for many path planning applications, owing to its inherent capacity to effectively integrate general objective functions, complex system dynamics, and constraints on the system’s inputs and states.

Coverage Path Planning (CPP) is characterized by the mandate for the system to traverse, or cover, the entire area of the designated state space, instead of moving to a target area or point. Instances of this problem are prevalent in diverse robotic domains, including autonomous agricultural systems, automated cleaning devices, and aerial or underwater drones employed for inspection or surveillance. Motion planning approaches are typically based on pre-defined patterns or simple policies, including, but not limited to, boustrophedon (snake-like) patterns or random-walk strategies involving boundary reflections [1]. The core principle underpinning these approaches is the minimization of spatial and temporal overlaps in the system’s trajectory.

Weighted Coverage Path Planning (WCPP) is an extension of CPP. The primary difference is the reward is not uniformly distributed, as for the CPP problem. Instead, it is weighted by an explicit coverage priority. Example applications include

(i) a mobile irrigation system, which may aim to prioritize areas based on their moisture level, preferring areas with particularly dry soil;   
(ii) a cleaning robot, whose goal may be to collect as much dirt as possible, hence using a coverage priority based on the actual distribution of dirt;   
(iii) an aerial or underwater inspection or surveillance system, whose priority distribution is related to the probability of detecting a fault or finding a target in a given area or on a given map.
