t   
t   
FIG. 6. Panels (a), (b) and (c) depict one period of a bursting trajectory of the system (1) at $V _ { S } = - 3 6$ and $k = 0 .$ . Panels (d), (e) and (f) illustrate output of the VAE encoder trained on the time series for S(t) from the panel (c). Panel (g), (h) and (i) — output of the VAE encoder trained on $V ( t )$ from the panel (a).

Figure 7 shows VAE encoder outputs computed for the same input data: one period of the variable S of the system (1) at $V _ { S } = - 3 6$ and $k = 0$ see Fig. 6(c). VAEs are trained for six guesses of the dimension $D _ { u } =$ $1 , 2 , \ldots 6 $ , moreover, for each $D _ { u }$ the training is performed two times starting from random initial weights $w _ { e }$ and wd of the network. Totally the results of twelve VAEs are shown.

First of all notice that the components S that is used as training data is reconstructed correctly for all guesses of $D _ { u }$ and for all runs of training, see Figs. $7 ( \mathrm { a _ { 1 } , b _ { 1 } , \dots , }$ $\mathrm { f _ { 1 } } )$ .

When the dimension guess is enough for the second component to appear, $D _ { u } \geq 2 .$ , VAE encoders start to reconstruct the variable V , see Figs. $7 ( \mathrm { b } _ { 2 } , \mathrm { c } _ { 2 } , \dots , \mathrm { f } _ { 2 } )$ . Similarly when $D _ { u } \geq 3$ the component corresponding to n is recovered, Figs. $7 ( \mathrm { { c } _ { 3 } , \mathrm { { d } _ { 3 } . . . , \mathrm { { f } _ { 3 } ) } } }$ ). Notice that when $D _ { u } \le 4$ the recovering of “true” components of the system (1) S, V and n is stable: curves for different runs of training are almost identical, compare solid and dashed curves in Figs.7(a1, b1,2, c1,2,3 and $\mathrm { d _ { 1 , 2 , 3 } } )$ . When $D _ { u } \ = \ 5$ or 6, the different runs of the training results in not completely identical curves for V and n. Nevertheless they are still very similar, compare solid and dashed curves in $\mathrm { F i g s . 7 ( e _ { 2 , 3 } }$ and f2). Summarizing, VAE firmly reproduces “true” components of the modeled system regardless of dimension $D _ { u }$ guess. However when $D _ { u }$ gets higher the reproduction accuracy deteriorates. When the guess for $D _ { u }$ is higher then the true one, spurious components appear. Analyzing the corresponding curves in Figs. $\mathrm { 7 ( d _ { 4 } ) }$ , $\mathrm { 7 ( e _ { 4 , 5 } ) }$ and $\mathrm { 7 ( f _ { 4 , 5 , 6 } ) }$ one sees that their shapes are unstable, i.e., they are different for different training runs, they are not reproduced with increasing $D _ { u }$ and one cannot find a pattern of their emerging.
