Due to the fact that no fixed point information is explicitly presented to the neural network during the training process, the resulting neural network map usually has more than one fixed point. Some of these fixed points are located at a considerable distance from the origin and thus they are not considered because the bursting and spiking oscillations occur within the range $u _ { i } \in [ - 1 , 1 ]$ as a result of the preliminary rescaling of the training data. Moreover, the distinct training runs may yield disparate sets of fixed points due to the random initialization of the network weights. To identify nevertheless patterns in the fixed points appearance for each parameter of the system (1), we will train three neural network maps that differ only in their initial random weights. Thus, the parameter values of the system (1) will be considered in eight combinations: $V _ { S } = - 3 5 . 5 , - 3 6 , - 3 6 . 5$ and −38 at $k = 0$ and $k = 1$ , for each parameter set the time series of S(t) will be computed, the VAE will be trained on it, and then three versions of the neural network map will be trained for each dataset produced by the VAE encoder.

To illustrate the results, we plot the distance of the fixed point from the origin, denoted by $\rho ,$ as a function of $p$ in the vicinity of the training value $p \ : = \ : 0 . 5$ , see Fig. 13. Stable and unstable fixed points are shown with black and orange colors, respectively, and additionally marked by the symbols “−” and $" + "$ in the legends. The three versions of the neural network map are shown with markers of different shapes.
