We will use VAEs for state-space vector reconstruction. At first glance, random sampling from the latent space introduces unnecessary stochasticity to reconstruction procedure. Plain autoencoders that do not use the random sampling can also be used for dimension reduction of phase space vectors11,35. However, plain autoencoders do not guarantee a continuity of the space of the reduced vectors. Close input vector will not necessarily be mapped to the close vectors in the latent space merely since no limitation is applied to the training process that would force this property to appear. For the dynamic reconstruction it means that given close parts of the modeled trajectory there are no reasons to expect that the encoder will always map them to close reconstructed state-space vectors. The proximity preservation in the latent space is very important since without it the reconstructed system will be inappropriate for method of stability analysis based on small perturbations, like computation of Lyapunov exponents. It is the random sampling from the latent space that provides the very training constraint that ensures the proximity preserva-$\tan ^ { 2 0 }$ . Thanks to it, not only the exact vector $u = \mu$ will be mapped back to $R ^ { \prime } \approx R$ but also its small perturbations will also be mapped to vectors close to R. Proximity preservation can be treated as a sort of robustness: two similar system will obtain similar models, and a small neighborhood of the original trajectory will be mapped to a small neighborhood of the trajectory of the reconstructed system.

Consider a dynamical system given by ODEs:

$$\dot {U} = f (U), \tag {2}$$

where $U = U ( t )$ is a state-space vector of dimension $D _ { u } .$ . This equation is solved numerically to obtain a discrete time series of vectors with constant time step ∆t. Then only one scalar component $U _ { i } ( n ) = U _ { i } ( t _ { 0 } + n \Delta t )$ , i ∈ $\{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , D _ { u } \}$ , is taken for further processing. The choice of i is a subject of a separate discussion.

This step models an experimental situation when the full vector as well as an underlying dynamical system are unknown and the only scalar time series is available. In this paper we do not consider a realistic situation when the data record is written with noises, with large discretization step and is too short. We just take “good” numerical data and left more realistic cases for further studies.
