# I. INTRODUCTION

Reconstructing dynamical models from time series is an important task from a practical point of view and also is an interesting theoretical challenge. To date, a large number of approaches and methods for solving this problem have been developed1–3. In connection with the intensive development of artificial neural network technologies, it seems interesting to study their capabilities in relation to the dynamical modeling. In this regard, without claiming completeness, we can mention some related works. In papers4–6 a sort of neural networks techniques called reservoir computing is considered as tool for replicating the dynamics of chaotic systems and predicting their properties. Blending several dynamical systems into a single model built on the bases of reservoir computing is considered in papers7,8. In paper9 recurrent neural network is considered as a tool for reconstruction of a model of dynamics trained directly on the measured physiological data. Paper10 reports a new framework, Gumbel Graph Network, which is a model-free, datadriven deep learning framework to accomplish the reconstruction of both network connections and the dynamics on it. Paper11 is devoted to reconstruction of chaotic dynamic from scalar time series using plain autoencoder.

Along with the reconstruction of dynamical systems, neural networks and machine learning methods inspire new ideas in other fields of nonlinear dynamics. In particular, a series of papers12–14 develops a technique of dynamical learning of synchronization (DLS) designed to control the synchronization state of a complex network composed of nonlinear oscillators. Paper15 demonstrates that a three-layer neural network, comprising input, training, and output layers and utilizing spiketiming-dependent plasticity (STDP), can effectively learn the orderly propagation of signals between network layers under controlled synaptic conditions. Neural networks are used for adaptive modeling and control of dynamical systems16, applied for El Niño attractor reconstruction17, employed for dynamics prediction based on state space reconstruction18. Also machine learning is utilized for biological models creations and analysis19.
