One of the most appealing characteristics of neural networks is their capacity for data generalization. This ability stems from the fact that a well-trained neural network is able to identify and extract from the data features and dependencies that may initially appear to be obscure. In the context of problems related to dynamics reconstruction, this aptitude should facilitate significant advancements in the direction of developing models based on experimental data. It is natural to expect that even with a limited amount of information about the system, such as its single scalar time series, it will be possible to use a neural network to construct a family of models, parameterized by control parameters, that will be able to predict a variety of system behaviors.

Our paper considers this possibility in relation to a specific example: the neuromorphic dynamics of a system built on the basis of the Hodgkin-Huxley formalism. We avoid using simplified neuron models and focus on the realistic Hodgkin-Huxley one since planing in our future works to consider an experimental data obtained from a natural system described within the Hodgkin-Huxley framework.

The main motivation of this paper is to contribute to the methods of studying dynamics based on experimental data. However, in this paper we define a modeled system using ODEs and get a time series from numerical solving the equations. It means that our data are devoid of the features inherent in the data of a real experiment: they are sampled with a small and constant time step, there are quite a lot of them, the readings are recorded without errors (except for numerical ones) and they are not noisy. The cases with non-perfect experimental data will be considered in our subsequent studies.

We use variational autoencoder (VAE)20,21 and neural network map22,23 as tools to perform reconstruction. The VAE is used to recover system state vectors by reducing the dimension of delay-coordinate embedding vectors from the original time series. The recovered state-space vectors are then used to train the neural network map, resulting in a reconstructed dynamical system with a single control parameter.
