CPP problems usually assume a static environment, such as the cleaning of a room. WCPP problems, on the other hand, often appear in dynamic settings, such as the surveillance for moving targets. Clearly, accounting for dynamically changing environment adds a extra level of complexity, and it is also possible to consider WCPP for a static, yet not uniform coverage priority.

This paper focusses on the static WCPP. It is motivated by search and rescue (SAR) missions, e.g., in the Wadden Sea, using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). The goal is to locate a lost person as quickly as possible. Thus the coverage priority is given by a belief distribution of the person’s current location, as a function over the search area. This so-called probability map may be based on information about the last known location of the person, a behavioral model, the environmental conditions, and the elapsed time [3]. More details on the generation of the probability map and a comparison of search methods can be found in a recent publication [2].

This paper proposes an MPC formulation for the static WCPP. From the perspective of MPC, the priority function, or probability map, can be considered as a reward function, or a negative cost function. The major difference to conventional MPC is that each reward can only be collected once, because upon entering a certain position, the related priority drops to zero. In the case of the SAR mission, for example, the UAV is supposed to plan a trajectory to collect as much of the probability mass as possible, instead of hovering above the point with the highest probability value.
