These introduced fluctuations are necessary to compensate an unavoidable imperfection of the training and provide robustness for the trained neural network map. One can never train the network one hundred percent perfect, $\mathrm { i . e . , }$ to make its outputs $u ^ { \prime } ( n + 1 )$ exactly be equal to the desired one $u _ { \mu } ( n + 1 )$ . When the neural network map (5) is trained on many trajectory cuts of a dynamical system with various parameter values, as it is done in our previous works22,23, the map is able to reproduce well the dynamics even in spite of not perfect training. Now we have only one trajectory corresponding to a single set of control parameter values. Training the map (5) without the random sampling of $u ( n )$ and setting $u ( n ) = \mu ( n )$ instead is found to result in a fragile reconstructed system. Its iterations are unable to follow the training trajectory when even a small perturbation is added to the initial point. However, the random sampling of $u ( n )$ from the full Gaussian distribution $N ( \mu ( n ) , \sigma ( n ) )$ ) also results in inappropriate reconstructed system that is unable to reproduce the modeled trajectory at all. The desired neural network map that models the system (1) well is obtained when $u ( n )$ are sampled from the truncated normal distribution $N ( \mu ( n ) , \sigma ( n ) )$ with truncation at $0 . 1 \sigma$ . This particular value is not the single best one. We checked truncations between 0.01σ and σ and observed similarly good results in a sense that the resulting maps reproduced the modeled system.
