# II. HODGKIN-HUXLEY-TYPE MODEL

We consider a model of a physiological neuron based on the Hodgkin-Huxley formalism31, and also modifica-$\tan ^ { 3 2 }$ that is responsible for bistability in a certain parameter range when bursting oscillations coexist with a stable equilibrium point,

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tau \dot {V} = - I _ {C a} (V) - I _ {K} (V, n) - I _ {S} (V, S) - k I _ {K 2} (V), \\ \tau \dot {n} = \sigma \left[ n _ {\infty} (V) - n \right], \tag {1} \\ \end{array}
\tau_ {S} \dot {S} = S _ {\infty} (V) - S.$$

Here V , n and S are dynamical variables. In the considered parameter ranges the system (1) has a single unstable fixed point. The modification resulting in its stabilization is introduced via the function $I _ { K 2 } ( V )$ . It will be switched on and off by the coefficient $k \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ . We will consider the system (1) for varying $V _ { S }$ at $k = 0$ (the original system) and $k = 1$ (the modified system). All other numerical values of parameters as well as the functions included in these equations are given in Appendix $\mathrm { A } ,$ see Table I and Eqs. (A1).

System (1) is stiff since it has one slow and two fast variables with very different rates of oscillations. Effective numerical solution of a system like this is possible with specially designed methods. We will use a stiff solver implementing Radau method33.

Dynamics of the system (1) at $k = 0$ is illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2. Figure 1 represents busting oscillations at $V _ { s } = - 3 6$ . Observe that V and n oscillate fast while S is a slow variable. When VS gets larger spiking regime emerges as shown in Fig. 2 that is plotted at $V _ { S } = - 3 3$ . Solutions of the modified system at $k = 1$ are not shown since they are visually indistinguishable from those in Figs. 1 and 2.

Figure 3 shows how dynamics of the system (1) at $k = 0$ changes. Here $V _ { S }$ varies along the horizontal axis, time goes vertically and shades of gray indicate values of dynamical variable V recorded after omitting transients and aligned by the smallest minimum on the curve V . Burst in the left part of the figure looks like three stripes that vanish at $V _ { S } \approx - 3 3 . 7 3$ due to the bifurcation transition associated with a blue-sky catastrophe32,34. To the right of this point high frequency spiking oscillations appear that are represented in the diagram as a uniform texture.
