Specifically, we consider two events which occur at $\{ t _ { e 1 } , t _ { e 2 } \}$ . At $t _ { e 1 }$ , two parts of the obstacles shown in Figure 1.(a) are suddenly removed from the environment. Later, at $t _ { e 2 }$ , the exit door on the right hand side of the system is widened to double its original size (see Figure 2 for the updated geometry after both events). These events change the Neumann and Dirichlet boundary conditions of the differential equations respectively. So they will need to addressed systematically to obtain the full solution. The switching times are $t _ { e 1 } = 2 , \ t _ { e 2 } = 5$ in minutes.

Algorithm 1 is implemented to obtain the solution for the dynamics in (31),(32) with these transitions. However, the Newton iterations require a good initial guess $Z ^ { ( 0 ) }$ for the scheme to work properly. Hence, the system is split into separate problems based on the corresponding intervals $\{ [ 0 , t _ { e _ { 1 } } ] , [ \bar { t _ { e _ { 1 } } } , t _ { e _ { 2 } } ] , [ t _ { e _ { 2 } } , T ] \}$ , and their individual solutions are patched together to form the initial guess for the full system.

The velocity plot of the solution is shown in Figure 2 at a time after both events have occurred. It is observed that people move between the obstacles towards the corridors at the sides and then use the doors. The density evolution at certain points in time is shown in Figure 3. It is found that the scheme effectively captures congestion effects and ensures that the velocity remains tangential to the walls.
