where we note that many cryptosystems (including LWEbased schemes) provide a dedicated and efficient operation $\ " \textcircled { \bullet } \ast \ast$ , which does not rely on multiple additions. Furthermore, additively homomorphic cryptosystem also support encrypted subtractions, which we denote by $" \ominus "$ . Second, the cryptosystems of interest consider messages x from a finite set such $\mathrm { a s , }$ e.g., the set of integers modulo q denoted by $\mathbb { Z } _ { q } .$ . Staying within this set during the encrypted operations, i.e., avoiding overflows, is crucial for flawless operation. Third, we use public key schemes, i.e., encryptions are enabled by a public key pk and only decryptions require the secret sk. Hence, encryptions and also homomorphic operations can be carried out by any party, but only a party holding the secret key is able to recover the corresponding plaintexts. Fourth, we can consider multiple instances of a cryptosystem and use key switches to transfer ciphertexts from one instance to another. We denote the public and secret key of an instance i with $\mathtt { p k } _ { i }$ and $\mathsf { s k } _ { i } ,$ respectively. Further, Enci and $\mathsf { D e c } _ { i }$ refer to the corresponding encryption and decryption procedures, respectively. Finally, we can transform ciphertexts $\mathsf { E n c } _ { i } ( x )$ to $\mathsf { E n c } _ { j } ( x )$ by homomorphically switching the underlying secret key from $\mathtt { s k } _ { i }$ to $\mathtt { s k } _ { j }$ (see [11, App. B] for an overview). Such procedures, which we will abbreviate with $\mathsf { E n c } _ { i \to j } ( x )$ , require $\mathsf { E n c } _ { j } ( \mathsf { s k } _ { i } )$ , i.e., an encryption of the secret key ski by means of Encj, and can then efficiently be realized based on homomorphic addition and $" \odot "$ (see [8, Sect. 4.2] for details).

Now, applying a leveled FHE scheme to encrypt computations requires some preparation. First, messages to be encrypted need to be integers within the supported finite set. For instance, evaluating the updates (7) in an encrypted fashion requires mapping the $( z _ { i } ^ { \tau + 1 } ) _ { k _ { i } } \mathrm { t o } , \mathbf { e } . \mathbf { g } . , \mathbb { Z } _ { q }$ . We use a simple but established mapping

$$\left\lfloor s \cdot (z _ {i} ^ {\tau + 1}) _ {k _ {i}} \right] \mod q, \tag {11}$$
