Remark 2.1. By (1.1) and (2.4), we have $w _ { x } ( 1 , t ) = b u ( t ) = b \zeta ( t ) u _ { 0 } ( t )$ . Although the observer (2.5) is well-posed, the new control coefficient $b \zeta ( t )$ of $u _ { 0 } ( t )$ remains unknown until estimation (2.11). Consequently, the design of $u _ { 0 }$ may still remain challenging. This implies that the separation principle based on the observer (2.5) cannot be directly applied to the output feedback design of system (1.1), even if full state estimation (2.9) is available. On the other hand, according to Theorem 2.1, the state estimation in (2.9) holds true as long as $u _ { 0 } \in W$ . Consequently, we can stabilize the control plant (1.1) via stabilizing the state observer (2.5). Given that the coefficient of controller $u _ { 0 }$ in the state observer in (2.5) always equals 1, stabilizing the state observer becomes straightforward and feasible. This feature is particularly significant for observer-based controller designs when the control coefficient b is unknown.

Remark 2.2. By the conventional definition [17], the signal $u _ { 0 }$ satisfies the persistent excitation condition means that there exist constants $\tau , t _ { 0 }$ and $c _ { 0 }$ such that

$$\int_ {t} ^ {t + \tau} | u _ {0} (s) | ^ {2} d s \geq c _ {0} > 0, \forall t > t _ {0} \geq 0, \tau > 0. \tag {2.12}$$

Clearly, the function $u _ { 0 }$ that meets (2.12) always meets the persistent excitation condition (2.10). Therefore, our assumption (2.10) is not stronger than the conventional persistent excitation condition (2.12).
