# Runtime Monitoring Policies and Certificates

We now present our algorithms for runtime monitoring of a policy by monitoring it together with a certificate function. These algorithms present the first step in our solution to the two problems defined above. The second step, namely policy and certificate repair, will follow in the next section. The runtime monitoring algorithms apply to general policies and certificate functions, not necessarily being neural networks.

Motivation for certificate monitoring. Given a dynamical system $\Sigma = ( \mathcal { X } , \mathcal { U } , f )$ and a property of interest, a monitor is a function $\mathcal { M } : \mathcal { X } ^ { + }  \{ 0 , 1 \}$ that maps each finite sequence of system states to a verdict on whether the sequence violates the property. This means that the monitor can only detect violations with respect to properties whose violations can be observed from finite state trajectories. This includes safety properties where violations can be observed upon reaching the unsafe set, but not infinite-time horizon properties like stability which requires the state trajectory to asymptotically converge to the goal set in the limit. In contrast, monitoring both the control policy and the certificate function allows the monitor to issue a verdict on either (1) property violation, or (2) certificate violation, i.e. violation of one of the defining conditions in Proposition 1 for barrier functions or Proposition 2 for Lyapunov functions. By Propositions 1 and 2, we know that the barrier function or the Lyapunov function being correct provides a formal proof of the safety or the stability property. Hence, in order to show that there are no property violations and that the property of interest is satisfied, it suffices to show that there are no certificate violations which can be achieved by monitoring both the control policy and the certificate function.
