# 4.2.1. Magnetic storm datasets for simulations

Magnetic storms, caused by solar activity such as solar wind and sunspots, lead to significant changes in the Earth’s geomagnetic field. These storms typically progress through three phases: the initial, main, and recovery phases, lasting from several hours to a few days, during which geomagnetic components fluctuate significantly (Li et al., 2024). This study uses real geomagnetic data from global magnetic observatories, interpolated with Kriging algorithms to fill missing points (Hu and Xu, 2024). The dataset is divided into latitude blocks of 10°, and station data is categorized accordingly using the SuperMAG open-source code (Gjerloev, 2024). In this section, the simulation extracting the varying magnetic field data first performs Kriging interpolation for missing points before calculating total magnetic field strength $\mathrm { d } B _ { H }$ . The sign of $d B _ { H }$ is based on the positive or negative sign of d $\boldsymbol { { \cdot } } \boldsymbol { { B } } _ { x }$ . Then, a table of global geomagnetic anomaly mapping is created based on latitude, longitude, $d B _ { H } , d B _ { x }$ , and $d B _ { y }$ . The total magnetic field strength calculation equation is as follows:

$$d B _ {H} = \frac {\left| d B _ {x} \right|}{d B _ {x}} \times \sqrt {d B _ {x} ^ {2} + d B _ {y} ^ {2}}, \tag {64}$$

The solar flare released high-energy particles that increased the particle density and energy in the Earth’s magnetosphere, disrupting the magnetic field and causing a geomagnetic storm (De Michelis et al., 2010). To analyze the impact of different types of magnetic storm interference on the geomagnetic field. This paper selects two distinct periods for this analysis:

• Dataset for long-term, slowly varying interference: This dataset covers a period from 2:00 AM to 8:00 AM Beijing Time on May 11, 2024.

It captures a prolonged geomagnetic disturbance caused by active region AR3664, noted as the most severe geomagnetic storm since November 2004. Multiple full-halo coronal mass ejections occurred between May 8 and May 9, 2024, driving the storm (Cun, 2024a). This dataset, as shown in Fig. 5(a) is suitable for simulating and analyzing the effects of sustained magnetic fluctuations on navigation accuracy and stability over a longer period.

• Dataset for short-term, high-intensity interference: This dataset covers the period from 13:13 to 14:46 Beijing Time on May 6, 2024, during which an X4.5 X-ray flare erupted from active region AR3663. The flare caused a sharp increase in the particle density and energy in the Earth’s magnetosphere, leading to rapid geomagnetic field changes that peaked at an orange alert level before subsiding at 14:46 (Cun, 2024b). This dataset, as shown in Fig. 5(b) is useful for evaluating the impact of intense solar activity on the performance of navigation algorithms.
