# 4. Simulation and Experiment

The simulation platform is as follows: CPU: AMD Ryzen 7 5800H; Memory: 16.00GB; Main frequency: 3.20GHz; Software environment: MATLAB 2023b. The simulated experimental area selected is a rectangular region in the Pacific Ocean, which extends from (145◦E, 27◦N) to (165◦E, 34◦N). This study designates the coordinates (152◦E, 33◦N) as the starting location and (158◦E, 28◦N) as the destination location. In all scenarios, D and I real-time information are obtained from WMM2020 model.

In this paper, the parameters relating to the absolute positioning error of inertial navigation are presented in Table 1. These parameters include platform misalignment angles, speed error, east position error, north position error, and vertical position error. The parameters for the inertial navigation simulation are detailed in Table 2, which encompass the cover yaw angle,

Algorithm 1: Fc-MPC algorithm for geomagnetic and inertial combined navigation system.   
Input: $S_{0}, S_{d}, \lambda_{0}, \lambda_{d}, \varphi_{0}, \varphi_{d}, \theta_{1}, \theta_{2}, v_{1}, v_{2}, k=2,$ Fc-MPC parameters: A, B, N, Q, F, R,
Data fusion parameters: $F, Q_{c}, R_{c}, P_{0}, H_{B}$ 1 Constraints: $U_{min}, U_{max}, S_{min}, S_{max}$ , $S(0)=S_{0}$ Calculate d from the current location to destination;

2 while $d\dot{\epsilon}$ do

3 if k==2 then

4 G(k) calculated by Eq. (5)-Eq. (9);

5 else

6 Update $G(k+1)$ by Eq. (10);

7 end

8 Solve the optimization problem by Eq. (45);

9 Take the first result of $U(k)$ , $u^{*}(k)$ ;

10 Calculate $v_{k}$ and $\theta_{k}$ by Eq. (3)-Eq. (4);

11 Update $S(k+1)$ by Eq. (44);

12 Calculate geomagnetic location $(\lambda_{c(k)}, \varphi_{c(k)})^{T}$ ;

13 if $min(G(k))\dot{\sigma}$ then

14 Initializing $\delta X_{k}$ by Eq. (46);

15 Get inertial system location $(\lambda_{m(k)}, \varphi_{m(k)})^{T}$ ;

16 Calculate $\delta Z_{k}$ by Eq. (50);

17 Calculate $\delta \hat{X}_{k}$ by Eq. (52)-Eq. (55);

18 Calculate correction location $(\delta \hat{\lambda}_{(k)}, \delta \hat{\varphi}_{(k)})^{T}$ by Eq. (55)-Eq. (57);

19 Update geomagnetic system location $(\lambda_{c(k+1)}, \varphi_{c(k+1)})^{T}$ and inertial system location $(\lambda_{m(k+1)}, \varphi_{m(k+1)})^{T}$ ;

20 Update $(\lambda_{k+1}, \varphi_{k+1})^{T}$ by Eq. (58);

21 end

22 Update iteration time k=k+1, and distance d;

23 end

Output: Location $(\lambda, \varphi)^{T}$
