Alternatively, [16] exploits the equivalence between Koopman and contraction approaches for systems with a hyperbolic equilibrium point to learn contraction metrics from data for non-actuated systems. However, dealing with actuated systems generically requires bilinear, rather than linear, immersions [17]. Further, if the open-loop plant has multiple omega-limit sets, continuous one-to-one linear immersions do not exist [18]. Finally, [19] is the closest to the present paper, in the sense that it finds a constant matrix P such that $\delta x ^ { \top } P ^ { - 1 } \delta x$ is a control contraction metric for all systems compatible with the observed data and priors. However, as illustrated in the examples in Section V, limiting the search to stateindependent metrics can lead to infeasible problems, even if a state-dependent contraction metric exists.

Contributions: To address the issues noted above, we introduce a novel convex data-driven formulation for finding Riemannian control contraction metrics directly from noisy data. Specifically, our contributions are:

1) A framework for non-conservatively recasting the datadriven control contraction problem, where the Riemannian metrics are restricted to the second-order polynomial matrices, into a sum-of-squares (SOS) problem. By working directly with an exact characterization of the set of all plants consistent with the observed data and priors, this formulation avoids the conservatism entailed in overbounding this set or the noise description.   
2) A reformulation of the above problem as a functional Linear Program (LP), which via duality is independent of the parameters of the unknown plant.   
3) Recasting this functional LP as a finite-dimensional Semi-Definite Program (SDP). Notably, the maximal size of the matrices in this SDP is at least O((order of the system)2) smaller than those appearing in the original SOS problem, resulting in substantial computational complexity reduction.

The paper is organized as follows: Section II provides the definitions and theorems that will be used throughout the paper, along with the problem definition. Section III presents a sufficient condition that solves the problem exploiting Lagrange duality. Section IV develops a tractable relaxation of the dual optimization problem. Section V illustrates these results with numerical examples. Finally, Section VI presents conclusions and directions for future research.
