# 5.1 System dynamics and control task

For our case study, we consider mobile robots moving on a plane with linear dynamics of the form

$$x _ {i} (t + 1) = A _ {i} x _ {i} (t) + B _ {i} u _ {i} (t) \tag {17a}y _ {i} (t) = C _ {i} x _ {i} (t), \tag {17b}$$

where t ∈ N denotes a discrete time step. For simplicity, we assume that all agents have double-integrator dynamics (discretized with a sample time of $\Delta t : = 1 )$ in both longitudinal and transversal direction, with $u _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ reflecting accelerations in the corresponding directions. Further, the outputs $y _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ reflect the robot’s position in a global coordinate system on the plane. We omit details on the corresponding matrices $A _ { i } , B _ { i } ,$ and $C _ { i }$ for brevity. We specify the formation based on the robot’s relative positions. More precisely, for neighboring agents, the operator specifies a desired (possibly time-varying) displacement $d _ { i j } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ ideally reflecting $y _ { i } ( t ) - y _ { j } ( t )$ . We here assume consistency of the desired displacements and, in particular, $d _ { i j } ( t ) = - d _ { j i } ( t )$ . Now, in order to efficiently achieve the formation, each agent i is supposed to minimize the cost function

$$r \left\| U _ {i} (t) - U _ {i} (t - 1) \right\| _ {2} ^ {2} + \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}} \left\| Y _ {i} (t) - Y _ {j} (t) - D _ {i j} (t) \right\| _ {2} ^ {2} \tag {18}$$

on a receding horizon with N ∈ N prediction steps, where

$$
U _ {i} (t) := \left( \begin{array}{c} u _ {i} (t) \\ u _ {i} (t + 1) \\ \vdots \\ u _ {i} (t + N - 1) \end{array} \right) \quad \text { and } \quad Y _ {i} (t) := \left( \begin{array}{c} y _ {i} (t + 1) \\ y _ {i} (t + 2) \\ \vdots \\ y _ {i} (t + N) \end{array} \right)
$$

denote stacked input and output sequences, respectively, and where the sequence $D _ { i j } ( t )$ is defined analogously. A special role is taken by the first agent, who acts as a leader, who is additionally supposed to follow a (possibly timevarying) reference trajectory. Hence, for $\textit { i } = \textit { 1 }$ , the term $\eta \parallel Y _ { 1 } ( t ) - Y _ { \mathrm { 1 , r e f } } ( t ) \parallel _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ is added to (18), where $Y _ { 1 , \mathrm { r e f } } ( t )$ reflects a sequence of reference outputs $y _ { 1 , \mathrm { r e f } } ( t )$ . The weighting factors r and η can be used to emphasize certain terms in the cost functions.
