To overcome these limitations, we advocate the runtime monitoring of neural network policies together with certificate functions and propose two new monitoring algorithms. We are not aware of any prior method that utilizes certificate functions for the runtime monitoring of control policies. The first algorithm, called Certificate Policy Monitor (CertPM), issues a warning whenever either the property or some of the defining conditions of the certificate are violated. The second algorithm, called Predictive Policy Monitor (PredPM), goes a step further by estimating the remaining time until the property or some certificate condition may be violated, and issues a warning if this time is below some tolerable threshold. Experimental results demonstrate the ability of CertPM and PredPM to detect the property or certificate condition violating behaviors. Furthermore, we show that CertPM and PredPM allow our method to repair and significantly improve neural policies and certificates computed by a stateof-the-art learning-based control theory method.

Our contributions can be summarized as follows:

1. Runtime monitoring of policies and certificates. We design two novel algorithms for the runtime monitoring of control policies and certificates in the black-box setting.   
2. Monitoring-based policy and certificate repair. By extracting additional training data from warnings issued by our monitors, we design a novel method for automated repair of neural network control policies and certificates.   
3. Empirical evaluation. Our prototype successfully repairs neural network control policies and certificates computed by a state-of-the-art learning-based control method.

Related work. Related works on learning-based control with certificate functions, as well as on formal verification of learned control policies and certificates in the white-box setting, have been discussed above, so we omit repetition. In what follows, we discuss some other related lines of work.
