# 3 Observer-based stabilizer

This section is devoted to the observer-based stabilizer design for the system (1.1). Taking the observation error (2.6) into account, the state observer in (2.5) can be rewritten as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \hat {w} _ {t} (x, t) = \hat {w} _ {x x} (x, t), \\ \hat {w} _ {x} (0, t) = - q \hat {w} (0, t) - q \tilde {w} (0, t), \\ \hat {w} _ {x} (1, t) = u _ {0} (t) + c _ {1} \tilde {w} (1, t). \end{array} \right. \tag {3.1}
$$

By Theorem 2.1, $\| w ( \cdot , t ) - \hat { w } ( \cdot , t ) \| _ { \mathcal { H } } \to 0$ as $t \to + \infty$ provided $u _ { 0 } \in W$ . In this case, the stabilization of system (1.1) can come down to stabilization of system (3.1). Since $\| \tilde { w } ( \cdot , t ) \| _ { \mathcal { H } } \to 0$ and the unknown control coefficient b does not appear in the observer (3.1), we can stabilize the observer (3.1) easily by ignoring the ˜w-parts. Indeed, in view of the feedback (2.1), the controller $u _ { 0 }$ can be designed as

$$u _ {0} (t) = - (q + c _ {0}) \left[ \hat {w} (1, t) + q \int_ {0} ^ {1} e ^ {q (1 - x)} \hat {w} (x, t) d x \right], \tag {3.2}$$

under which we get the closed-loop system of system (1.1)

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} w _ {t} (x, t) = w _ {x x} (x, t), \\ w _ {x} (0, t) = - q w (0, t), \\ w _ {x} (1, t) = - b \left(q + c _ {0}\right) \zeta (t) \left[ \hat {w} (1, t) + q \int_ {0} ^ {1} e ^ {q (1 - x)} \hat {w} (x, t) d x \right], \\ \hat {w} _ {t} (x, t) = \hat {w} _ {x x} (x, t), \\ \hat {w} _ {x} (0, t) = - q w (0, t), \\ \hat {w} _ {x} (1, t) = - \left(q + c _ {0}\right) \left[ \hat {w} (1, t) + q \int_ {0} ^ {1} e ^ {q (1 - x)} \hat {w} (x, t) d x \right] + c _ {1} [ w (1, t) - \hat {w} (1, t) ], \\ \dot {\zeta} (t) = \operatorname{sgn} (b) \left(q + c _ {0}\right) [ w (1, t) - \hat {w} (1, t) ] \left[ \hat {w} (1, t) + q \int_ {0} ^ {1} e ^ {q (1 - x)} \hat {w} (x, t) d x \right]. \end{array} \right. \tag {3.3}
$$

Theorem 3.1. Let $q > 0 , b \neq 0 , c _ { 0 } > 0$ and $c _ { 1 } > 0$ . Suppose that the sign of b is known. Then, for any initial state $( w ( \cdot , 0 ) , \hat { w } ( \cdot , 0 ) , \zeta ( 0 ) ) \in \mathcal { H } ^ { 2 } \times \mathbb { R }$ , the closed-loop system (3.3) admits a weak solution $( w ( \cdot , t ) , \hat { w } ( \cdot , t ) , \zeta ( t ) ) \in C ( 0 , \infty ; \mathcal { H } ^ { 2 } \times \mathbb { R } )$ such that

$$| \zeta (t) - \zeta_ {0} | + \| (w (\cdot , t), \hat {w} (\cdot , t)) \| _ {\mathcal {H} ^ {2}} \rightarrow 0 \text {as} t \rightarrow + \infty , \tag {3.4}$$

where $\zeta _ { 0 }$ is a constant that may not be $\textstyle { \frac { 1 } { b } } .$

Remark 3.1. In Theorem 3.1, we have not verified the persistent excitation condition (2.10) for the function $u _ { 0 }$ in (3.2). In fact, the stability of the closed-loop system (3.3) always implies that the function $u _ { 0 }$ is not persistently exciting. This will be proved in Lemma 6.2 and demonstrated visually through numerical simulations in Section 8.
