Our contributions. In this work, we propose a method for analyzing and repairing neural network policies and certificates in the black-box setting. While guaranteeing correctness in the black-box setting is not possible without further assumptions on the dynamics, our method is based on theoretical foundations of provably correct control as it uses both neural policies and certificates of their correctness in order to achieve successful repair. More specifically, our method uses runtime monitoring to detect system behaviors that violate the property of interest or the certificate defining conditions. These behaviors are used to extract additional training data, which is then used by the training algorithm to re-train and ultimately repair the neural policy and the certificate. Our method consists of two modules – called the monitor and the learner, which are composed in a loop as shown in Fig. 1. The loop is executed until the monitor can no longer find property or certificate condition violating behaviors, upon which our algorithm concludes that the neural policy and the certificate have been repaired.

While the idea of using runtime monitors to identify incorrect behaviors is natural, it introduces several subtle challenges whose overcoming turns out to be highly non-trivial. The first and obvious approach to runtime monitoring of a control policy in isolation is to simply test it, flag runs that violate the property, and add visited states to the training set. However, such a simple monitor suffers from two significant limitations. First, it can only be used to monitor violations of properties that can be observed from finite trajectories such as safety, but not of properties that are defined by the limiting behavior such as stability. Second, the simple monitor detects property violations only after they happen, meaning that it cannot identify states and actions that do not yet violate the property but inevitably lead to property violation. In contrast, in practice we are often able to predict in advance when some unsafe scenario may occur. For instance, if we drive a car in the direction of a wall at a high speed, then even before hitting the wall we can predict that a safety violation would occur unless we change the course of action.
