# References

Abate, A.; Ahmed, D.; Edwards, A.; Giacobbe, M.; and Peruffo, A. 2021a. FOSSIL: a software tool for the formal synthesis of lyapunov functions and barrier certificates using neural networks. In Bogomolov, S.; and Jungers, R. M., eds., HSCC ’21: 24th ACM International Conference on Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control, Nashville, Tennessee, May 19-21, 2021, 24:1–24:11. ACM.   
Abate, A.; Ahmed, D.; Giacobbe, M.; and Peruffo, A. 2021b. Formal Synthesis of Lyapunov Neural Networks. IEEE Control. Syst. Lett., 5(3): 773–778.   
Abate, A.; Edwards, A.; Giacobbe, M.; Punchihewa, H.; and Roy, D. 2023. Quantitative Verification with Neural Networks. In Pérez, G. A.; and Raskin, J., eds., 34th International Conference on Concurrency Theory, CONCUR 2023, September 18-23, 2023, Antwerp, Belgium, volume 279 of LIPIcs, 22:1–22:18. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik.   
Achiam, J.; Held, D.; Tamar, A.; and Abbeel, P. 2017. Constrained policy optimization. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 22–31. PMLR.   
Ahmadi, A. A.; and Majumdar, A. 2016. Some applications of polynomial optimization in operations research and realtime decision making. Optim. Lett., 10(4): 709–729.   
Alshiekh, M.; Bloem, R.; Ehlers, R.; Könighofer, B.; Niekum, S.; and Topcu, U. 2018. Safe Reinforcement Learning via Shielding. In McIlraith, S. A.; and Weinberger, K. Q., eds., Proceedings of the Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, (AAAI-18), the 30th innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence (IAAI-18), and the 8th AAAI Symposium on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence (EAAI-18), New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, February 2-7, 2018, 2669–2678. AAAI Press.   
Altman, E. 1999. Constrained Markov decision processes, volume 7. CRC Press.   
Ames, A. D.; Grizzle, J. W.; and Tabuada, P. 2014. Control barrier function based quadratic programs with application to adaptive cruise control. In CDC, 6271–6278. IEEE.
