Prajapati and Vashista [42] investigated the possible uses of physical interaction between human and aerial vehicles in outdoor environments. They introduced a setup involving a rigid object lifted by both a human and a quadcopter from its extremities. A custom sensor systems designed to interpret human commands and provide reliable state feedback. Linearization of the dynamic equations of the system and state-feedback control techniques were utilized to control the quadrotor for collaborative payload transportation. Xu et al. [43] introduced a visual impedance control approach for collaborative transportation between a human and a tethered aerial vehicle. Using the force of the cable and the features of the visual objects as feedback, the aerial vehicle follows the human operator. The proposed technique incorporates a vision-based velocity observer to estimate the relative velocity between the aerial vehicle and the human. The system is designed for indoor application where a human participant transported a bar with the assistance of the tethered aerial vehicle. In Romano et al. [44], a cooperative payload transport system guided by haptic feedback was investigated. This system comprises a team of five quadrotors linked to a payload via tethers. The Human partner can provide haptic guidance commands by exerting force on the suspended payload,and the system estimates the applied force and its direction. A centralized payload controller directs the quadrotors to follow the desired trajectory.
