Amodei, D.;
Olah, C.;
Steinhardt, J.;
Christiano, P.
F.;
Schulman, J.;
and Mané, D.
2016.
Concrete Problems in AI Safety.
CoRR, abs/1606.06565.
Ansaripour, M.;
Chatterjee, K.;
Henzinger, T.
A.;
Lechner, M.;
and Zikelic, D.
2023.
Learning Provably Stabilizing Neural Controllers for Discrete-Time Stochastic Systems.
In André, É.;
and Sun, J., eds., Automated Technology for Verification and Analysis - 21st International Symposium, ATVA 2023, Singapore, October 24-27, 2023, Proceedings, Part I, volume 14215 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 357– 379.
Springer.
Bauer-Marquart, F.;
Boetius, D.;
Leue, S.;
and Schilling, C.
2022.
SpecRepair: Counter-Example Guided Safety Repair of Deep Neural Networks.
In Legunsen, O.;
and Rosu, G., eds., Model Checking Software - 28th International Symposium, SPIN 2022, Virtual Event, May 21, 2022, Proceedings, volume 13255 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 79– 96.
Springer.
Bloem, R.;
Könighofer, B.;
Könighofer, R.;
and Wang, C.
2015.
Shield Synthesis: - Runtime Enforcement for Reactive Systems.
In TACAS, volume 9035 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 533–548.
Springer.
Carr, S.;
Jansen, N.;
Junges, S.;
and Topcu, U.
2023.
Safe Reinforcement Learning via Shielding under Partial Observability.
In AAAI, 14748–14756.
AAAI Press.
Chang, Y.;
Roohi, N.;
and Gao, S.
2019.
Neural Lyapunov Control.
In Wallach, H.
M.;
Larochelle, H.;
Beygelzimer, A.;
d’Alché-Buc, F.;
Fox, E.
B.;
and Garnett, R., eds., Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2019, NeurIPS 2019, December 8-14, 2019, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 3240–3249.
Chatterjee, K.;
Henzinger, T.
A.;
Lechner, M.;
and Zikelic, D.
2023.
A Learner-Verifier Framework for Neural Network Controllers and Certificates of Stochastic Systems.
In Sankaranarayanan, S.;
and Sharygina, N., eds., Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems - 29th International Conference, TACAS 2023, Held as Part of the European Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of Software, ETAPS 2022, Paris, France, April 22-27, 2023, Proceedings, Part I, volume 13993 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 3–25.
Springer.
Chow, Y.;
Nachum, O.;
Duéñez-Guzmán, E.
A.;
and Ghavamzadeh, M.
2018.
A Lyapunov-based Approach to Safe Reinforcement Learning.
In Bengio, S.;
Wallach, H.
M.;
Larochelle, H.;
Grauman, K.;
Cesa-Bianchi, N.;
