# 3.1 Switching Hybrid System

Consider the system of governing equations for ${ \mathrm { M F G } } ,$ , as given in (15),(16), which has a forward-backward structure with the initial and terminal conditions specified in (17). Now, suppose there are discrete events that may cause discontinuities in the dynamics. These events may involve changes in spatial boundary conditions, alterations to the Hamiltonian’s structure, or variations in the noise parameter $\nu ,$ thereby causing sudden changes in the governing equation (15), (16) or the boundary conditions. We assume that these events occur at a prescribed set of time independent of the agents’ individual states, and there is no reset of the state. The resulting system corresponds to a stochastic hybrid system without guard and reset, and it is referred to as switching hybrid system in this paper.

Let the switching events occur at time indices $\{ e _ { 1 } , \ldots , e _ { N _ { s } } \}$ , where $N _ { s }$ denotes the total number of switches. The trajectory is divided into intervals between these switching events, with solutions computed separately for each interval and patched together across the entire time horizon. In short, the flow consists of a sequence of continuous flow sections concatenated with switching events.

The governing equations for each continuous flow section remain consistent, but are distinct from other sections. The solution is interconnected at the switching points by the initial and terminal conditions. Given the values of $u ( T , x )$ and $m ( 0 , x )$ , additional constraints are imposed to match the trajectories of the value function and the density at the switching times. For example, $u ( t _ { e _ { 1 } } , x )$ and $m ( t _ { e _ { 1 } } , x )$ must align for the trajectory segments between $( t _ { e _ { 0 } } , t _ { e _ { 1 } } )$ and $( t _ { e _ { 1 } } , \bar { t } _ { e _ { 2 } } ) , \mathrm { e . g . } , u ( t _ { e _ { 1 } } ^ { - } , x ) = u ( t _ { e _ { 1 } } ^ { + } , x )$ .

These matching conditions guarantee the consistency of the solution across switching events, allowing the solution to be concatenated seamlessly. In summary, we present a computational scheme to solve the forward-backward structure of the partial differential equations while addressing the switching dynamics and the additional internal boundary conditions.
