In this paper, we will address the problems that is resulted in the unknown control coefficient by the adaptive control approach. A new update law is devised to estimate the reciprocal of b rather than the control coefficient b itself. Meanwhile, a new state observer, that does not rely on the control coefficient and its estimation, is designed to estimate the system state effectively. We emphasize that the state estimation does not depend on the convergence of control coefficient estimation. As a consequence of this good characteristic of the state observer, a new adaptive control scheme is developed to stabilize the unstable heat equation (1.1) even if the control coefficient b is unknown. Additionally, if the controller meets the so called persistent excitation condition, the unknown control coefficient can be estimated effectively by the newly designed update law. We point out that the introduction of adaptive control approach in the controller design for the infinite-dimensional unstable system is not our original creation. In [11], [18], [19] and the references therein, the adaptive control approach, together with the backstepping technique, has been used successfully to deal with the heat equation with unknown unstable coefficient.

We proceed as follows. In Section 2, we present the update law for the reciprocal of b and present the state observer for system (1.1). An observer-based output feedback stabilizer is designed in Section 3. As an application of the results obtained in Sections 2 and 3, we consider the performance output tracking for system (1.1) in Section 4. The main results in Sections 2, 3 and 4 are proved strictly in Sections 5, 6 and 7, respectively. The mathematical proofs arranged in these sections can be skipped if the reader is interested only in the design procedure. Some numerical simulations are presented in Section 8 to validate the theoretical results, followed by some conclusions in Section 9. A mathematical result that is less relevant to the feedback or observer design is arranged in Appendix.

For the sake of simplicity, we drop the obvious temporal and spatial domains in the rest of the paper. Throughout the article, H denotes the Hilbert space $L ^ { 2 } ( 0 , 1 )$ which is equipped with an inner product

$$\langle f, g \rangle_ {\mathcal {H}} = \int_ {0} ^ {1} f (x) g (x) d x, \forall f, g \in \mathcal {H}. \tag {1.2}$$

We denote the set of functions W as

$$W = \{f + g \mid f \in L ^ {\infty} (0, \infty), g \in L ^ {2} (0, \infty) \}. \tag {1.3}$$
