Constrained reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms consider constrained Markov decision processes (CMDPs) (Altman 1999; Geibel 2006) and are also concerned with learning policies under safety constraints. An agent in a CMDP needs to maximize expected reward while satisfying hard constraints on expected cost for auxiliary cost functions. Notable examples of algorithms for solving CMDPs include Constrained Policy Optimization (CPO) (Achiam et al. 2017) or the method of (Chow et al. 2018) which uses a Lyapunov based approach. While these algorithms perform well, they are empirical in nature and do not provide any mechanism for checking correctness of learned policies.

Shielding (Bloem et al. 2015; Alshiekh et al. 2018) is an approach to ensuring the correctness of control policies with respect to safety properties that also utilizes runtime monitoring (Könighofer et al. 2020; Pranger et al. 2021; Carr et al. 2023). These methods use a monitor to detect if the system is close to reaching an unsafe set of states and thus violating the safety property. In such cases, the system switches to a back-up policy which is known to be safe and moves the system away from the unsafe region. A back-up policy can also be designed by reasoning about certificates, e.g. (Zhu et al. 2019). However, there are two fundamental differences between our method and shielding. First, our method does not assume the existence of a backup policy. Second, our method can also be used to repair a control policy, in cases when it is determined to be incorrect. Apart from shielding, runtime monitoring has been extensively used in the field of runtime verification as a more lightweight alternative to formal verification or when errors are only triggered at runtime (Falcone and Pinisetty 2019; Renard et al. 2019; Zhou et al. 2020). Runtime monitoring and repair of neural network policies, but without using certificates, was considered in (Bauer-Marquart et al. 2022; Lyu et al. 2023).
