Moreover, the (z) direction graph shows that the altitude of the system increased to the appropriate operating height and maintained the same altitude until it reached the destination and finally landed while the velocity graph shows the related velocity profile. Furthermore, Figure 6 shows the normalized tracking errors of the system for the the orientation, position, and linear velocity, respectively. It can be noticed the errors of position and the velocity were driven to zero and kept at zero during the entire mission time, indicating the robust performance of the proposed controller. On the other hand, the orientation error shows some fluctuations which are related to the high rolling and pitching control inputs at the start and stop points of the system due to high inertia, however the error is bounded and driven to zero by the controller at each point.

Figure 7 shows the calculated control inputs that include the total thrust, rolling, pitching, and yawing moments calculated according to the proposed NFTSMC position and attitude controllers. It can be seen that the controllers took appropriate actions to stabilize the system at the disturbed starting point in the beginning of the simulation. Then, they returned back to their normal rhythm to generate the control signals making the system performed appropriate navigation under the simulated human guidance. The human guidance and interaction with the system in a 3D environment is depicted in Figure 8. The plots illustrate the external forces applied (solid blue) on the center of mass (CoM) of the payload, alongside with the system’s reference trajectories (dotted red) in the x, y, and z directions. The dashed black lines represent the thresholds that regulate the transition between the actions of the admittance controller (gray-shaded areas) and the position controller (white areas) which work together to achieve the transportation task.
