# 1 Introduction

Recent advances in communication technology and cloud computing lead to an increased connectivity of control systems. The interconnection of these (cyber-physical) systems enables new features and can offer improved efficiency, performance, and safety. Examples range from vehicle to vehicle communication for collision avoidance in road traffic to process optimization of spatially distributed factories. However, sensitive data can hinder these applications because external processing on not necessarily trustworthy platforms is required. In principle, tailored cryptosystems such as homomorphic encryption (HE, see [17] for an illustrative survey) can solve this issue as they allow for privacy-preserving computations on encrypted data. However, the application of these cryptosytems especially for control purposes is non-trivial and has motivated the young research field of encrypted control (see [24] for an overview). Tailored encrypted implementations have been realized for various control schemes, including linear feedback [9, 12, 13] and model predictive control [4, 22]. However, most of the existing schemes consider cloud-based centralized control. In fact, encrypted distributed control for multi-agent systems (MAS) is still in its infancy.

In this paper, we focus on privacy-preserving cooperative control by means of distributed optimization. Distributed optimal control is essential for various applications such as electrical power grids [15] or robot formation [19, 27]. Privacypreserving implementations offer promising features, e.g., for the usage of smart meters or for autonomous driving. In order to leverage this potential, flexible and universally usable implementations are required. Hence, we use the general consensus problem and a solution via the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM, see [6]) as a basis. Remarkably, privacy-preserving general consensus and distributed ADMM have both been addressed before, and we briefly summarize related work next. However, we argue that crucial features for an extensive use have not been taken into account yet, which motivates our contribution.
