While the above approach guides the learning algorithm towards a correct certificate, it does not guarantee that the output control policy or the certificate function is correct. To address this issue, a number of recent works have considered the white-box setting which assumes complete knowledge of the environment dynamics and formally verifies the correctness of the certificate function. Notable examples include methods for learning and verifying neural Lyapunov functions (Abate et al. 2021b; Chang, Roohi, and Gao 2019; Richards, Berkenkamp, and Krause 2018) and neural barrier functions (Abate et al. 2021a; Zhang et al. 2023; Zhao et al. 2020). More recently, to incorporate environment uncertainty, several works have gone a step beyond and considered neural certificates in possibly stochastic environments (Abate et al. 2023; Ansaripour et al. 2023; Chatterjee et al. 2023; Lechner et al. 2022; Mathiesen, Calvert, and Laurenti 2023; Mazouz et al. 2022; Zhi et al. 2024; Zikelic et al. 2023a,b), assuming complete knowledge of the uncertainty model. While there are several methods that learn control policies together with certificates in the black-box setting, e.g. (Dawson et al. 2021; Qin, Sun, and Fan 2022; Qin et al. 2021), to the best of our knowledge no prior method considers the problem of analyzing and certifying their correctness in the black-box setting, without assuming any knowledge on the dynamics. In this setting, one cannot guarantee the correctness of certificate functions at every system state as we do not have access to the system model at each state. However, we may still use more lightweight techniques to evaluate the control policy and the certificate and to repair them in cases when they are found to be incorrect.
