Mean field games can be integrated with hybrid dynamical systems, where discrete events or transitions are triggered by external conditions, thresholds, or state-dependent events within interactions among large populations. For example, this approach could model traffic flow with vehicles that switch between different driving modes (e.g., autonomous vs. manual control) based on traffic conditions and efficiency. Hybrid mean field games have been formulated for linear Gaussian systems to investigate optimal switching and stopping times [Firoozi et al., 2022], where each agent has stochastic linear dynamics with quadratic costs. This framework is applied to optimal execution problems in financial markets [Firoozi et al., 2017].

This paper addresses mean field games and controls for a more general class of hybrid systems that are not limited to quadratic costs for linear dynamics. Specifically, we consider cases where cost functions may include nonlinear, coupled terms between the mean field and the control input, and where the surrounding environment may undergo abrupt transitions in boundary conditions. We focus on computational methods to solve the governing equations for the proposed mean field games and controls for switching hybrid systems, represented by coupled integro-partial differential equations involving switching. Numerical solutions for these coupled forward-backward equations are obtained by discretizing space and time.

For a specific example of emergency evacuation, we investigate the unique behaviors in these hybrid settings and examine how they differ from those in standard mean field games. Additionally, we compare this solution with the case of the social optimum via mean field controls, in which agents coordinate with one another rather than competing.

In summary, the main contributions of this paper are the formulation of mean field games and controls for a specific class of hybrid systems and a computational framework for solving the resulting coupled governing equations under sudden environmental changes.

This paper is organized as follows. Mean field game theory with continuous dynamics is reviewed in Section 2, after which the numerical algorithm to solve the hybrid mean field game problem is presented in Section 3, followed by numerical examples in Section 4.
