# 4.1 Essentials on homomorphic encryption

HE enables computations on ciphertexts such that the privacy of the underlying plaintexts is preserved [17]. More formally, given two integer numbers x and y, a homomorphic cryptosystems can provide the basic operations “⊕” and $" \otimes ^ { , , }$ such that the relations

$$\operatorname{Dec} (\operatorname{Enc} (x) \oplus \operatorname{Enc} (y)) = x + y, \tag {9a}\operatorname{Dec} (\operatorname{Enc} (x) \otimes \operatorname{Enc} (y)) = x y \tag {9b}$$

hold, where Enc and Dec refer to the encryption and decryption procedure. In other words, (9a) and (9b) allow to securely carry out additions and multiplications, respectively, based on the ciphertexts $\mathtt { E n c } ( x )$ and $\mathtt { E n c } ( y )$ . More specifically, we call a cryptosystem additively homomorphic if (9a) is supported and multiplicatively homomorphic if (9b) is given. Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) enables both encrypted operations arbitrarily often, whereas a cryptosystem that provides a limited amount of consecutive encrypted operations (especially multiplications) is referred to as leveled FHE. Remarkably, FHE typically builds on a leveled FHE scheme, which is extended by a computationally demanding routine called bootstrapping. Loosely speaking, this routine allows to refresh a ciphertext after the computation limit is reached. Now, it will turn out that additive HE is, in principle, sufficient to encrypt the ADMM iterations. However, securely exchanging information between the agents will require a procedure called key switching, which is not provided by common additively homomorphic schemes such as [20]. Hence, we will later use leveled FHE but avoid bootstrapping for efficiency reasons. Implementation-wise, leveled FHE schemes usually built on variants of the learning with errors (LWE) problem [21]. Explaining details of the corresponding cryptosystems is beyond the scope of this paper. However, we briefly summarize relevant properties for our implementation.

First, any (at least) additively homomorphic cryptosystem also supports partially encrypted multiplications. In fact, for integers x and y, we obviously have

$$x \operatorname{Enc} (y) = \underbrace {\operatorname{Enc} (y) \oplus \cdots \oplus \operatorname{Enc} (y)} _ {x \text { times }} = x \odot \operatorname{Enc} (y), \tag {10}$$
