# I. INTRODUCTION

A. Motivation

B. Background

A SSISTIVE technology has gained significant interest inthe field of robotics in recent years. It plays a crucial the field of robotics in recent years. It plays a crucial role in various domains, including rehabilitation [1]–[5], aerial manipulation systems [6], [7], logistics [8], [9], precision agriculture [10], [11], and construction [12]–[14] by enhancing human capabilities and facilitating complex tasks. Underactuated quadrotor UAVs with their low cost, simple mechanical design, maneuverability, and, versatility offer promising potential as assistive devices in many fields. They can be used for assistive payload transportation through human physical interaction. This involves collaboration between human and quadrotors to transport and manipulate a payload. The goal of such collaborative systems is to reduce the workload of human and enable intuitive interaction between the operator and the aerial transportation system. Single quadrotors have been used in payload transportation to help human in delivering packages and medical supplies [15]–[17]. Although

This work was supported in part by the National Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), under the grants RGPIN-2022-04937. H. Naser, H. A. Hashim, and M. Ahmadi are with the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, K1S-5B6, Canada (e-mail: hhashim@carleton.ca).

using a single quadrotor in delivery operations has proven its effectiveness, it suffers from low weight capacity of the transported payload [18]–[20]. To overcome such problem, researchers have explored cooperative payload transportation in different configurations such as dual or multiple agents with suspended-load transportation. Different techniques and control algorithms have been proposed to achieve the cooperative transportation task [18], [21]–[29].
