# 2 Observer design

When b is known, the following controller can stabilize system (1.1) exponentially by using the method of partial differential equation backstepping [10]:

$$u (t) = - \frac {q + c _ {0}}{b} \left[ w (1, t) + q \int_ {0} ^ {1} e ^ {q (1 - x)} w (x, t) d x \right], \tag {2.1}$$

where $c _ { 0 }$ is a positive tuning parameter. However, when b is unknown, the situation becomes completely different. The unknown control coefficient b may give rise to great difficulties in the controller design. For example, the conventional approach to the controller design may be infeasible even if we have known the estimation

$$\hat {b} (t) \rightarrow b \text { as } t \rightarrow + \infty . \tag {2.2}$$

Actually, in terms of (2.2) and (2.1), the controller is designed naturally as

$$u (t) = - \frac {q + c _ {0}}{\hat {b} (t)} \left[ w (1, t) + q \int_ {0} ^ {1} e ^ {q (1 - x)} w (x, t) d x \right]. \tag {2.3}$$

However, the controller (2.3) is meaningless at time t if $\hat { b } ( t ) = 0$ which may take place and is hard to avoid in the convergence (2.2). Moreover, the unknown control coefficient can also affect the estimation/cancellation of the disturbance in the well-known Active Disturbance Rejection Control [5] and the solvability of the regulator equations in the Internal Model Principle [14], [15] and [16]. In summary, we will encounter great difficulties in the presence of unknown control coefficient.

In order to overcome the obstacles caused by the unknown control coefficient $b ,$ we propose a novel strategy that estimates the reciprocal of b rather than b itself. Additionally, we factorize the controller by

$$u (t) = \zeta (t) u _ {0} (t), \tag {2.4}$$

where $\zeta$ is used to compensate for the unknown b and $u _ { 0 }$ is a new controller. Both of them will be determined later. Thanks to the new controller type (2.4), the observer of system (1.1) can be designed as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \hat {w} _ {t} (x, t) = \hat {w} _ {x x} (x, t), \\ \hat {w} _ {x} (0, t) = - q w (0, t), \quad \hat {w} _ {x} (1, t) = u _ {0} (t) + c _ {1} [ w (1, t) - \hat {w} (1, t) ], \\ \dot {\zeta} (t) = - \operatorname{sgn} (b) [ w (1, t) - \hat {w} (1, t) ] u _ {0} (t), \end{array} \right. \tag {2.5}
$$
