Results: RQ2. We observed that the policy learned by SABLAS for the ship benchmark already achieves SR close to 100.00%, however, the learned barrier function provides significantly lower BR and NDR. Hence, we use the ship benchmark to answer RQ2 which is concerned with the repair of a certificate function for a given control policy. In this case, a good certificate function acts as a proof of correctness that allows more trustworthy policy deployment. Figure 2 shows what the number of certificate violations for the barrier function looks like before and after repair, for the ship benchmark with CertPM used as a monitor. The results demonstrate that there are significantly fewer certificate violations upon repair. Additionally, we conducted the same experiment for the drone benchmark, and also observed significant level of improvement in BR and NDR upon repair. We refer to the Appendix for more results.

Results: RQ3. Recall that PredPM considers safety properties and monitors the control policy together with the barrier function. Upon each new observation, it computes an estimate vU on the remaining time before the safety property may be violated, $v _ { S }$ on the remaining time before the Safety condition of barrier functions may be violated, and $v _ { N }$ on the remaining time before the Non-decreasing condition of barrier functions may be violated. Figure 3 shows how these estimates change along two different executions for DroneEnv and ShipEnv. It can be seen that $v _ { S }$ becomes negative before $v _ { U }$ , meaning the system is estimated to violate the Safety condition of barrier functions before it reaches the unsafe region. Hence, by tracking $v _ { S } ,$ , PredPM can predict unsafe behaviors and raise warnings before they happen. In comparison to the others, there are more estimated violations of the Non-decreasing condition. This means that $\xi _ { N }$ can be set to a lower value, as we tend to consider the other two violations to be more severe. Overall, the experiments suggest PredPM can be particularly well-suited for runtime use, in addition to repairing neural networks.
