# 1 Introduction

Systems with unknown control coefficient are ubiquitous in many fields of engineering, even for the infinite-dimensional system. However, compared with the works on the finite-dimensional system in literature, the problem caused by unknown control coefficient is rarely considered for the infinitedimensional system. To the best of our knowledge, the estimation of unknown control coefficient in unstable infinite-dimensional systems is still a challenging problem until now. It is quite difficult to achieve the desired system performance when the control coefficient is unknown. In this paper, we present an adaptive approach to address the problem caused by unknown control coefficient through the following benchmark unstable heat system:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} w _ {t} (x, t) = w _ {x x} (x, t), x \in (0, 1), t > 0, \\ w _ {x} (0, t) = - q w (0, t), w _ {x} (1, t) = b u (t), t \geq 0, q > 0, \\ y (t) = (w (0, t), w (1, t)), t \geq 0, \end{array} \right. \tag {1.1}
$$

where w is the system state, u is the control input, y is the measurement output and $b \neq 0$ is the unknown control coefficient. The model (1.1) is a general one-dimensional heat equation with boundary convection. It depicts the flow of heat in a rod that is insulated everywhere except the two ends. The convection at the left end is proportional to the temperature $w ( 0 , t )$ . It may destroy the system stability. The actuator with control coefficient b is installed on the right end $x = 1$ . The control coefficient b depends usually on many factors such as the specific heat capacity, the area of cross-section, the density as well as the thermal conductivity of the rod. It may be unknown in the practical applications. The more details of physical modeling of heat equation can be found in [9].

System (1.1) is unstable provided $q > 1$ [19]. The unstable heat systems have been extensively studied in recent years. Some representative works can be found in [13], [20], [21], [1], [4] and the monograph [10], where the partial differential equation backstepping method has been used to cope with the unstable term. Although the method of backstepping is powerful, it relies on the precise information on the control coefficient which may be unknown in practical applications. Therefore, how to stabilize the infinite-dimensional systems, including the unstable heat system (1.1), with unknown control coefficient is still an unsolved issue.
