# 2.3 Mean field control: social optimum

Another problem can be formulated with a similar structure of the dynamics and the cost function. In the case of MFG, each agent optimizes their own cost resulting in a non-cooperative game. An alternative model arises when agents cooperate with each other to identify the best collective strategy, minimizing the average cost for the group.

For MFG, the representative agent optimizes their cost in (8) assuming the strategies of other agents are fixed. In mean field control (MFC), however, the common feedback directly influences the population distribution through the mean field term. Thus instead of a fixed point formulation, MFC can be cast as the solution of an optimal control problem driven by the stochastic dynamics.

Definition 2. (MFC equilibrium). The optimal feedback control $\alpha ^ { * }$ is determined as

$$\alpha^ {*} = \arg \min _ {\alpha} J ^ {M F C} (\alpha), \tag {9}$$

with the cost

$$J ^ {M F C} (\alpha) = \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} f (x (t), m (t), \alpha (t, x (t))) d t + \right. \left. g (x (T), m (T)) \right], \tag {10}$$

where m(t), $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ is the distribution generated by x(t) evolving according to the dynamics in (6). Furthermore, m∗ is the mean-field corresponding to the optimal control $\alpha ^ { * }$ .

Definition 3. (Price of Anarchy). Let $( \alpha ^ { * } , m ^ { * } )$ denote the pair of optimal control and the corresponding mean field obtained from MFC in Definition 2, and $( \hat { \alpha } , \hat { m } )$ the MFG equilibrium from Definition 1. It follows that

$$J ^ {M F C} (\alpha^ {*}) = J _ {m ^ {*}} ^ {M F G} (\alpha^ {*}) \leq J _ {\hat {m}} ^ {M F G} (\hat {\alpha}), \tag {11}$$

since the social optimum cost is lower for the representative agent. The Price of Anarchy (PoA) is then defined as

$$P o A = \frac {J _ {\hat {m}} ^ {M F G} (\hat {\alpha})}{J ^ {M F C} (\alpha^ {*})} \geq 1, \tag {12}$$

with similar structure of dynamics and costs.
