# 2.1 Finite agent games

Let us first consider a system of N -agents, where N is a potentially large integer. Each agent’s dynamics can be expressed as:

$$d x ^ {i} (t) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} b ^ {i} (x ^ {i} (t), x ^ {j} (t), \alpha^ {i} (t)) d t + \sigma d W ^ {i} (t), \tag {1}$$

for each $i = 1 , \ldots , N$ . Here, $b ^ { i } \ : \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d } \ \to$ Rn is the drift term, and $\boldsymbol { \alpha } ^ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ is the control for each agent. The initial states $x ^ { i } ( 0 )$ are distributed i.i.d. in Rn, and $W ^ { i }$ are independent n-dimensional Brownian motions. The parameter $\sigma \in \mathbb { R }$ is the scale factor for the noise terms.

There are a few key assumptions in this scenario:

• The system is homogeneous, meaning that the dynamical properties and the cost functions have the same structure for all agents:

$$b ^ {i} = b ^ {j} \quad \forall i, j$$

• Also, there is anonymity, implying that interactions happen only through the aggregated mean field :

$$m ^ {N} (t) = \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} \delta_ {x ^ {j} (t)}, \tag {2}$$

which is an estimate of the population distribution.

Initialized from $x ^ { i } ( 0 ) \sim m ^ { N } ( 0 )$ , the dynamics in (1) is simplified into

$$d x ^ {i} (t) = b (x ^ {i} (t), m ^ {N} (t), \alpha^ {i} (t, x ^ {i} (t))) d t + \sigma d W ^ {i} (t), \tag {3}$$

where $\alpha ^ { i } ( t , x ^ { i } ( t ) )$ is the closed-loop control.

Each agent aims to minimize the following cost by solving an optimization problem over [0, T ] :

$$
\begin{array}{l} J ^ {i} (\alpha^ {i}) = \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} f (x ^ {i} (t), m ^ {N} (t), \alpha^ {i} (t)) d t + \right. \\ \left. g (x ^ {i} (T), m ^ {N} (T)) \right], \quad (4) \\ \end{array}
$$

where $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d } \to$ R denotes the running cost, and $g : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R }$ is the terminal cost, both of which are homogeneous across all agents.

Let $\hat { \alpha } ^ { - i }$ represent the strategies of the remaining agents. The optimal strategy $\hat { \alpha } ~ = ~ ( \hat { \alpha } ^ { i } , \hat { \alpha } ^ { - i } )$ for all agents is determined as the Nash equilibrium of this N-agent game. That is, the current agent’s $\hat { \alpha } ^ { i }$ minimizes its own cost

$$J ^ {i} (\hat {\alpha} ^ {i}) \leq J ^ {i} (\alpha^ {i}), \quad \forall i, \forall \alpha^ {i}. \tag {5}$$

which is defined in (4).
