We are now ready to briefly investigate the plaintext imple-the trajectories are close to those in green, resulting from achieved, and the leader follows the reference. Moreover, mentation of the ADMM scheme as a reference for the en-a centralized solution of (1). In fact, relatively large devi-the trajectories are close to those in green, resulting from crypted version studied below. With the specifications above,a centralized solution of (1). In fact, relatively large devi-a centralized solution of (1). In fact, relatively large deviwe obtain the red trajectories in Figure 2 for the three graphs.ations only occur for the ring graph, which is no surpriseations only occur for the ring graph, which is no surprise Clearly, the formations are quickly achieved, and the leadersince the connectivity of the graph is low. Regarding thesince the connectivity of the graph is low. Regarding the follows the reference. Moreover, the trajectories are close toencrypted implementation, it remains to specify the utithose in green, resulting from a centralized solution of (1). In  lized cryptosystem and the mapping (11) onto the integer fact, relatively large deviations only occur for the ring graph,message space. As indicated above, we consider a leveledmessage space. As indicated above, we consider a leveled which is no surprise since the connectivity of the graph is low.FHE scheme based on (ring) LWE. More precisely, weFHE scheme based on (ring) LWE. More precisely, we Regarding the encrypted implementation, it remains to spec-opted for the CKKS cryptosystem [7] implemented in the     7 ify the utilized cryptosystem and the mapping (11) onto theOpenFHE library [5].opted for the CKKS cryptosystem [7] implemented in the integer message space. As indicated above, we consider aWhile omitting technical details, we will briefly dis-OpenFHE library [5]. leveled FHE scheme based on (ring) LWE. More precisely,cuss our choice of the modulus ?? and the dimension ?? ofWhile omitting technical details, we will briefly diswe opted for the CKKS cryptosystem [7] implemented in thethe secret keys sk because security mainly relies on these    cuss our choice of the modulus ?? and the dimension ?? of OpenFHE library [1]. parameters. Now, tthe secret keys sk?? the secret keys sk??
