3) Kalman filter gain update: To integrate the inertial and geomagnetic navigation data, the Kalman filter is employed. The error location $\delta Z _ { ( k ) }$ obtained by inertial navigation and geomagnetic navigation systems. The data fusion process is outlined as follows:

$$\delta \hat {X} _ {(k)} ^ {-} = F \delta \hat {X} _ {(k - 1)}, \tag {52}$$

where $\delta \hat { X } _ { ( k ) }$ denotes state estimate of $\delta X$ . The prior state estimation covariance matrix $P _ { ( k ) } ^ { - }$ is obtained as follows.

$$P _ {(k)} ^ {-} = F P _ {(k - 1)} F ^ {T} + Q _ {c}, \tag {53}$$

where $P _ { ( k ) }$ denotes error covariance matrix. The Kalman filter gain $K _ { k }$ update by $H _ { B }$ is as follows:

$$K _ {(k)} = \frac {P _ {(k)} ^ {-} H _ {B} ^ {T}}{H _ {B} P _ {(k)} ^ {-} H _ {B} ^ {T} + R _ {c}}, \tag {54}$$

4) Correction and feedback: The state update process of geomagnetic/inertial combined navigation system is as follows:

$$\delta \hat {X} _ {(k)} = \delta \hat {X} _ {(k)} ^ {-} + K _ {(k)} (\delta Z _ {(k)} - H _ {B} \delta \hat {X} _ {(k)} ^ {-}), \tag {55}$$

where $\delta \hat { X } _ { ( k ) }$ is the posterior state estimate of the geomagnetic field resulting from data fusion between the measurement location error $\delta Z _ { ( k ) }$ and the prior state estimate δXˆ −(k). $\delta \hat { X } _ { ( k ) } ^ { - }$

The updated posterior state estimation error covariance matrix is as follows:

$$P _ {(k)} = (I _ {1 5} - K _ {(k)} H _ {B}) P _ {(k)} ^ {-}. \tag {56}$$

The correction value $\delta \hat { X } _ { ( k ) }$ is used as output feedback and added to the location of the geomagnetic navigation system as a correction term.

$$
\delta \hat {X} _ {(k)} = \left( \begin{array}{c c c c} 0 _ {1 \times 3} & \delta \hat {\lambda} _ {(k)} & \delta \hat {\varphi} _ {(k)} & 0 _ {1 0 \times 3} \end{array} \right) ^ {T}, \tag {57}
$$

where $\delta \hat { \lambda } _ { ( k ) }$ denotes longitude correction term and $\delta \hat { \varphi } _ { ( k ) }$ denotes latitude correction term.

$$\left(\lambda_ {c (k + 1)}, \varphi_ {c (k + 1)}\right) ^ {T} = \left(\lambda_ {c (k)}, \varphi_ {c (k)}\right) ^ {T} + \left(\delta \hat {\lambda} _ {(k)}, \delta \hat {\varphi} _ {(k)}\right) ^ {T}. \tag {58}$$

The Fc-MPC algorithm for combined navigation systems in this paper is realized based on these modifications.

5) Determine terminate condition: The optimization process iterates until the distance from the current position to the destination is below a predefined threshold ε, which is set according to the actual navigation accuracy requirements.

The complete Fc-MPC for combined navigation system is summarized as Algorithm 1.
