# A. Simulation Setup and Implementation

The simulation environment is configured to replicate realworld conditions and scenarios encountered during payload transportation tasks and physical interaction. In this section, we set up the simulation environment of the proposed assistive payload transportation system with human guidance thorough physical interaction. The system consists of two quadrotors and a common payload. The quadrotors are identical with known geometrical and physical specifications. The payload is a uniform beam-shaped circular bar. All components of the system are rigidly connected, where each quadrotor is connected to each end of the payload. There are two forcetorque sensors at the points of contact of rigid connection between the quadrotors and the payload to measure the interaction and reaction forces and torques between system’s components as well as the human-robot physical interaction. The system operates near hovering state with small attitude angles. When the human operator applies force on the payload, the force will be measure by the force-torque sensors and send to the admittance controller. The latter regulates the virtual parameters of the system and generates a reference trajectory for the system to follow proportional to the amount and direction of the measured force according to human guidance. The reference trajectory is delivered to the position controller as a desired trajectory to generate the required thrust, as well as the desired orientation to the attitude controller to achieve the required movement and follow the human guidance with full compliance.
