where $c _ { 1 }$ is a positive tuning gain. The observer (2.5) consists of two parts: the state observer, i.e., ˆw-subsystem, and the update law for ζ. Please note that both the unknown control coefficient b and the newly designed ζ do not appear in the state observer anymore. This is precisely the subtlety of controller factorization (2.4) and is very important for the controller design. Let the observation error be

$$\tilde {w} (x, t) = w (x, t) - \hat {w} (x, t), \quad \tilde {\zeta} (t) = \frac {1}{b} - \zeta (t). \tag {2.6}$$

Then it is governed by

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \tilde {w} _ {t} (x, t) = \tilde {w} _ {x x} (x, t), \\ \tilde {w} _ {x} (0, t) = 0, \quad \tilde {w} _ {x} (1, t) = - b \tilde {\zeta} (t) u _ {0} (t) - c _ {1} \tilde {w} (1, t), \\ \dot {\tilde {\zeta}} (t) = \operatorname{sgn} (b) u _ {0} (t) \tilde {w} (1, t). \end{array} \right. \tag {2.7}
$$

By Lemmas 5.1 and 5.2 in Section 5 below, we can prove that the error system (2.7) is asymptotically stable for any $u _ { 0 } \in W$ and any initial state $( \tilde { w } ( \cdot , 0 ) , \tilde { \zeta } ( 0 ) ) \in \mathcal { H } \times \mathbb { R }$ . Actually, if we choose the Lyapunov function of error system (2.7) as

$$V (t) = \frac {1}{2} \int_ {0} ^ {1} \tilde {w} ^ {2} (x, t) d x + \frac {| b |}{2} \tilde {\zeta} ^ {2} (t), \tag {2.8}$$

a formal computation will show that

$$\dot {V} (t) = - \int_ {0} ^ {1} \tilde {w} _ {x} ^ {2} (x, t) d x - c _ {1} \tilde {w} ^ {2} (1, t) \leq 0.$$

The new design of the update law for ζ in observer (2.5) is based on the Lyapunov function (2.8).

Theorem 2.1. Let $q > 0 , b \neq 0 , c _ { 1 } > 0$ and $u _ { 0 } \in W$ . Suppose that the sign of b is known. Then the observer (2.5) of system (1.1) is well-posed: for any initial state $( w ( \cdot , 0 ) , \hat { w } ( \cdot , 0 ) , \zeta ( 0 ) ) \in \mathcal { H } ^ { 2 } \times \mathbb { R } .$ , the observer (2.5) admits a unique solution $( \hat { w } ( \cdot , t ) , \zeta ( t ) ) \in C ( 0 , \infty ; \mathcal { H } \times \mathbb { R } )$ such that

$$| \zeta (t) - \zeta_ {0} | + \| w (\cdot , t) - \hat {w} (\cdot , t) \| _ {\mathcal {H}} \rightarrow 0 \text {as} t \rightarrow + \infty , \tag {2.9}$$

where $\zeta _ { 0 }$ is a constant that may not be $\textstyle { \frac { 1 } { b } } .$ . If we suppose further that the controller $u _ { 0 }$ meets the following persistent excitation condition: there exists a time $\tau > 0$ such that

$$\lim _ {t \to + \infty} \int_ {t} ^ {t + \tau} u _ {0} (s) d s \neq 0, \tag {2.10}$$

then

$$\zeta (t) \rightarrow \frac {1}{b} a s t \rightarrow + \infty . \tag {2.11}$$
