We also consider the stability-while-avoid property, which is a logical conjunction of stability and safety properties. To ensure that the dynamical system satisfies the property of interest, classical control methods compute a certificate function for the property. In this work, we consider barrier functions (Ames, Grizzle, and Tabuada 2014) for proving safety and Lyapunov functions (Khalil 2002) for proving stability. The stability-while-avoid property is then proved by computing both certificate functions.

Proposition 1 (Barrier functions) Suppose that there exists a continuously differentiable function $B : \mathcal { X }  \mathbb { R } f o r$ the dynamical system Σ under a policy π with respect to the unsafe set $\mathcal { X } _ { u } ,$ , that satisfies the following conditions:

1. Initial condition. $B ( x ) \geq 0 f o r a l l x \in \mathcal { X } _ { 0 }$ .

2. Safety condition. $B ( x ) < 0$ for all $x \in \mathcal { X } _ { u }$ .   
3. Non-decreasing condition. ${ \dot { L } } _ { f } { B } ( x ) + { B } ( x ) \geq 0$ for all $x \in \{ x \mid B ( x ) \geq 0 \}$ , where $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { L _ { f } } B = \frac { \partial B } { \partial x } f ( x , u ) } \end{array}$ is the Lie derivative of B with respect to f .   
Then, Σ satisfies the safety property under π with respect to $\mathcal { X } _ { u } ,$ , and we call B a barrier function.

Proposition 2 (Lyapunov functions) Suppose that there exists a continuously differentiable function $\mathcal { V } : \mathcal { X } $ R for the dynamical system Σ under policy π with respect to the goal set $\mathcal { X } _ { g } ,$ that satisfies the following conditions:

1. Zero upon goal. $\nu ( x _ { g } ) = 0$ for all $x _ { g } \in \mathcal { X } _ { g } .$   
2. Strict positivity away from goal. $\nu ( x ) > 0$ for all $x \in$ $\mathcal { X } \backslash \mathcal { X } _ { g } .$ .   
3. Decreasing condition. $L _ { f } \mathcal { V } < 0$ for all $x \in \mathcal { X } \backslash \mathcal { X } _ { g }$ .   
Then, Σ satisfies the stability property under π with respect to $\mathcal { X } _ { g } ,$ and we call V a Lyapunov function.

Assumptions. We consider the black-box setting, meaning that the state space $x ,$ , the control action space $\mathcal { U }$ as well as the goal set $\mathcal { X } _ { g }$ and/or the unsafe set $\mathcal { X } _ { u }$ (depending on the property of interest) are known. However, the system dynamics function f is unknown and we only assume access to an engine which allows us to execute the dynamics function.
