# 3.1. Flexible Correction-Model Predictive Control

This section provides a detailed introduction to the Fc-MPC algorithm, which is based on flexible correction. This algorithm addresses the issue that existing model predictive control methods lack dynamic prediction and model updating, leading to inadequate anti-interference performance.

Considering ξ(k) as the unknown random interference existing in the actual navigation system at time k. The model with interference is constructed as follows:

$$S (k + 1) = A S (k) + B (k - 1) U (k) + \xi (k). \tag {39}$$

Combining Eq. (13) and Eq. (39) the unknown random interference is calculated as follows:

$$\xi (k) = [ B (k) - B (k - 1) ] U (k). \tag {40}$$

When introduce the $U _ { a } ( k )$ to compensate the input, the input of the model is:

$$U _ {h} (k) \triangleq U (k) - U _ {a} (k), \tag {41}$$

where the compensated input variable is $U _ { h } ( k )$ and the state with unknown random interference is:

$$S (k + 1) = A S (k) + B (k - 1) [ U _ {h} (k) + U _ {a} (k) ] + \xi (k). \tag {42}$$

Then, the following equation is the conditions for uniform compensation:

$$B (k - 1) U _ {a} (k) = - \xi (k). \tag {43}$$

Finally, combining the Eq. (41), Eq. (42) and Eq. (43) the system state prediction model after compensation is:

$$S (k + 1) = A S (k) + B (k - 1) U _ {h} (k). \tag {44}$$

According to Section 2.3, it is converted into the standard convex quadratic optimization form:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \min _ {\bar {U} (k)} \frac {1}{2} \bar {U} _ {h} ^ {T} (k) H (k) \bar {U} _ {h} (k) + h ^ {T} (k) \bar {U} _ {h} (k) \\ \text {s.t.} W \bar {U} _ {h} (k) \leq w. \end{array} \right. \tag {45}
$$
