# II. PRELIMINARIES AND PROBLEM FORMULATION

In this work, our objective is to design and implement an assistive aerial system to assist humans in payload transportation with human physical interaction and guidance. The proposed system consists of two quadrotors collaboratively lifting and transporting a common payload that is rigidly connected to the quadrotors. The human operator can interact with the assistive aerial system through force feedback, allowing intuitive control of the system during payload transportation tasks. The human operator can directly push or apply forces to the transported payload to guide the system in any direction in three-dimensional (3D) space. The applied force can be measured using either a one force-torque sensor attached to the center of mass (CoM) of the payload or two force-torque sensors attached at the points of the rigid connection of each quadrotor with the payload ends. The dynamic model of each component of the assistive system (two quadrotors and the payload) will be given separately; then the dynamic model for the entire system will be derived in detail for control purposes. Without loss of generality, the entire system will be considered as one rigid body and treated as one aerial vehicle. All the notations, parameters, and symbols used in this paper are illustrated in the following tables. For notations and symbols related to the modeling of individual quadrotor, payload, entire assistive system, controller-related notations and symbols respectively, refer to Table I.
