# IV. TRACTABLE RELAXATIONS

From Theorem 1 it follows that Problem 2 reduces to a feasibility problem in $W ( x ) \in S _ { n } ^ { + + } , \mu _ { i , k } ( x , y ) \in \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ , and $\rho ( x )$ . However, searching for a matrix function $W ( x ) \succ 0$ is generically intractable. To avoid this problem we will restrict the search to SOS matrices, that is $W ( x ) = ( \Psi \otimes I ) ^ { \top } Q ( \Psi \otimes$ I) where $Q \succ 0$ and $\Psi$ is a basis of monomials per [23]. Further, in view of Remark 2, we will only consider second order polynomial matrices, that is $W ( x ) \in \dot { S } _ { 2 } ^ { + + } [ x ]$ ]. Similarly, to guarantee that $\mu _ { i , k } \geq 0$ the search is performed for $\mu _ { i , k }$ belonging to the set of SOS polynomials. Finally, we also restrict $\rho$ to be a polynomial. Under these assumptions, (19) is a semi-algebraic optimization over $W , \mu$ and $\rho ,$ that satisfy the linear constraints in (19b),(19c). Therefore, we utilize Putinar’s Positivstellensatz and other standard SOS tools to solve it via a sequence of SDPs.

It is important to get an understanding of the computational complexity before presenting the examples. Assume the system dimension is n, the highest degree in ϕ is p, the highest degree in W is 2q (where q is either 0 or 1 in view of Remark 2) and $T$ data samples were collected. As discussed $W ( { \boldsymbol { x } } ) = ( \Psi \otimes I ) ^ { \top } Q ( \Psi \otimes I )$ where Ψ is the vector of all monomials up to degree q of the system state. Hence the size of the Gram matrix $Q$ is $\stackrel { \cdot } { n } { \binom { n + q } { q } } \stackrel { \cdot } { \times } n { \binom { n + q } { q } }$ .

Furthermore, based on the set $\mathcal { P } _ { 1 }$ and the number of data samples T , there are 2nT SOS functions $\mu _ { i , k }$ each of which should have degree in x at least 2q $+ p - 1$ and degree 2 in y. Thus, the associated Gram matrices have dimension $n _ { G } \times n _ { G }$ with $n _ { G } \approx ( n + 1 ) { \binom { { \frac { p - 1 } { 2 } } + q + n } { n } }$ .
