Table 1 PSINS inertial navigation simulation error settings.

<table><tr><td>Parameter description</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td>Platform misalignment angle (arcmin)</td><td>[50;50;500]</td></tr><tr><td>Speed error (m/s)</td><td>10</td></tr><tr><td>East position error (m)</td><td>5000</td></tr><tr><td>North position error (m)</td><td>5000</td></tr><tr><td>Vertical position error (m)</td><td>0</td></tr></table>

Table 2 Inertial navigation simulation parameters settings.

<table><tr><td>Parameters description</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td>Yaw angle (°)</td><td>2.3123</td></tr><tr><td>Speed  $v$  (m/s)</td><td>20.5778</td></tr><tr><td>Eastward speed  $v_e$  (m/s)</td><td>15.1756</td></tr><tr><td>Northward speed  $v_n$  (m/s)</td><td>-13.8977</td></tr><tr><td>Vertical speed  $v_u$  (m/s)</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Step length (s)</td><td>0.005</td></tr><tr><td>Sampling time (s)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Longitude (E°)</td><td>33</td></tr><tr><td>Latitude (N°)</td><td>152</td></tr><tr><td>Altitude (km)</td><td>0</td></tr></table>

speed, eastward speed, northward speed, vertical speed, step length, sampling time, longitude, latitude, and altitude. Data fusion parameters are outlined in Table 3, including the process noise matrix, measurement noise matrix, posteriori matrix, state matrix, input matrix, and measurement matrix. The parameters related to the Fc-MPC algorithm are provided in Table 4. The inertial navigation simulation employs a high-precision INS trajectory generator from the MATLAB PSINS toolbox (Min, 2024).

To assess the effectiveness of the proposed Fc-MPC algorithm, this section conducts a comparative simulation analysis with linear time-invariant (LTI-MPC) (Nguyen et al., 2023) and linear time-variant (LTV-MPC) (Mousavi et al., 2013) algorithms. LTI-MPC is applicable to systems with constant parameters, whereas LTV-MPC is suited for systems with time-varying parameters. This paper evaluates the performance of Fc-MPC with non-interference, magnetic storm, and real data experiments utilizing quantitative metrics to emphasize its advantages and identify areas for potential improvement. The specific process of simulation and experiment is as follows.
