Algorithm 1 first initializes the monitor M by constructing either the CertPM or the PredPM (line 1), the set of new training data $D _ { \mathrm { N e w - d a t a } }$ which is initially empty (line 2) and a set $\tilde { \mathcal { X } } _ { 0 } ~ \subseteq ~ \mathcal { X } _ { 0 }$ of $D$ initial states obtained via sampling from the initial set $\mathcal { X } _ { 0 }$ (line 3). Then, for each initial state $x _ { 0 } \in \tilde { \mathcal { X } } _ { 0 } .$ , it executes the dynamical system to obtain a state trajectory $x ( t )$ from $x ( 0 ) = x _ { 0 }$ (line 5). For each time point $t _ { n } ,$ a new state $x _ { n }$ is observed (line 7) and the monitor verdict $\mathcal { M } ( x _ { 0 } , x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } )$ is computed (line 8). If $\mathcal { M } ( x _ { 0 } , x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } ) = 1 , \mathrm { i . e . }$ . if the monitor issues a property or certificate violation verdict, the new state $x _ { n }$ is added to the new training dataset $D _ { \mathrm { N e w - d a t a } }$ (line 8). Once the new data is collected, it is used to initialize the new training datasets $D _ { \mathrm { { I n i t } } } ^ { \mathrm { { r e p a i r } } } \ = \ D _ { \mathrm { { N e w - d a t a } } } \cap \mathcal { X } _ { 0 } , \ D _ { \mathrm { { S a f e } } } ^ { \mathrm { { r e p a i r } } } \ = \ D _ { \mathrm { { N e w - d a t a } } } \cap \mathcal { X } _ { u }$ and Drepair $D _ { \mathrm { N o n - d e c } } ^ { \mathrm { r e p a i r } } = D _ { \mathrm { N e w - d a t a } } \cap \{ x \mid \mathcal { B } ( x ) \geq 0 \}$ (line 9). Finally, the neural network policy π and the neural network barrier function B are repaired by being retrained on the loss function in eq. (1) with the new training datasets (line 11). If we are only interested in repairing the barrier function B for a fixed control policy π, only the network B is repaired while keeping the parameters of π fixed (line 13).
