# 3.2.2. Combined navigation systems state update

The presence of various interferences, such as geomagnetic anomalies, geomagnetic storms, and inertial drift, during the navigation process can affect the accuracy and stability of heading calculations. Therefore, this paper constructs an observation model to estimate the magnitude of the unknown error. The following details outline how to implement this model for updating the state of combined navigation systems using Fc-MPC:

1) Observation model: Assuming the inertial navigation measured location $Z _ { m }$ is as follows:

$$Z _ {m} = \left(\lambda_ {m}, \varphi_ {m}\right) ^ {T}. \tag {48}$$

where $\lambda _ { m }$ and $\varphi _ { m }$ denote the longitude and latitude measured from the inertial system. The geomagnetic navigation calculates the location $Z _ { c }$ , which is defined as follows:

$$Z _ {c} = \left(\lambda_ {c}, \varphi_ {c}\right) ^ {T}. \tag {49}$$

where $\lambda _ { c }$ and $\varphi _ { c }$ denote the longitude and latitude calculated from the geomagnetic navigation system. The geomagnetic elements for the observation equation can be obtained from the WMM2020 (NCEI Geomagnetic Modeling Team and British Geological Survey, 2020) model or by real-time measurements with a triaxial magnetometer.

2) State observation equation: Combining the state variable from Eq. (42). The observation equation of the system is as follows:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \delta Z _ {(k)} = H _ {B} \delta X _ {(k - 1)} + v _ {(k - 1)} = Z _ {m (k)} - Z _ {c (k)} \\ v \sim N (0, R _ {c}), \end{array} \right. \tag {50}
$$

where $v _ { ( k - 1 ) }$ denotes the measurement noise, which follows a normal distribution with an expected value of zero and a covariance matrix represented by $R _ { c } ; \delta X$ denotes the state variable established by the prior state estimate $\delta \hat { X } _ { ( k ) } ^ { - } ; H _ { B }$ is a $2 \times 1 5$ dimensional observation matrix to extract only the longitude and latitude dimensions from the state of Eq. (47), which is calculated as follows:

$$
H _ {B} = \left( \begin{array}{l l l} 0 _ {2 \times 3} & I _ {2 \times 2} & 0 _ {2 \times 1 0} \end{array} \right), \tag {51}
$$

where $0 _ { 2 \times 3 }$ represents a $2 \times 3$ zero matrix; $I _ { 2 \times 2 }$ is a $2 \times 2$ identity matrix; $0 _ { 2 \times 1 0 }$ represents a $2 \times 1 0$ zero matrix.
