# Predictive Policy Monitor

CertPM checks if the property or one of the certificate defining conditions is violated at the states observed so far. Our second monitor, which we call the predictive policy monitor (PredPM), considers the case of safety properties and estimates the remaining time before the property or the certificate violation may occur in the future. PredPM then issues a verdict based on whether any of the estimated remaining times are below some pre-defined thresholds. Thus, our second monitor aims to predict future behavior and issue property and certificate violation verdicts before they happen.

Since PredPM is restricted to safety properties, let $\mathcal { X } _ { u }$ be the set of unsafe states. Let π be a policy and B be a barrier function. For each finite sequence of observed states $x _ { 0 } , x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n }$ , PredPM computes three quantitative assessments $[ v _ { U } , v _ { S } , v _ { N } ]$ , where:

1. $v _ { U }$ is an estimate of the time until $\mathcal { X } _ { u }$ is reached and hence the safety property is violated (or, if $x _ { n } \in \mathcal { X } _ { u }$ already, $v _ { U }$ is an estimate of the time until the safe part $\mathcal { X } \backslash \mathcal { X } _ { u }$ is reached).   
2. vS is an estimate of the time until the set $\{ x \in \mathcal { X } \mid$ $B ( x ) < 0 \}$ may be reached and hence the Safety condition in Proposition 1 may be violated;   
3. vN is an estimate of the time until the Non-dec. condition in Proposition 1 may be violated.

Note that these three values are estimates on the remaining time until some set $S \subseteq { \mathcal { X } }$ is reached, where $S = \mathcal { X } _ { u }$ (or $S = \mathcal { X } \backslash \mathcal { X } _ { u }$ if $x _ { n } \ \in \ \mathcal { X } _ { u } )$ for computing $v _ { U } , S \ = \ \{ x \in$ $\chi \mid B ( x ) < 0 \}$ for computing $v _ { S } ,$ , and $S ~ = ~ \{ x ~ \in ~ { \mathcal { X } } ~ |$ $\widehat { L } _ { f } \widehat { B } ( x ) + B ( x ) < 0 \}$ for computing $v _ { N }$ . PredPM computes each of the three values by solving the following problem:

$$\min _ {a} \mathcal {T} \text { s.t. } \frac {d x}{d t} = v (t), \frac {d v}{d t} = a (t), | a (t) | \leq a _ {\max},\forall t \in [ 0, \mathcal {T} ]; x (\mathcal {T}) \in S, x (0) = x _ {n}, v (0) = v _ {0}.$$
