# C. Related Work

Design of a control algorithm for moving vehicles has been deemed a challenging task [18], [20], [30]–[35].
Tagliabue et al.
[34] introduced a collaborative object transportation system using Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) by employing a passive force control approach.
They adopted a masterslave framework, employing an admittance controller to ensure the slave unit’s compliance with external forces exerted by the master MAV on the payload.
To estimate the external force on the slave, they utilized an Unscented Kalman Filter depending on data from a Visual-Inertial navigation system.
The system was implemented for outdoor applications to transport a 1.2-meter-long object.
Horyna et al.
[35] introduced a control approach for a system of two UAVs carrying a beamtype payload for outdoor applications.
A master-slave control architecture comprises a feedback controller and a Model Predictive Control (MPC) reference tracker was implemented on the master agent’s side, with the slave agent acting as an actuator following the master’s directives.
Loianno and Kumar [36] developed a collaborative transportation aerial system using a team of small quadrotors.
They introduced a method for coordinated control that allows for independent control of each quadrotor while maintaining the stability of the system.
The authors suggested a cooperative localization strategy that uses the information on the inherent rigidity of the structure to deduce additional constraints between the poses of the vehicles.
This formulation casts the pose estimation challenge as an optimization problem on the Lie group of the Special Euclidean Group SE(3) [37] and the Lie group of the Special Orthogonal Group SO(3) [38].
Rajaeizadeh et al.
[39] explored the challenge of coordinating pair of quadrotors rigidly connected to the payload for cooperative transportation.
They introduced a rigid-body formation control system utilizing the Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) method, along with a Paparazzi-based guidance approach for generating the trajectory of transportation mission.
The system results were validated through simulations.
Mellinger et al.
[40] examined the challenge of controlling multiple quadrotors to collaboratively grasp and transport a payload.
The system was modeled using a rigid connection between multiple UAVs and the payload.
