# 5.3 Numerical experiments

For our numerical experiments, we will consider the three communication graphs in Figure 1 with $M \in \{ 8 , 9 \}$ agents and also aim for the illustrated (time-invariant) formations. More specifically, the desired formation for the ring graph (Fig. 1) is a regular octagon with a circumcircle of radius 10 and the other formations are similar apart from the central leader. For all three setups, the leader agent is supposed to follow a reference trajectory along the $y _ { \mathrm { 1 } } \mathrm { - a x i s }$ . In order to simplify a comparison of the setups, we specify $y _ { 1 , \mathrm { r e f } } ( t ) : = ( 1 0 + t \quad 0 ) ^ { \intercal }$ for the ring graph and ??( ) ????(− ) ??(0)) as well as ????(−1) 0 ) as well as ?? 1 $y _ { 1 , \mathrm { r e f } } ( t ) : =$ $\begin{array} { r l } { ( t } & { { } 0 ) ^ { \top } } \end{array}$ for the two other graphs (to account for the cen- ?? = .  ℓ = DMM schemes, we set ??  0.2 and evaluate ℓ  5( ) (− ) tral leader). In addition, we choose a prediction horizon ofiterations (per time step). Finally, we initialize the schemesiterations (per time step). Finally, we initialize the schemes  =    = $N = 4$ and the weighting factors ??^?? ∶= (0 . . . 0 ??⊺?? (0) ??^ 0 . . . 0 ??⊺ 0 $r = 0 . 1$ and (0)) 0 $\eta = 1 0 .$ . Fur-0 and0 and ther, we randomly define the robots’ initial positionsreuse ??ℓ?? from the previous time step as an initi ℓwith ??^?? ∶= (0 . . . 0 ??⊺?? (0) . . . ??⊺?? (0)) at $y _ { i } ( 0 )$ inonnd the boxfor all reuse $[ - 1 0 , 1 0 ] ^ { 2 }$ and set the initial velocities (i.e., the re-ℓ. e previous time step as an initialization maining entries of We are nowfor all upcomin $x _ { i } ( 0 ) )$ as well as  to briefly i $u _ { i } ( - 1 )$ to zero. For theate the plaintext ADMM schemes, we set implementation of theWe are now ready $\rho = 0 . 2$ and evaluate  scheme as a y investigate t $\ell = 5$ itera-ce forintext tions (per time step). Finally, we initialize the schemes withimplementation of the ADMM scheme as a reference forimplementation of the ADMM scheme as a reference for $\hat { \alpha } _ { i } : = \left( 0 \quad \ldots \quad 0 \quad y _ { i } ^ { \top } ( 0 ) \quad \ldots \quad y _ { i } ^ { \top } ( 0 ) \right) ^ { \top }$ at torWitWit $t = 0$ and reuse Figure 2 specifica- specifica-$\alpha _ { i } ^ { \ell }$ from the previous time step as an initialization for all up-for the three graphs. Clearly, the formations are quicklytions above, we obtain the red trajectories in Figure 2tions above, we obtain the red trajectories in Figure 2 coming ℓ.achievefor the for the
