# Neural Policy and Certificate Repair

Our monitors in the previous section are able to flag finite state trajectories that may lead to property or certificate violations. We now show how the verdicts issued by our monitors can be used to extract additional training data that describe the property or certificate violations. Hence, if the control policy and the certificate are both learned as neural networks, we show how they can be retrained on this new data and repaired. In the interest of space, in this section, we consider the case of safety properties where certificates are barrier functions. Suppose that $\mathcal { X } _ { u }$ is a set of unsafe states in a dynamical system $\overset { \vartriangle } { \boldsymbol { \Sigma } } = ( \boldsymbol { \mathcal { X } } , \boldsymbol { \mathcal { U } } , \bar { \boldsymbol { f } } )$ . The pseudocode of our monitoring-based repair algorithm is shown in Algorithm 1. Our method can be easily modified to allow Lyapunov function repair and we provide this extension in the Appendix.

Learning-based control with certificates. Before showing how to extract new training data and use it for policy and certificate repair, we first provide an overview of the general framework for jointly learning neural network policies and barrier functions employed by existing learning-based control methods (Zhao et al. 2020). Two neural networks are learned simultaneously, by minimizing a loss function which captures each of the defining conditions of barrier functions in Proposition 1. That way, the learning process is guided towards learning a neural control policy that admits a barrier function and hence satisfies the safety property. The loss function contains one loss term for each defining condition:

$$\mathcal {L} (\theta , \nu) = \mathcal {L} _ {\text { Init }} (\theta , \nu) + \mathcal {L} _ {\text { Safe }} (\theta , \nu) + \mathcal {L} _ {\text { Non - dec }} (\theta , \nu), \tag {1}$$

where θ and ν are vectors of parameters of neural networks πθ and $B _ { \nu }$ , respectively, and
