Proof. The existence of the solution can be obtained by Lemma 5.1. It is sufficient to prove (5.21), (5.22) and (5.23). We first prove (5.21) and the convergence (5.22). By (5.1) and (5.3), we have

$$\tilde {\zeta} ^ {2} (t) \leq \frac {2}{| b |} F (t) \leq \frac {2}{| b |} F (0). \tag {5.25}$$

By [2, p.258, Theorem 1], there exists a positive constant M such that

$$\tilde {w} ^ {2} (0, t) \leq M \left[ \tilde {w} ^ {2} (1, t) + \int_ {0} ^ {1} \tilde {w} _ {x} ^ {2} (x, t) d x \right]. \tag {5.26}$$

Passing to the limit as $t \to + \infty$ in (5.1), we obtain

$$\int_ {0} ^ {\infty} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {1} \tilde {w} _ {x} ^ {2} (x, t) d x + c _ {1} \tilde {w} ^ {2} (1, t) \right] d t \leq F (0), \tag {5.27}$$

which, together with (5.26), leads to (5.21).

By (5.2), (5.25) and the Poincar´e’s inequality, there exists a positive constant ω such that

$$\dot {E} (t) = - \int_ {0} ^ {1} \tilde {w} _ {x} ^ {2} (x, t) d x - b u _ {0} (t) \tilde {\zeta} (t) \tilde {w} (1, t) - c _ {1} \tilde {w} ^ {2} (1, t)\leq - \omega E (t) + \sqrt {2 | b | F (0)} \cdot | u _ {0} (t) | | \tilde {w} (1, t) |.$$

Applying Lemma 10.1 to this inequality, we get (5.22) easily.

Now we prove the convergence (5.23). Owing to (5.1) and (5.3), we conclude that

$$\dot {F} (t) \leq 0 \text { and } 0 \leq F (t) \leq F (0), \forall t \geq 0. \tag {5.28}$$

By the monotone convergence theorem, there exists a $F _ { * } \geq 0$ such that $F ( t ) \to F _ { * }$ as $t \to + \infty$ Furthermore,

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow + \infty} \tilde {\zeta} ^ {2} (t) = \frac {2}{| b |} \lim _ {t \rightarrow + \infty} [ F (t) - E (t) ] = \frac {2 F _ {*}}{| b |} \tag {5.29}$$

and hence

$$\lim _ {t \to + \infty} | \tilde {\zeta} (t) | = \sqrt {\frac {2 F _ {*}}{| b |}}. \tag {5.30}$$

When $F _ { * } = 0$ , (5.30) implies that $\tilde { \zeta } ( t ) \to 0 \mathrm { ~ a s ~ } t \to + \infty$ . It suffices to consider the case that $F _ { * } \neq 0$ . By (5.29), there exists a $t _ { 0 } > 0$ such that

$$\tilde {\zeta} ^ {2} (t) > \frac {F _ {*}}{| b |} > 0, \forall t > t _ {0}. \tag {5.31}$$

Hence, $\tilde { \zeta } ( t ) \neq 0$ for all $t > t _ { 0 }$ . Note that $\tilde { \zeta } \in C [ 0 , \infty )$ , it follows from the intermediate value theorem that

$$| \tilde {\zeta} (t) | = \tilde {\zeta} (t) \text { or } | \tilde {\zeta} (t) | = - \tilde {\zeta} (t), \forall t > t _ {0}, \tag {5.32}$$

which, together with (5.30), leads to

$$\lim _ {t \to + \infty} \tilde {\zeta} (t) = \sqrt {\frac {2 F _ {*}}{| b |}} \mathrm{or} \lim _ {t \to + \infty} \tilde {\zeta} (t) = - \sqrt {\frac {2 F _ {*}}{| b |}}.$$

So we have proved the convergence (5.23).
