# 2.2 Mean field game : large N limit

In the limit of $N \to \infty$ , the aggregate distribution $m ^ { N } ( t )$ is identified with a population state $m ( t ) \in L ^ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } )$ . Mean field games are employed to study the Nash equilibria of such systems, providing an approximation for the behavior of a large number of agents. It is sufficient to understand the behavior of one representative agent since each individual has a negligible impact on the rest of the population.

From (3), the dynamics of a representative agent is reduced to

$$d x (t) = b (x (t), m (t), \alpha (t, x (t))) d t + \sigma d W (t). \tag {6}$$

The corresponding mean field equilibrium is described as follows [Lauriere, 2021].

Definition 1. (MFG equilibrium). The pair $( \hat { \alpha } , \hat { m } )$ of the control input and the mean field is obtained as

$$\hat {\alpha} = \arg \min _ {\alpha} J _ {\hat {m}} ^ {M F G} (\alpha), \tag {7}$$

with the cost

$$
\begin{array}{l} J _ {m} ^ {M F G} (\alpha) = \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} f (x ^ {m} (t), m (t), \alpha (t, x ^ {m} (t))) d t + \right. \\ \left. g (x ^ {m} (T), m (T)) \right], \quad (8) \\ \end{array}
$$

where ${ \hat { m } } ( t ) , \ t \ \in \ [ 0 , T ]$ is the distribution generated by $x ^ { \hat { m } } ( t )$ evolving according to the dynamics in (6).

The solution is the mean field Nash equilibrium wherein:

• Given the population distribution ˆm, optimal control αˆ for a representative agent is obtained in (7),   
• The population distribution ˆm itself is generated by the optimal strategy ˆα.

Thus, this setup can be expressed as a fixed point problem.
