# 2 Problem statement

We consider a multi-agent system (MAS) with M dynamical agents. The agents can exchange information via a bidirectional communication network described by an undirected graph (see, e.g., Fig. 1). In addition, a system operator can communicate with each agent. The operator specifies the cooperative control task by parametrizing a (separable) cost function to be minimized by the agents. More precisely, we assume that the agents are supposed to (approximately) solve a general consensus problem of the form (cf. [6, Sect. 7.2])

$$\min _ {z _ {1}, \dots , z _ {M}, \zeta} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {M} f _ {i} (z _ {i}, p _ {i}) \quad \text { s.t. } \quad z _ {i} = (\zeta) _ {\mathcal {K} _ {i}} \tag {1}$$

at each sampling instance, where the constraints apply for each $i \in \mathcal { M } : = \{ 1 , \ldots , M \}$ . Here, $z _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { v _ { i } } , p _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { w _ { i } }$ , and $f _ { i } : \mathbb { R } ^ { v _ { i } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { w _ { i } } $ R denote local decision variables, parameters, and cost functions, respectively, and $\zeta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \nu }$ refers to a global decision variable. Furthermore, the (ordered) index sets ${ \mathcal { K } } _ { i } \subseteq \mathcal { V } : = \left\{ 1 , \dots , \nu \right\}$ specify which entries of the global $\zeta$ are associated with the local $z _ { i }$ . Regarding the cost functions, we assume that each consist of two terms: A quadratic form in $z _ { i }$ with linear parameter dependencies and an indicator function-like term reflecting affine equality constraints. More formally, we consider

$$
f _ {i} \left(z _ {i}, p _ {i}\right) := \frac {1}{2} z _ {i} ^ {\top} H _ {i} z _ {i} + p _ {i} ^ {\top} F _ {i} ^ {\top} z _ {i} + \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0 & \text { if } G _ {i} z _ {i} = E _ {i} p _ {i}, \\ \infty & \text { otherwise }, \end{array} \right. \tag {2}
$$

where the equality constraints will allow incorporating the dynamics of the agents.

Now, we aim for a distributed but privacy-preserving solution of (1). To specify the corresponding security goals, we make the following non-standard assumptions which, however, reflect common setups. We assume that $z _ { i }$ and $p _ { i }$ offer the structures

$$z _ {i} := \binom {\alpha_ {i}} {\gamma_ {i}} \quad \text { respectively } \quad p _ {i} := \binom {\beta_ {i}} {\delta_ {i}} \tag {3}$$
