(2019) proposed a combined navigation method built upon matching strategy and hierarchical filtering to improve the positioning precision of the inertial and geomagnetic combined navigation system algorithm and improved the probability data association-iterated closest contour point (PDA-ICCP) geomagnetic matching algorithm.
Ding and Cheng (2022) proposed a two-stage combined matching algorithm, including coarse matching and contour-based fine matching, to improve the precision and robustness of underwater terrainaided navigation system.
Xu and Wang (2020) proposed an improved iterated closest contour point (ICCP) algorithm to help eliminate errors from the INS.
Wang et al.
(2022) proposed a inertial and geomagnetic combined matching navigation algorithm for long-range navigation.
This method integrates the map-based geomagnetic matching navigation method with the geomagnetic bionic navigation method.
Pang et al.
(2023) proposed an adaptive geomagnetic navigation method.
It roughly estimates navigation errors based on the error characteristics of the inertial navigation system, then performs geomagnetic matching for positioning to improve matching accuracy and timeliness.
However, these methods rely on accurate a priori geomagnetic maps, which are often difficult to obtain in practical navigation tasks.
This limitation restricts the utilization of the combined navigation system (Wang et al., 2020).
Zhang et al.
(2021b) introduced the model predictive control (MPC) algorithm into long-distance geomagnetic navigation for the first time to solve the problem of no prior geomagnetic map.
Since this method relies solely on geomagnetic information, the accuracy of the Earth’s magnetic field and heading calculation model will directly influence the method’s overall precision.
Additionally, this approach does not incorporate a course correction mechanism, and the affects of magnetic storms on its performance remain uncertain.
In the face of complex and unknown GPS-denied environments, the existing geomagnetic and inertial combined navigation methods (Scott et al., 2011;
Rong and Libo, 2020) exhibit a limitation in the dynamic model predictive updates necessary for effectively addressing geomagnetic interference.
These limited the use of the combined navigation system (Teng et al., 2018;
Wu et al., 2024).
