Summarizing the state of the art, we first note that not only HE is an enabler for privacy-preserving computations. In fact, secure multi-party computation with secret sharing [14] and differential privacy [10] have also been used for privacypreserving distributed optimization methods [18, 25, 26]. However, differential privacy typically builds on adding noise to the data and multi-party computation often requires a tremendous amount of communication between the involved parties. Both drawbacks can be avoided with HE, and we consequently focus on this technology. Moreover, while the mentioned existing schemes provide privacy for the local cost functions or decision variables, they neglect that the local variables often contain copies of quantities related to neighboring agents. In contrast, our approach explicitly takes this condition into account and allows using such copies without leaking information about the neighboring agents. A similar goal is underlying the encrypted ADMM scheme in [28]. However, there, privacy is only provided for iterates of the algorithm and information is leaked after convergence, whereas we can ensure privacy also after convergence. Further, we allow the local cost functions, which often contain private information of, e.g., the agent’s dynamics, to be securely parameterized by a system operator in order to specify cooperative control goals.

We will illustrate our approach based on a case study on robot formation. In this context, we briefly note that encrypted control for mobile robots has been previously addressed in [5, 16, 23]. However, the two former contributions deal with distributed privacy-preserving state feedback control, which comes with limited application possibilities. The latter uses a central computing unit and only distributed sensing and acting.

The remaining paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we state the problem of interest and summarize the security goals. Section 3 deals with the plaintext ADMM algorithm that solves our control problem in a distributed fashion. Our main contribution is stated in Section 4, where we develop our encrypted ADMM realization. The case study on robot formation control is presented in Section 5. Finally, we conclude our findings and discuss future research directions in Section 6.
