This paper focuses on deriving data-driven control strategies for contractivity under Riemannian metrics. Introduced by the seminal paper [7], contractivity can be seen in some ways as a “stronger” property than stability. For excellent treatments of contractivity with $\ell _ { p }$ norms see [8], [9]. Informally, contractive systems are those where, a suitably defined, distance between different trajectories tends to zero exponentially fast, regardless of the initial conditions. Contractive systems are attractive for many reasons. Firstly, if a time-invariant system is exponentially contracting in Rn it implies existence of a global exponentially stable equilibrium point [10]. Secondly, tools from semialgebraic geometry enable the search over a wide class of contraction metrics via semidefinite programs [10]. Thirdly contraction guarantees entrainment to periodic forcing [7], [9]. Finally, for constant Riemannian Metrics contraction is invariant under any additive disturbance [11].

A convex optimization approach to finding control contraction metrics in a model-based setting was first studied in [12]. The approach developed there is the basis of our datadriven results. To enhance its computational efficiency, several extensions were proposed, most notably those utilizing neural network-based contraction metrics. For the case of known dynamics [13], [14] propose the use of a Neural Network (NN) to co-synthesize a contraction metric and a controller. Unknown dynamics were addressed in [15], where a NN is used to first identify a model and then learn a contraction metric M . This is followed by a validation step to find a trusted domain D along with bounds on the identification error, and to verify that M is indeed a contraction in D. While this approach was successfully used to control several robotic systems, it suffers from the conservatism inherent in the model error bounding step and the non-convexity of the two step process.
