# 3.2.1. Combined navigation systems state equation

When there is a slight alteration in the spatial distribution of the local magnetic gradient, the precision of the heading angle computation diminishes (Yu et al., 2023; Yang and Li, 2022).The proposed Fc-MPC algorithm uses a short term interval to combine the results of the inertial navigation error equation with the position error from geomagnetic navigation using a Kalman filter. This makes the geomagnetic navigation system more accurate and stable. The state equation for the combined geomagnetic and inertial navigation system is as follows:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \delta X _ {(k)} = F \delta X _ {(k - 1)} + w _ {(k - 1)} \\ w \sim N (0, Q _ {c}), \end{array} \right. \tag {46}
$$

where $w _ { ( k - 1 ) }$ denotes the process noise; F denotes the state matrix, which follows a normal distribution with an expected value of zero; $Q _ { c }$ denotes the covariance matrix denoted.

The state error propagation equation of the combined system, which defines the state variable $\delta X$ , is as follows:

$$\delta X = (\alpha , \beta , \gamma , \delta \lambda , \delta \varphi , \delta h, \delta V _ {x}, \delta V _ {y}, \delta V _ {z}, \tag {47}\left. \varepsilon_ {c x}, \varepsilon_ {c y}, \varepsilon_ {c z}, \varepsilon_ {r x}, \varepsilon_ {r y}, \varepsilon_ {r z}\right) ^ {T},$$

where $\alpha$ and $\gamma$ represent the horizontal error angle of the inertial system and the heading error angle, respectively. The variable $\beta$ represents the prior information distributed over $\delta X$ . The terms $\delta \lambda , \delta \varphi$ , and $\delta h$ represent the errors in longitude, latitude, and height, respectively. Additionally, $\delta V _ { x } , \delta V _ { y }$ and $\delta V _ { z }$ represent the errors in eastward, northward, and vertical velocities, respectively. The $\varepsilon _ { c x } , \varepsilon _ { c y }$ , and $\varepsilon _ { c z }$ refer to the constant drift of the eastward, northward, and azimuth gyros, respectively. Meanwhile, $\varepsilon _ { r x } , \ \varepsilon _ { r y } .$ and $\varepsilon _ { r z }$ represent the random drifts of the eastward, northward, and azimuth gyros, respectively.

Since the inherent short-term stability of inertial systems in heading calculations can lead to cumulative errors during long-term navigation missions, only the state variables at the next sampling time of the inertial navigation system are utilized in areas characterized by low spatial variability of the geomagnetic gradient field.
