# I. INTRODUCTION

D ATA-DRIVEN control (DDC) methods seek to avoidthe computational complexity and potential conservatism the computational complexity and potential conservatism entailed in traditional plant identification-robust control design pipeline by synthesizing controllers directly from experimental data. For Linear Time-Invariant (LTI) systems a number of computationally tractable DDC techniques have been developed in the past few years [1]–[3]. DDC of nonlinear systems is considerably more challenging. Local stabilization can be achieved by estimating the Jacobian of the system around a point combined with LTI data-driven techniques [4]. Datadriven global stabilization of nonlinear systems is a much harder problem. Without assuming some form of nonlinearity, the problem of obtaining stability certificates becomes intractable. To address these difficulties, [5] assumed polynomial dynamics and resorted to finding a data-driven density function so that the resulting problem was transformed into linear programs. Similarly, in [6], a positive semidefinite program is derived by using quadratic-like Lyapunov functions to ensure closed-loop stability.

Manuscript received 18 February 2025; revised 28 April 2025; accepted 19 May 2025. (Corresponding author: Andreas Oliveira).

This work was partially supported by NSF grants and CNS–2038493 and CMMI 2208182, AFOSR grant FA9550-19-1-0005, ONR grant N00014-21-1-2431 and DHS grant 22STESE0001-02-00. The authors are with the Robust Systems Lab, ECE Department, Northeastern University, Boston, MA 02115. (e-mails: {franciscodemelooli.a, zheng.jian1}@northeastern.edu, msznaier@coe.neu.edu)
