# 4 Performance output tracking

In this section, we apply the theoretical results in Sections 2 and 3 to the performance output tracking for system (1.1). In this way, the corresponding controller can be persistently excited and hence the unknown control coefficient b can be estimated effectively. We aim at designing a feedback control such that the performance output $w ( 0 , t )$ satisfies

$$\int_ {0} ^ {\infty} | w (0, t) - r (t) | ^ {2} d t < + \infty , \tag {4.1}$$

where $r \in C ^ { \infty } [ 0 , + \infty )$ is a given reference. Performance output tracking for infinite-dimensional system has been studied extensively in recent years. However, to the best of our knowledge, the result about the infinite-dimensional systems with unknown control coefficient is still fairly scarce. All the approaches that have been used in [14], [15], [16], [8], [6] and [7] rely on the precise information on the control coefficient. Moreover, in contrast with the aforementioned results where the reference is assumed to be generated by an exosystem, the considered reference r is more general and is non-collocated to the controller. This also brings some difficulties to the controller design.

To achieve the desired output tracking, we need to construct the servo dynamics. Inspired by [12] and [10, Chapter 12], we let

$$v (x, t) = \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {\infty} r ^ {(j)} (t) \left[ \frac {x ^ {2 j}}{(2 j) !} - \frac {q x ^ {2 j + 1}}{(2 j + 1) !} \right], \quad x \in [ 0, 1 ], \quad t \geq 0. \tag {4.2}$$

By a simple computation, the function v is governed by

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} v _ {t} (x, t) = v _ {x x} (x, t), \\ v _ {x} (0, t) = - q r (t), \quad v (0, t) = r (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {4.3}
$$

and furthermore,

$$v _ {x} (1, t) = - q r (t) - \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {\infty} r ^ {(j)} (t) \left[ \frac {q}{(2 j) !} - \frac {1}{(2 j - 1) !} \right]. \tag {4.4}$$

If we let

$$z (x, t) = w (x, t) - v (x, t), \quad x \in [ 0, 1 ], \quad t \geq 0, \tag {4.5}$$

then

$$z (0, t) = w (0, t) - v (0, t) = w (0, t) - r (t), \quad t \geq 0, \tag {4.6}$$

and hence

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} z _ {t} (x, t) = z _ {x x} (x, t), \\ z _ {x} (0, t) = - q z (0, t), z _ {x} (1, t) = b u (t) - v _ {x} (1, t). \end{array} \right. \tag {4.7}
$$

It follows from (4.5) and (4.2) that

$$z (1, t) = w (1, t) - v (1, t) = w (1, t) - \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {\infty} r ^ {(j)} (t) \left[ \frac {1}{(2 j) !} - \frac {q}{(2 j + 1) !} \right]. \tag {4.8}$$
