# B. Comparison of System Behavior

In Fig. 2, we compare R-ETC with P-ETC in terms of the behavior of the Lyapunov function, the control updates, and the dwell times. We set $c = 1 0$ for the P-ETC approaches. It can be observed that the Lyapunov functions for R-ETC are monotonically decreasing. Conversely, the Lyapunov functions for P-ETC approaches sometimes increase, illustrating the flexibility of this approach. Notably, even though the Lyapunov functions under P-ETC approaches converge to zero slower than their regular counterparts, they remain below the performance barrier at all times, thereby meeting the nominal performance. Due to the flexibility of P-ETC Lyapunov functions, control updates under P-CETC and P-PETC are sparser than their regular counterparts. Meanwhile, P-STC slightly outperforms R-STC in terms of update sparsity.

We present the evolution of the system’s density, $\rho ( x , t )$ , and velocity, v(x, t), under open-loop, R-CETC, and P-CETC configurations in Fig. 3. The open-loop system exhibits unstable density-velocity oscillations, as shown in Fig. 3a and Fig. 3b, indicating that vehicles enter acceleration-deceleration cycles influenced by stop-and-go waves. R-CETC effectively suppresses these oscillations by applying VSL boundary control at the end of the road segment. In contrast, P-CETC sacrifices some suppression of oscillations in favor of sparser triggering, as it deviates from the strict decrease of the Lyapunov function.

Both R-ETC and P-ETC approaches, derived using the linearized ARZ model, are susceptible to Zeno behavior when applied to the nonlinear ARZ model because the nonlinear dynamics were not considered in the exclusion of Zeno behavior. Furthermore, P-ETC approaches (P-CETC, P-PETC, and P-STC) applied to the nonlinear ARZ model is prone to performance barrier violations since nonlinear components are not accounted for in the definition of the performance barrier, $e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } ^ { p }$ , the performance residual, $\bar { W ^ { p } ( t ) } : = e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } ^ { p } -$ $V ^ { p } ( t )$ , or in the Lyapunov function $V ^ { p } ( t )$ .
