Besides, privacy preservation ensures that the true initial states of the DC MG remain concealed from adversaries during consensus computation. To protect the initial states of each DC MG, an output mask function is introduced to obscure the internal states $\bar { V } _ { i }$ and $I _ { i } ,$ defined as follows.

Definition 4 ( [36]). The function $h _ { i } ( t , \bar { V } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } )$ is said an output mask with the privacy-preserving property for agent i if it is local and in addition:

C1: $h _ { i } ( 0 , \bar { V } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } ) \neq \bar { V } _ { i } , \forall \bar { V } _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N ;$   
C2: $h _ { i } ( t , { \bar { V } } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } )$ guarantees indiscernibility of the initial conditions;   
C3: $h _ { i } ( t , { \bar { V } } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } )$ does not preserve neighborhoods of any $\forall { \bar { V } } _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ;$   
C4: $h _ { i } ( t , { \bar { V } } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } )$ strictly increases in $\bar { V } _ { i }$ for each fixed t and ${ \pi } _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , N ;$   
C5: $| h _ { i } ( t , \bar { V } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } ) - \bar { V } _ { i } |$ is decreasing in t for each fixed $\bar { V } _ { i }$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \pi _ { i } , a n d \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } h _ { i } ( t , \bar { V } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } ) = \bar { V } _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , n . } \end{array}$ .

Remark 4. Definition 4 ensures privacy protection for the initial states of DC MG. Condition C1 guarantees that the output mask’s initial state differs from the agent’s actual state, preventing disclosure. Conditions C2 and C3 further support privacy requirements. Condition $C 4 ,$ a generalized form of the $K _ { \infty }$ function, ensures that $h _ { i } \left( t , \bar { V } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } \right)$ is a bijection in x for fixed t and π without preserving the origin. To enhance privacy, the mask can asymptotically converge to the true state, satisfying Condition C5. When $h _ { i } \left( t , \bar { V } _ { i } , \pi _ { i } \right)$ meets Definition $^ { 4 , }$ the initial state $\bar { V } _ { i } ( 0 )$ remains protected.

Now, we formulate the attack-resilient privacy-preserving control problems for DC MG against EU-FDI attacks while achieve privacy-preserving.

Problem (Attack-Resilient Privacy-Preserving Control Problem). Under the EU-FDI attacks on local control input channels, design local control protocols $u _ { i }$ in (11) for each converter using only the local measurement such that, for all initial conditions, ε in (13) is UUB while achieve privacypreserving. That is, the bounded global voltage regulation and proportional load sharing are both achieved.
