# A. Problem Formulation

Malicious attackers may inject EU-FDI attack signals to the local control input channel of each converter. Hence, instead of (2), for DC MG under EU-FDI attacks, the DC MG have

$$\dot {V} _ {n _ {i}} = \dot {V} _ {i} ^ {*} + R _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{vir}} \dot {I} _ {i} = \bar {u} _ {i} = u _ {i} + \delta_ {i}, \tag {11}$$

where $\bar { u } _ { i }$ represents the corrupted input signal, while $\delta _ { i }$ denotes the potential FDI attack injections targeting the local control input channel. The attackers’ objective is to destabilize the cooperative regulation system by injecting these FDI attack.

Definition 1 (Polynomially Unbounded Attack). The attack signals $\delta _ { i } \in C ^ { \gamma }$ are polynomially unbounded with the finite polynomial order of γ. That is, $| \dot { \delta } _ { i } ^ { ( \gamma ) } | \leq \kappa _ { i } ,$ , where $\gamma > 0$ is a scalar, and $\kappa _ { i }$ is a positive constant.

Remark 2. Definition 1 addresses a wider range of unbounded FDI attacks compared to [21], [24], [34], relaxing the requirement from bounded first-time derivatives to bounded higher-order derivatives. Depending on the defender’s computational power, the highest order $\gamma$ can be significantly large. Polynomially unbounded attacks on the control input may cause rapid variations in controlled variables, potentially leading to system instability due to saturation.

Definition 2 (EU-FDI Attack). Let $\delta _ { i }$ represent a cyberattack at time $t ,$ where $t \geq 0$ and i indexes a particular attribute or effect of the attack (such as the number of systems compromised, data volume stolen, etc.). An exponential cyberattack satisfies $| \delta _ { i } | \leq e ^ { \kappa _ { i } t }$ for some positive constant $\kappa _ { i } ,$ , where e is the base of natural logarithms.
