# B. Performance-barrier Periodic Event-triggered Control (P-PETC)

This section introduces the P-PETC approach, derived from the P-CETC scheme. This approach is realized by redesigning the triggering function, $\Gamma ^ { p } ( t )$ , of P-CETC to $\tilde { \Gamma } ^ { p } ( t )$ , allowing for periodic evaluation while ensuring that $\Gamma ^ { p } ( t )$ remains nonpositive and the dynamic variable $m ^ { p } ( t )$ remains positive along the P-PETC closed-loop system solution.

Let $\tilde { I } ^ { p } = \{ \tilde { t } _ { 0 } ^ { p } , \tilde { t } _ { 1 } ^ { p } , \tilde { t } _ { 2 } ^ { p } , \dots \}$ denote the sequence of event-times associated with P-PETC. Let the event-trigger parameters $\theta , \theta _ { m } , \kappa _ { 1 } , \kappa _ { 2 } , \kappa _ { 3 } > 0$ be selected as outlined in Assumption 2, let $\eta > 0$ be chosen later, and $c > 0$ be a design parameter. The proposed P-PETC strategy consists of two parts:

1) An ETC input $\tilde { U } _ { k } ^ { p }$

$$\tilde {U} _ {k} ^ {p} := U (\tilde {t} _ {k} ^ {p}), \tag {90}$$

for $t \in \left[ \tilde { t } _ { k } ^ { p } , \tilde { t } _ { k + 1 } ^ { p } \right) , k \in \mathbb { N } .$ where $U ( t )$ is given by (24). Then, the boundary condition (33) becomes

$$\bar {v} (\ell , t) = r _ {1} \tilde {U} _ {k} ^ {p}. \tag {91}$$

2) A periodic event-trigger determining the event-times

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {t} _ {k + 1} ^ {p} = \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R} _ {+} \mid t > \tilde {t} _ {k} ^ {p}, \tilde {\Gamma} ^ {p} (t) > 0, t = n h, \right. \tag {92} \\ h > 0, n \in \mathbb {N}, k \in \mathbb {N} \}, \\ \end{array}
$$

with $\tilde { t } _ { 0 } ^ { p } = 0 ,$ h is the sampling period satisfying (64), and the triggering function $\tilde { \Gamma } ^ { p } ( t )$ defined as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {\Gamma} ^ {p} (t) := \left(a + \theta \theta_ {m}\right) e ^ {a h} d ^ {2} (t) - \theta \theta_ {m} d ^ {2} (t) - \theta a m ^ {p} (t) \\ - \frac {a c}{\theta_ {m}} e ^ {- c h} W ^ {p} (t), \tag {93} \\ \end{array}
$$

where a is given by $( 5 3 ) , d ( t )$ is given by (34) for $t \in$ $[ \tilde { t } _ { k } ^ { p } , \tilde { t } _ { k + 1 } ^ { p } ) , \bar { k } \in \mathbb { N } , \bar { m } ^ { p } ( t )$ is governed by (78) along the solution of (35)-(38) for $t \in ( \tilde { t } _ { k } ^ { p } , \tilde { t } _ { k + 1 } ^ { p } ) , k \in \mathbb { N } .$ , and $W ^ { p } ( t )$ is the performance residual given by (79)-(81).

Next we present Lemmas 3-5, required for proving the main results of P-PETC in Theorem 4.

Lemma 3. Consider the P-PETC approach (90)-(93). For d(t) given by (34), it holds that
