# II. PROBLEM FORMULATION

Consider a linear time-varying system whose dynamics are described by the following discrete-time equation:

$$x _ {k + 1} = f _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}) = A _ {k} x _ {k} + B _ {k} u _ {k}, \tag {1}$$

where $x _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $u _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ are the state of the system and the control input, respectively, at time instant k. It is assumed that the pair $\left( A _ { k } , B _ { k } \right)$ is controllable and that the evolution of $A _ { k }$ and $B _ { k }$ for $k \in \mathbb N$ is perfectly known.

We consider possibly joint constraints on the state of the system and control input as $( x _ { k } , u _ { k } ) \in \mathcal { Z } _ { k } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n + m }$ , where $\mathcal { Z } _ { k } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n + m }$ is a time-varying closed convex polyhedron that contains the origin in its interior.

The stage cost $\ell _ { k } ^ { e } ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } , p )$ evaluates the economic performance associated with the system at time instant k. This, in addition to the state and control input, depends on an exogenous parameter $p ,$ which is allowed to be time-varying (it could also indicate the switching between different economic criteria); no assumption is made on the policy governing the behavior of this parameter. For the sake of a compact notation, we refer to $p _ { k }$ as $p$ in the rest of the paper.

Assumption 1: The system is periodic, with a periodicity of $T \in \mathbb { Z } _ { > 0 }$ sampling periods, i.e, at any time instant k it holds that

$$A _ {k} = A _ {k + T}, B _ {k} = B _ {k + T}, \mathcal {Z} _ {k} = \mathcal {Z} _ {k + T}, \tag {2a}\ell_ {k} ^ {e} (x, u, p) = \ell_ {k + T} ^ {e} (x, u, p), \forall (x, u) \in \mathcal {Z} _ {k}, \forall p. \tag {2b}$$

The performance of the system is assessed by calculating the average of the economic cost derived from the closedloop system trajectories, i.e.,

$$\lim _ {M \to \infty} \frac {1}{M} \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {M - 1} \ell_ {j} ^ {e} (x _ {j}, u _ {j}, p). \tag {3}$$

From this point forward, to keep notation compact, we may omit the subscript k when denoting quantities relative to instant $k ,$ if it is understood from the context.

Since the system has a periodic behavior as per Assumption 1, from [18, Theorem 1] we have that the trajectory which minimizes the cost in (3) is also periodic. This optimal trajectory, which we denote $( x ^ { \circ } , \mathbf { u } ^ { \circ } )$ , can be obtained by solving the following DRTO problem:
