where $W ^ { p } ( t ) : = e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } ^ { p } - V ^ { p } ( t )$ . This indicates that the time derivative of the Lyapunov function does not necessarily need to be negative at all times. If the performance residual $W ^ { p } ( t )$ is large—meaning that the Lyapunov function $V ^ { p } ( t )$

is significantly below the performance barrier $e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } ^ { p } -$ there is a reduced risk of violating the performance barrier. In such cases, $\dot { V } ^ { p } ( t )$ can be positive, allowing $V ^ { p } ( t )$ to increase. Conversely, if $W ^ { p } ( t )$ is relatively small—meaning the Lyapunov function $V ^ { p } ( t )$ is approaching the performance barrier $\bar { e } ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } ^ { p } .$ —the risk of breaching the performance barrier increases. In such situations, $\dot { V } ^ { p } ( t )$ must be negative to ensure that the Lyapunov function remains below the threshold.

Remark 4. According to the property R4 of Theorem 3, in the absence of external disturbances, the performance barrier associated with the Lyapunov function remains intact and cannot be breached. However, when disturbances are present, this barrier may be exceeded. Specifically, as time progresses to larger values, the performance residual $W ^ { p } ( t ) \stackrel { \textstyle - } { = } \ e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } - \bar { V } ^ { p } ( t )$ becomes increasingly sensitive to disturbances. To enhance the robustness of the P-CETC framework against such disturbances, the triggering function can be modified as follows:

$$\Gamma^ {p} (t) := d ^ {2} (t) - \theta m ^ {p} (t) - \frac {c}{\theta_ {m}} \max \big \{0, W ^ {p} (t) \big \}, \tag {88}$$

where $m ^ { p } ( t )$ satisfies the differential equation:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {m} ^ {p} (t) = - \eta m ^ {p} (t) - \theta_ {m} d ^ {2} (t) + \kappa_ {1} \| \alpha [ t ] \| ^ {2} + \kappa_ {2} \| \beta [ t ] \| ^ {2} \\ + \kappa_ {3} \alpha^ {2} (\ell , t) + c \max \left\{0, W ^ {p} (t) \right\}, \tag {89} \\ \end{array}
$$

for $t \in \mathsf { \Gamma } ( t _ { k } ^ { p } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { p } ) , j \in \mathbb { N }$ , with the initial and continuity conditions $m ^ { p } ( t _ { 0 } ^ { p } ) = m ^ { r } ( t _ { 0 } ^ { r } ) > 0$ and $m ^ { p } ( t _ { k } ^ { p - } ) = m ^ { p } ( t _ { k } ^ { p } ) =$ $m ^ { p } ( t _ { k } ^ { p + } )$ .
