Still, variations in the economic criteria while the system is operating can cause additional problems for the two-layer approach. This is mainly because the optimal solution needs to be recalculated in real time. However, the DRTO layer has a much longer computational time than the MPC, which could make online computation impossible, leading to a loss of optimality. In response to this issue, and following the idea proposed in [17], a number of studies have focused on singlelayer E-MPC formulations, i.e., integrating the real-time DRTO and control stages into a unique layer. In the particular context of constrained periodic linear systems, the authors of [18] propose a single-layer architecture ensuring convergence to the optimal periodic trajectory. The formulation in [19] drops the requirement of the MPC terminal constraint under given dissipativity and controllability conditions, specifically focusing on scenarios where the optimal operating behavior is periodic.

A key difficulty with one-layer E-MPC approaches is their resolution in real time. In two-layer approaches, the lower layer is typically designed to be resource-efficient. For the latter, it is common to adopt a tracking MPC, which presents a quadratic program (QP) formulation and allows for the use of tailored solvers, enabling more computationally efficient implementations [20], [21]. For the specific context of periodic systems, the authors of [22] focus on enhancing the performance of the tracking MPC layer to achieve local equivalence with the economic upper layer, although an upper layer to calculate the trajectories for tracking is still required. Note that this could be avoided if the E-MPC would directly present a $\mathrm { Q P }$ formulation; however, this is not common because of the inherently non-quadratic nature of economic objectives. An approach to achieve the formulation of the E-MPC directly as a $\mathrm { Q P }$ problem is presented in [18], although for non-periodic operation. This approach is based on a first-order Taylor approximation of the economic objective function, guaranteeing the convergence to the steadystate optimum (see also [5]).
