# B. Sampled-data and event-based control of PDE systems

Despite the rich literature on boundary control of the ARZ traffic model, it remains evident that the assumption of drivers responding promptly to a continuously updating advisory speed is not realistic. An immediate workaround is discretizing the continuous-time control law and implementing it as sampled-data control in a zero-order hold fashion. However, while a lower sampling rate of discretization is more realistic for drivers to adhere to the advisory speed, there is a caveat: the stability or convergence properties ensured by the continuous-time control may no longer be valid. As a result, it is crucial to establish the theoretical maximum allowable sampling interval of sampling schedules that maintain the desired closed-loop system properties. This upper limit must be determined based on worst-case scenarios, regardless of how rare or infrequent they might be. Consequently, the sampling schedules usually need to be chosen conservatively. Event-triggered control (ETC) provides a systematic solution to tackle the conservativeness of sampled-data control by bringing feedback into control update tasks. The control input is updated only when triggered by an appropriate event triggering mechanism based on system states and is held constant between events. This approach removes the need to confine the sampling period to a worst-case value, allowing for fewer control updates while preserving a satisfactory closed-loop system performance.
