Remark 3. This definition asserts that the impact of the attack grows exponentially with respect to time, with $\kappa _ { i }$ determining the rate of exponential growth. The condition $| \delta _ { i } | \ \leq \ e ^ { \kappa _ { i } \bar { t } }$ ensures that the impact does not exceed the exponential function $e ^ { \kappa _ { i } t }$ at any time t. The attackers’ injections $\delta _ { i }$ can be any EU-FDI attacks signals. Compable with the resilient control protocols for DC MG in [17] and [18], which deal with bounded noises/disturbances, our research addresses the emerging and realistic threat of unbounded attack injections in quantum-influenced cyber environments. The projection of cyberattack signals increasing at an exponential rate reflects a plausible risk in the quantum era, where limitations on the power of attack signals are increasingly less defined.

Use (9) and (10), one has

$$\dot {\varepsilon} = - \mathrm{diag} (c _ {i}) (\mathcal {L} + \mathcal {G}) \varepsilon \tag {12}$$

Consider the attack injections in (11) and use the standard secondary control protocols (3) and(4), based on (13), the error dynamics under EU-FDI attacks is

$$\dot {\varepsilon} = - \mathrm{diag} \left(c _ {i}\right) (\mathcal {L} + \mathcal {G}) \varepsilon + \delta \tag {13}$$

where $\boldsymbol { \delta } ~ = ~ \left[ \delta _ { 1 } ^ { \mathrm { T } } , \dots , \delta _ { N } ^ { \mathrm { T } } \right] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ is the attack vector. Since δ is exponentially unbounded, ε is also exponentially unbounded. That is, the standard secondary control fails to preserve the stability of the DC MG in the presence of EU-FDI attacks. It is hence important to develop advanced attack-resilient control approach to address such unbounded attacks for MG.

To evaluate the convergence results of the attack-resilient method to be designed, the following definition is introduced.

Definition 3 ( [35]). x(t) ∈ R is UUB with the ultimate bound b, if there exist constants $b , c > 0 ,$ , independent of $t _ { 0 } \geq 0 ,$ , and for every $a \in ( 0 , c )$ , there exists $t _ { 1 } = t _ { 1 } ( a , b ) \geq 0 ,$ , independent of $t _ { 0 } ,$ , such that

$$\left| x \left(t _ {0}\right) \right| \leq a \Rightarrow | x (t) | \leq b, \quad \forall t \geq t _ {0} + t _ {1} \tag {14}$$
