Notations: In this paper, ${ \bf 1 } _ { N } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ represents a vector in which every entry is one. The notation |·| denotes the absolute value of a real number. Additionally, diag $\{ \cdot \}$ is used to form a diagonal matrix from a given set of elements. A physical, islanded DC MG system is modeled as a communication digraph G . This DC MG system comprises N converters. The interactions among local converters are represented by the graph $\mathcal { G } = ( \mathcal { W } , \mathcal { E } , \mathcal { A } )$ , where $\mathcal { W } = \{ 0 , 1 , 2 , \hdots , N \}$ is the set of vertices, 0 denotes the leader, and $1 \cdots N$ denote the followers. $\mathcal { E } \subset \mathcal { W } \times \mathcal { W }$ is the set of edges, and $\mathcal { A } = \left[ a _ { i j } \right]$ is the adjacency matrix. An edge in the graph, representing the information flow from converter j to converter $i ,$ is denoted by $( w _ { j } , w _ { i } )$ and is assigned a weight of $a _ { i j } . \operatorname { I f } \left( w _ { j } , w _ { i } \right) \in \mathcal { E }$ , then $a _ { i j } > 0 ;$ otherwise, $a _ { i j } = 0$ . A node j is considered a neighbor of node i if $( w _ { j } , w _ { i } ) \in \mathcal { E }$ . The set of neighbors for node i is defined as $\mathcal { N } _ { i } \stackrel { \cdot } { = } \{ j | \left( w _ { j } , w _ { i } \right) \in \mathcal { E } \}$ . The system includes one leader node, while the other nodes are followers, which may be subject to FDI attacks. The leader node disseminates the reference value to those converters that can receive its information. Each converter directly receives relative information from linked converters in a sparse communication digraph. The in-degree matrix $\mathcal { D } = \mathrm { d i a g } \mathbf { \bar { ( } } d _ { i } \mathbf { ) } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$ , is defined with $\begin{array} { r } { d _ { i } = \sum _ { j \in \mathcal { N } _ { i } } a _ { i j } } \end{array}$ , representing the sum of the weights of the edges incident to node i. The Laplacian matrix of the graph is given by $\mathcal { L } = \mathcal { D } - \mathcal { A }$ . We assume that $\mathcal { G }$ is bidirectional, implying $a _ { i j } = a _ { j i } ,$ , which makes $\mathcal { L }$ not only semi-positive but also symmetric. The pinning gain $g _ { i }$ represents the influence from the leader to converter $i \colon g _ { i } > 0$ if there is a link from the leader node to node $i ,$ and $g _ { i } = 0$ otherwise. The pinning gain matrix is defined as ${ \mathcal { G } } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( g _ { i } )$ .
