# C. Results

Leveraging the recently introduced performance-barrier based ETC (P-ETC) for nonlinear ODEs [24] and its adaptation to boundary control of a class of parabolic PDEs [30], our work applies P-ETC to variable speed limit (VSL) boundary control of the linearized inhomogeneous ARZ model. This approach results in substantially longer intervals between events (dwell-times) compared to the dynamic ETC strategies [9], [11] previously applied to the linearized ARZ model.

The triggering mechanisms discussed in [9] and [11] enforce a monotonic decrease in the closed-loop system’s Lyapunov function. We classify these strategies at a broader level as regular ETC (R-ETC), distinguishing them from the P-ETC introduced in the present contribution. The monotonic decrease of the Lyapunov function is achieved by ensuring its time derivative remains strictly negative. This approach certifies that the Lyapunov function decreases faster than a specific exponentially decaying signal, which depends on initial data and is known as the performance-barrier. Drawing on previous research [24] and [30], allowing deviations from a monotonically decreasing Lyapunov function, while still adhering to the performance barrier, might prolong the duration between events. To enable this leeway in the Lyapunov function’s behavior, we incorporate the so-called performance residual into the event-triggering mechanism. This residual is defined as the difference between the performance barrier and the Lyapunov function. Consequently, by design, the P-ETC allows for longer dwell-times in any given state, compared to the R-ETC. Notably, this is achieved without inducing Zeno behavior in the closed-loop system, while still maintaining adherence to the performance barrier, leading to the exponential convergence of the system states to zero in the spatial $L ^ { 2 }$ norm. Since the triggering function requires continuous monitoring in order to detect events, we refer to this strategy specifically as P-CETC. For similar reasons, we refer to the strategies in [9] and [11] as R-CETC.
