Building upon the techniques introduced in [29] for parabolic PDEs, we further aim to circumvent the need for continuous monitoring of the triggering functions in the R-CETC and P-CETC. To achieve this, we extend these methods to PETC and STC, resulting in what we refer to as R- and P-PETC and R- and P-STC, respectively. Both R-PETC and P-PETC employ periodic event-triggering functions, which are established by deriving explicit upper bounds on the underlying continuous-time event-triggering functions. Since the triggering functions are evaluated periodically, Zeno behavior is inherently absent in both R-PETC and P-PETC. In the case of STC, we develop the R- and P-STC by designing state dependent functions with uniform and positive lower bounds, which when evaluated at the current control update time produces the waiting time until the next control update. These functions are designed via obtaining upper bounds on the variables that constitute the R- and P-CETC event-triggering functions. Both R-STC and P- STC are also inherently Zenofree, since they maintain a uniform, positive lower bound for dwell-times. The R-PETC and R-STC force the Lyapunov function to strictly decrease along the closed-loop system solution, while the P-PETC and P-STC permit occasional increases in the Lyapunov function, as long as it stays below the established performance barrier, resulting in longer dwelltimes between events compared to their regular counterparts. All the introduced PETC and STC strategies guarantee the exponential convergence of the closed-loop system states to zero in the spatial $\overline { { L ^ { 2 } } }$ norm.
