$$
\begin{array}{l} H (t) := 3 \varrho \int_ {0} ^ {\ell} \left(\frac {1}{v ^ {\star}} \alpha^ {2} (x, t) e ^ {- \frac {\mu x}{v ^ {\star}}} \right. \tag {73} \\ \left. + \frac {r _ {0} ^ {2}}{(\gamma p ^ {\star} - v ^ {\star})} \beta^ {2} (x, t) e ^ {\frac {\mu x}{(\gamma p ^ {\star} - v ^ {\star})}}\right) d x. \\ \end{array}
$$

R-STC distinguishes itself from both R-CETC and R-PETC because R-STC proactively determines the subsequent eventtime based on the system state at the current event time, without monitoring any triggering function. We now state the results under R-STC and R-PETC, in the following theorem.

Theorem 2 (Results under R-STC (resp. R-PETC)). Let $\check { I } ^ { r } = \{ \check { t } _ { 0 } ^ { r } , \check { t } _ { 1 } ^ { r } , \check { t } _ { 2 } ^ { r } , \dots \}$ with $\check { t } _ { 0 } ^ { r } = 0$ (resp. $\tilde { I } ^ { r } = \{ \tilde { t } _ { 0 } ^ { r } , \tilde { t } _ { 1 } ^ { r } , \tilde { t } _ { 2 } ^ { r } , \dots \}$ with $\tilde { t } _ { 0 } ^ { r } = 0 )$ be the set of increasing event-times generated by the R-STC approach (66)-(73) (resp. R-PETC approach (61)- (65)) with appropriate choices for the event-trigger parameters under Assumption 2. Then, the following results hold:

R1: For every $\begin{array} { r l r } { \left( \bar { w } ( \cdot , 0 ) , \bar { v } ( \cdot , 0 ) \right) ^ { T } } & { { } \in } & { L ^ { 2 } \left( ( 0 , \ell ) ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right) } \end{array}$ , there exists a unique solution $( \bar { w } , \bar { v } ) ^ { T } \in$ $\mathcal { C } ^ { 0 } \left( \mathbb { R } _ { + } ; L ^ { 2 } \left( ( 0 , \ell ) ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right) \right)$ to the R-STC closed-loop system $( 1 3 ) – ( 1 5 ) , ( 1 7 ) – ( 2 1 ) , ( 6 6 ) – ( 7 3 )$ (resp. R-PETC closed-loop system (13)-(15),(17)-(21),(61)-(65)) for all $t > 0 .$ .

R2: $\Gamma ^ { r } ( t )$ given by (42) satisfies $\Gamma ^ { r } ( t ) \leq 0$ for all $t > 0 ,$ , along the R-STC (resp. R-PETC) closed-loop solution.

R3: The dynamic variable $m ^ { r } ( t )$ governed by (43) with m $\iota ^ { r } ( 0 ) > 0$ satisfies $m ^ { r } ( t ) > 0$ for all $t > 0 ,$ , along the R-STC (resp. R-PETC) closed-loop solution.

R4: The Lyapunov candidate $V ^ { r } ( t )$ given by (55),(56) satisfies $( 5 7 ) , ( 5 9 ) , ( 6 0 )$ for all $t \in ( \check { t } _ { k } ^ { r } , \check { t } _ { k + 1 } ^ { r } ) , k \in \mathbb { N }$ (respect. $t \in ( \tilde { t } _ { k } ^ { r } , \tilde { t } _ { k + 1 } ^ { r } ) , k \in \mathbb { N } )$ and (58)-(60) for all $t > 0 ,$ , along the R-STC (resp. R-PETC) closed-loop solution.

R5: The closed-loop signal $\| \bar { w } [ t ] \| + \| \bar { v } [ t ] \|$ associated with the R-STC (resp. R-PETC) closed-loop system exponentially converges to zero.

The proof of Theorem 2 follows arguments similar to those in the proofs of Theorem 4 in Section IV-B and Theorem 5 in Section IV-C, and is therefore omitted.
