# II. STANDARD COOPERATIVE SECONDARY CONTROL

In the standard secondary control, each converter transmits ${ \mathrm { X } } _ { i } = [ \bar { V } _ { i } , R _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { v i r } } I _ { i } ]$ to its neighbors via a communication graph, where $\bar { V } _ { i }$ is the estimated average voltage, $I _ { i }$ is the output current, and $R _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { v i r } }$ is a virtual impedance set as $R _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { v i r } } = k / I _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { r a t e d } }$ Since $R _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { v i r } } I _ { i } = \stackrel { \cdot } { k } I _ { i } / I _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { r a t e d } }$ , achieving proportional load sharing reduces to achieving consensus on $R _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { v i r } } I _ { i }$ .

Based on [31], the standard cooperative secondary control for DC MG transforms the problem into consensus control for first-order linear MAS. Its primary objectives are to regulate the average voltage to a global reference and ensure proportional load sharing. Using relative information from neighboring converters, the secondary control adjusts the local voltage setpoint $V _ { i } .$ . At the primary level, the droop mechanism employs a virtual impedance $R _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { v i r } }$ to model the converter’s output impedance. Cooperative secondary control fine-tunes $V _ { i }$ and mitigates voltage and current residuals. The local voltage setpoint is given as

$$V _ {i} ^ {*} = V _ {n _ {i}} + V _ {\text { ref }} - R _ {i} ^ {\text { vir }} I _ {i} \tag {1}$$

where $V _ { n _ { i } }$ is the reference for the primary control level and is selected at the secondary control level.

To achieve global voltage regulation and proportional load sharing, the secondary control locally provides $V _ { n _ { i } }$ for each converter through data exchange with neighbors. By applying input-output feedback linearization, the voltage droop mechanism in (1) is differentiated to obtain

$$\dot {V} _ {n _ {i}} = \dot {V} _ {i} ^ {*} + R _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{vir}} \dot {i} _ {i} = u _ {i}, \tag {2}$$

where $u _ { i }$ is the control input, and (2) computes the primary control reference $V _ { n _ { i } }$ from $u _ { i }$ . The secondary control is reformulated as a consensus problem for first-order linear MAS. To achieve global voltage regulation and proportional load sharing, the cooperative secondary control law for each converter, based on relative information from neighbors, is given by
