The proof follows steps similar to those in Lemma 1 of [30] and is therefore omitted.

Lemma 2. Assume that an event has occurred at $t = t ^ { \star } \geq 0$ under P-CETC (74)-(81). If the next event time $\begin{array} { r l } { t } & { { } = \begin{array} { l } { \ t ^ { p } } \end{array} } \end{array}$ generated by P-CETC is finite, then the next event time $t = t ^ { r }$ generated by R-CETC (39)-(43) satisfies $t ^ { r } \leq t ^ { p }$ , provided that $m ^ { r } \left( t ^ { \star } \right) = m ^ { p } \left( t ^ { \star } \right) > 0$ and $e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } \geq V ^ { p } ( t )$ for all $t \in [ t ^ { \star } , t ^ { r } ]$ . The equality holds $i f \ e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 } \ = \ V ^ { p } ( t )$ for all $t \in [ t ^ { \star } , t ^ { r } = t ^ { p } ] ,$ .

The proof follows steps similar to those in Lemma 2 of [30] and is therefore omitted.

Now we state the main results of P-CETC below.

Theorem 3 (Results under P-CETC). Let $\begin{array} { r l } { I ^ { p } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ 1 $\{ t _ { 0 } ^ { p } , t _ { 1 } ^ { p } , t _ { 2 } ^ { p } , \ldots \}$ with $t _ { 0 } ^ { p } = 0$ be the set of event-times generated by the P-CETC approach (74)-(81) with appropriate choices for the event-trigger parameters under Assumption 2, and $c > 0 .$ . Then, it holds that

$$\Gamma^ {p} (t) \leq 0, \forall t \in [ 0, \sup (I ^ {p})). \tag {82}$$

As a result, the following results hold:

R1: The set of event-timquence. It holds that $t _ { k + 1 } ^ { p } - t _ { k } ^ { p } \geq \tau _ { d } > 0 , k \in \mathbb { N } ,$ ing se-, where the minimal dwell-time $\tau _ { d }$ is given by $( 5 2 ) \AA - ( 5 4 )$ . Since $\tau _ { d } > 0 ,$ as $k  \infty ,$ it follows that $t _ { k } ^ { p } \to \infty ,$ , thereby guaranteeing Zeno-free behavior.

R2: For every $\begin{array} { r l r } { \left( \bar { w } ( \cdot , 0 ) , \bar { v } ( \cdot , 0 ) \right) ^ { T } } & { { } \in } & { L ^ { 2 } \left( ( 0 , \ell ) ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right) } \end{array}$ , there exists a unique solution $( \bar { w } , \bar { v } ) ^ { T } \in$ $\mathcal { C } ^ { 0 } \left( \mathbb { R } _ { + } ; L ^ { 2 } \left( ( 0 , \ell ) ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right) \right)$ to the system $( 1 3 ) ‐ ( 1 5 ) , ( 1 7 ) -$ - (21),(74)-(81) for all $t > 0 .$ .

R3: The dynamic variable $m ^ { p } ( t )$ governed by (78) with $m ^ { p } ( 0 ) > 0$ satisfies $m ^ { p } ( t ) > 0$ for all $t > 0 .$ .

R4: The Lyapunov candidate $V ^ { p } ( t )$ given by (80),(81) satisfies

$$\dot {V} ^ {p} (t) \leq - b ^ {\star} V ^ {p} (t) + c \big (e ^ {- b ^ {\star} t} V _ {0} - V ^ {p} (t) \big), \tag {83}$$

for all $t \in ( t _ { k } ^ { p } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { p } ) , j \in \mathbb { N } ,$ , and

$$V ^ {p} (t) \leq e ^ {- b ^ {\star} t} V _ {0}, \tag {84}$$

for all $t > 0 ,$ where b⋆ is given by (59).
