# A. Regular Continuous-time Event-triggered Control (R-CETC)

The design of R-CETC is detailed in [9], [11]. However, the parameters in the triggering mechanism and the conditions for parameter selection are presented in a complex way. In this paper, we present the details of a more straightforward approach to the triggering mechanism and parameter choices. Since R-CETC serves as a foundation for R-PETC and R-STC, below we summarize the main results of R-CETC.

Let $I ^ { r } = \{ t _ { 0 } ^ { r } , t _ { 1 } ^ { r } , t _ { 2 } ^ { r } , \ldots \}$ denote the sequence of event-times associated with R-CETC, and it consists of two parts:

1) An ETC input $U _ { k } ^ { r }$

$$U _ {k} ^ {r} := U (t _ {k} ^ {r}), \tag {39}$$

for $t \in \left[ t _ { k } ^ { r } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { r } \right) , k \in \mathbb { N } .$ where $U ( t )$ is given by (24). Then, the boundary condition (33) becomes

$$\bar {v} (\ell , t) = r _ {1} U _ {k} ^ {r}. \tag {40}$$

2) A continuous-time event-trigger determining eventtimes,

$$t _ {k + 1} ^ {r} = \inf \left\{t \in \mathbb {R} _ {+} \mid t > t _ {k} ^ {r}, \Gamma^ {r} (t) > 0, k \in \mathbb {N} \right\}, \tag {41}$$

with $t _ { 0 } ^ { r } ~ = ~ 0 $ , where $\Gamma ^ { r } ( t )$ is the triggering function defined as

$$\Gamma^ {r} (t) := d ^ {2} (t) - \theta m ^ {r} (t). \tag {42}$$

The function d(t) is given by (34) for $t \in$ $\left[ t _ { k } ^ { r } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { r } \right) , k \in \mathbb { N } .$ , and $m ^ { r } ( t )$ satisfies the ODE

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {m} ^ {r} (t) = - \eta m ^ {r} (t) - \theta_ {m} d ^ {2} (t) + \kappa_ {1} \| \alpha [ t ] \| ^ {2} + \kappa_ {2} \| \beta [ t ] \| ^ {2} \\ + \kappa_ {3} \alpha^ {2} (\ell , t), \tag {43} \\ \end{array}
$$

for $t \in \left( t _ { k } ^ { r } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { r } \right) , k \in \mathbb { N }$ with m $^ r \left( t _ { 0 } ^ { r } \right) = m ^ { r } ( 0 ) > 0$ and $m ^ { r } \left( t _ { k } ^ { r - } \right) = m ^ { r } \left( t _ { k } ^ { r } \right) = m ^ { r } \left( t _ { k } ^ { r + } \right)$ . The parameters $\theta , \eta , \theta _ { m } , \kappa _ { 1 } , \kappa _ { 2 } , \kappa _ { 3 } > 0$ are event-trigger parameters to be appropriately chosen.

Below, we outline the conditions on event-trigger parameters that ensure the Zeno-free behavior and the exponential convergence of the closed-loop signals of the system (13)-(15),(17)- (21),(39)-(43) to zero in the spatial $L ^ { 2 }$ norm.

Assumption 2 (Event-trigger parameter selection). The parameters $\theta , \eta ~ > ~ 0$ are arbitrary design parameters, and $\kappa _ { 1 } , \kappa _ { 2 } , \kappa _ { 3 } > 0$ are chosen as
