R2: For every $\begin{array} { r l r l } & { ( \bar { w } ( \cdot , 0 ) , \bar { v } ( \cdot , 0 ) ) ^ { T } } & { { } \in } & { L ^ { 2 } \left( ( 0 , \ell ) ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right) } \end{array}$ , there exists a unique solution $( \bar { w } , \bar { v } ) ^ { T } \in$ ∈ $\mathcal { C } ^ { 0 } \left( \mathbb { R } _ { + } ; L ^ { 2 } \left( ( 0 , \ell ) ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \right) \right)$ to the system $( 1 3 ) ‐ ( 1 5 ) , ( 1 7 ) -$ - (21),(39)-(43) for all $t > 0 .$ .

R3: The dynamic variable $m ^ { r } ( t )$ governed by (43) with $m ^ { r } ( 0 ) > 0$ satisfies mr $\dot { \mathbf { \rho } } ( t ) > 0 \mathbf { \rho } f o r$ all $t > 0 .$ .

R4: Consider a Lyapunov candidate

$$V ^ {r} (t) = V _ {1} (t) + m ^ {r} (t), \tag {55}$$

where

$$V _ {1} (t) := \int_ {0} ^ {\ell} \left(\frac {C}{v ^ {\star}} \alpha^ {2} (x, t) e ^ {- \frac {\mu x}{v ^ {\star}}} \right. \tag {56}\left. + \frac {C r _ {0} ^ {2}}{\gamma p ^ {\star} - v ^ {\star}} \beta^ {2} (x, t) e ^ {\frac {\mu x}{\gamma p ^ {\star} - v ^ {\star}}}\right) d x,$$

Then, it holds that

$$\dot {V} ^ {r} (t) \leq - b ^ {\star} V ^ {r} (t), \tag {57}$$

for all $t \in ( t _ { k } ^ { r } , t _ { k + 1 } ^ { r } ) , k \in \mathbb { N } ,$ and

$$V ^ {r} (t) \leq e ^ {- b ^ {\star} t} V _ {0}, \tag {58}$$

for all $t > 0 ,$ , where $V _ { 0 } = V ^ { r } ( 0 )$ and

$$b ^ {\star} := \min \{b, \eta \} > 0, \tag {59}$$

with

$$b := \mu - \frac {\max \{\kappa_ {1} , \kappa_ {2} \} r}{C} > 0. \tag {60}$$

See Assumption 2 for details on $\mu , \kappa _ { 1 } , \kappa _ { 2 } , r , C , \eta > 0 .$

R5: The closed-loop signal $\| \bar { w } [ t ] \| + \| \bar { v } [ t ] \|$ associated with the system (13)-(15),(17)-(21),(39)-(43), exponentially converges to zero.

See the Appendix for the proof.

Remark 2. We refer to the signal $e ^ { - b ^ { \star } t } V _ { 0 }$ in (58) as the performance barrier, which the Lyapunov function of the system must not violate. The estimate for the time derivative of $V ^ { r } ( t )$ provided in (57) indicates that R-CETC enforces a strict decrease in the Lyapunov function $V ^ { r } ( t )$ in (55) along system trajectories. However, this strict requirement limits R-CETC’s ability to achieve sparser control updates. Addressing this limitation is the objective of our design for performancebarrier event triggers, detailed in Section IV.
