# A. Cyber-Physical Resilience

Cyber resilience is essential for operating CPPSs, as it enables the rapid reconfiguration of cyber topology between cyber nodes during a system contingency. We aim to first enhance cyber resilience on the cyber layer during a cyberattack, and then study the coupled cyber and physical actions to optimize the impacted physical power system operation. In specific, the cyber resilience is achieved by dynamically updating the cyber topology to 1) ensure the interconnection on a set of critical cyber nodes, and 2) interact cyber nodes with the physical layer to adaptively isolate the compromised cyber components. Regarding cyberattacks, we take the example of combined cyber-physical attacks that can lead to the isolation of a cyber node and the dysfunction of the generators.

Assume a set of critical cyber nodes denoted as $\kappa =$ $\{ \hat { \imath } _ { \tilde { 1 } } , \hdots , \hat { \imath } _ { \tilde { k } } \}$ , e.g., nodes responsible for controlling generator buses. During a cyberattack (e.g., false data injection), a corrupted cyber resource $\hat { \imath } _ { \tilde { c } } \in \mathcal { K }$ needs to be isolated and replaced. To this end, we utilize a set of neighboring cyber resources $\mathcal { M } _ { \widehat { \imath } _ { \widetilde { c } } }$ of node $\hat { \imath } _ { \tilde { c } } ,$ as potential candidates for reconstructing communication topology after the cyber attack. Importantly, the selection of neighboring cyber nodes has the benefits of: 1) providing faster control of physical resources with closer geographical distances; and 2) facilitating the reconstruction of cyber communication links with less rerouting costs. Therefore, the cyber reconfiguration guides the control of physical resources (e.g., flexible loads and backup ESSs) to quickly restore the power system to optimal operation states.
