# 2 Robotic arm dynamic model

A planar rotational 3-DOF robot consists of three rotating joints and three links, as shown in figure 1; at the end of the third link, an End Effector is installed to carry loads. Also, the figure indicates that this robot is connected to a base at joint-1. According to [16] proposed model for the 3-DOF robotic arm, the dynamic differential equation model captures the complex motion and interaction of forces in robotic arms. This equation is crucial for understanding and controlling robotic arm dynamics, as it comprehensively describes the arm’s motion by accounting for three critical dynamic components:

$$M (\theta) \ddot {\theta} + C (\theta , \dot {\theta}) + G (\theta) = \tau \tag {1}$$

Where $\boldsymbol { \theta } = ( \theta _ { 1 } , \theta _ { 2 } , \theta _ { 3 } ) ^ { T } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 1 }$ corresponds to the angular positions for the arms, $\dot { \theta } = ( \dot { \theta } _ { 1 } , \dot { \theta } _ { 2 } , \dot { \theta } _ { 3 } ) ^ { T } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 1 }$ corresponds to the angular velocity vector of order $3 \times 1$ , and $\ddot { \theta } = ( \ddot { \theta } _ { 1 } , \ddot { \theta } _ { 2 } , \ddot { \theta } _ { 3 } ) ^ { T }$ represents the angular acceleration vector.

$M ( \theta ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 3 }$ is the actual inertia matrix of order ${ \bf 3 } \times { \bf 3 } , C ( \theta , \dot { \theta } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 1 }$ is the $3 \times 1$ inertia matrix representing centrifugal and Coriolis forces, and $G ( \theta ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 \times 1 }$ is the inertia vector of order $3 \times 1$ , which represents the gravity matrix.

Finally, τ is the system control input. This paper aims to implement accurate and fast trajectory tracking of robotic arms with minimum error. Lemma 1, For the following nonlinear system [17]:

$$\dot {x} = f (t, x), x (0) = x _ {0}, x \in R ^ {n} \tag {2}$$

Where $f ( t , x )$ is a continuous function. If V (x) is considered as a Lyapunov function which satisfies: 1. $V ( x ) = 0 $ $x = 0 , 2 . \dot { V } ( x ) \le a V ^ { \gamma _ { 1 } } ( x ) - b V ^ { \gamma _ { 2 } } ( x )$ ,

where $a , b > 0 , \gamma _ { 1 } > 1$ , and $0 < \gamma _ { 2 } < 1$ .

Then, the system defined in equation (2) is finite-time stable. Moreover, if T represents the settling time of the system, it will satisfy:

$$T \leq \frac {1}{a (\gamma_ {1} - 1)} + \frac {1}{b (1 - \gamma_ {2})}.$$

According to Lemma 1, if there is a Lyapunov function V(x), the finite time convergence of FSTMC is promised.
