5) Comparison between AVCBFs and HOCBFs: We test the adaptivity to conservativeness of control strategy from four different controllers by changing the hyperparameters $k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 }$ inside the class κ functions in (56) and (58). Since the initial heading angle is 0, the vehicle is initially directed toward the center of the obstacle, making this a highly challenging case. The closer the initial location of the vehicle is to the obstacle, the more difficult it becomes to avoid a collision. It can be observed in Fig. 4a that under the HOCBF-based QP, the optimization becomes infeasible (denoted by the cross symbol) before the vehicle reaches the green target area, regardless of the chosen set of hyperparameters. In contrast, AVCBF-1 enables the vehicle to reach the target area under certain initial location and hyperparameter settings shown in Fig. 4b; however, infeasibility may still arise when hyperparameters are large (e.g., if $k _ { 1 } = k _ { 2 } = 1 0$ , the vehicle tends to brake late, which can lead to an aggressive control strategy). If we use AVCBF-P (Fig. 4c) or AVCBF-2 (Fig. 4d), the vehicle will safely reach the target area, regardless of the chosen initial locations or hyperparameters. By comparing AVCBF-1 and AVCBF-2, we observe that the additional auxiliary function further enhances the feasibility of solving the QP (as stated in Rem. 5). Through AVCBF-P, we demonstrate that even with only one auxiliary function, feasibility and safety can still be guaranteed by adjusting the hyperparameter $a _ { 1 , w } ( t )$ using the parametrization method. Moreover, the conservativeness of the control strategy can be reduced by AVCBF-2 or AVCBF-P, as the auxiliary function can dynamically influence $k _ { 1 }$ and $k _ { 2 }$ regardless of how conservatively they are set.
