which is immediate to verify that it is positive definite and radially unbounded. It is continuous, but it is not differentiable everywhere in $\mathbb { R } ^ { r } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ . Danskin’s theorem, see [8] for details, applies and provides the one-sided directional derivative

$$
D _ {+} \nu = \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} \dot {v}, & v > V \\ \dot {V}, & v <   V \\ \max \{\dot {v}, \dot {V} \}, & v = V \end{array} \right. \tag {38}
$$

In the region of the joint state space defined by $v ( \zeta ) >$ $V ( x )$ we have $\nu ( \zeta , x ) = v ( \zeta )$ which together with (18) and (38) yields $\overset { \cdot \ w } { D _ { + } } \nu ( \zeta , x ) = \dot { v } ( \zeta ) < 0$ . Likewise, in the region defined by $v ( \zeta ) < V ( x )$ we have $\nu ( \zeta , x ) = V ( x )$ which together with (32) and (38) yield $D _ { + } \dot { \nu } ( \zeta , x ) \stackrel { . } { = }$ $\dot { V } ( x ) < 0$ . Finally in the region defined by $v ( \zeta ) = V ( x )$ , both time-derivatives in (18) and (32) are negative and consequently (38) yields $D _ { + } \nu ( \zeta , x ) ~ < ~ 0$ as well. This shows that the $( \zeta , x ) \to ( 0 , 0 )$ as t goes to infinity, that is, the trajectories of the system under consideration converge to the origin whatever initial condition. The claim is proven. ✷

The time behavior of the interconnected system can be assessed by means of the Lyapunov function $\nu ( \zeta , x )$ given in (37) and its one-sided derivative (38). With this Lyapunov function, the next Corollary shows that the elapsed time to transit from any initial condition to the origin is not finite. Instead, what is finite is the elapsed time necessary to reach, from any initial condition outside it, a certain residual set X containing the origin. This is an expected behavior, which resembles what occurs in sliding mode control, when a trajectory hits the sliding surface and then evolves according to a linear differential equation, naturally exhibiting exponential decay. In fact, by considering a different definition for the variable z it is possible to show that the origin of the nonlinear system $\mathcal { S } _ { N }$ with a corresponding modified state ¯x is reached in finite time. This result will be discussed in Section 6.
