Approach: In this paper, we introduce a time-varying auxiliary variable a(t). Additionally, we will develop a new constraint $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } , a ( t ) ) \ge 0$ based on the function $b ( { \pmb x } )$ , and we require that when $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } , a ( t ) ) \ge 0$ is satisfied, $b ( { \pmb x } ) \geq 0$ is also guaranteed to be satisfied. Therefore, $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } , a ( t ) ) \ge 0$ will be the sufficient safety requirement. Similar to Eq. (3), we need to differentiate $\psi _ { 0 }$ multiple times. To ensure that the auxiliary variable $a ( t )$ is smooth and can be differentiated multiple times, we design its auxiliary dynamic system, which is influenced by the auxiliary input ν. Both u and ν will fully appear in the desired-order constraint,which will replace Eq. (10a) in QP to ensure the safety requirement.

Note that even if $b ( { \pmb x } )$ has a mixed relative degree in systems with multiple control inputs, ψ0 can be designed to ensure that all control inputs fully appear in a specific constraint. Moreover, ν is an unbounded decision variable incorporated into the $\mathrm { Q P }$ formulation to dynamically adjust $a ( t )$ based on the current state of the system and the Eq. (9) becomes

$$\min _ {u (t), \delta (t), \nu (t)} \int_ {0} ^ {T} (\| \boldsymbol {u} (t) \| ^ {2} + Q \delta^ {2} (t) + W (\nu (t) - a _ {w}) ^ {2}) d t, \tag {11}$$

where $W > 0 , a _ { w } \in \mathbb { R }$ are hyperparameters related to $\nu ( t )$ . The variation of $a ( t )$ provides additional flexibility for hyperparameter adaptation in each $\psi _ { i }$ and reduces the likelihood of infeasible solutions. In terms of compromised safety and feasibility due to inter-sampling effects and inappropriate hyperparameter selection, we propose a parametrization method to tune hyperparameters $( \mathrm { e } . \mathrm { g } . , Q _ { t _ { k } } , W _ { t _ { k } } , a _ { w , t _ { k } } , \alpha _ { i , t _ { k } } ( \cdot ) )$ such that the safety requirements and the control limitations are satisfied, $\mathrm { i . e . , } b ( \pmb { x } _ { [ 0 , T ] } ) \geq 0$ , and ${ \pmb u } _ { m i n } \le { \pmb u } _ { [ 0 , T ] } ^ { * } \le { \pmb u } _ { m a x }$ , which remains a challenging problem for state-of-the-art methods.
