of CPPSs heavily relies on cyber infrastructures that are prone to cyber threats, including all the digital and information technologies used to monitor, communicate, and control the physical assets [5]–[7]. To address the cyber threats, Sahu el al. [6] develop an automatic firewall configuration tool that can streamline the configuration of firewalls for utilities. To predict cyber risks, Rostami et al. [7] use a Bayesian attack graph to simulate attack paths and a Markov model to illustrate the consequences of attacks. Despite having distinct characteristics, ignoring the interconnectivity between cyber and physical layers could lead to failures in power system operation, especially under system contingencies. To enhance the resilience of CPPSs, another crucial perspective is to understand and learn the cooperation among grid cyber, physical, and cyber-physical components. For example, a tri-level optimization model is proposed in [8] to mitigate coordinated attacks on CPPSs, which involve physically short-circuiting transmission lines after compromising the communication network of protection relays. Besides, the development of redundant pathways and backup systems has proven efficacy in restoring operations during cyber-physical attacks [9].

Therefore, cooperative physical and cyber actions are essential to counteract malicious cyber-physical threats in CPPSs. In this paper, we investigate the cooperative optimization of gridedge resources that interact between system operators and endusers for resilient power system operation. The contributions of this paper include: 1) Development of a synergized cyberphysical optimization framework that can be used to cooperatively operate cyber and physical resources in CPPSs; 2) Design a cyber topology reconfiguration and physical power system restoration strategy; and 3) Provide bi-level optimal cyber and physical response actions to enhance grid resilience during synthetic cyber-physical events.

In the rest of this paper, Section II presents the formulation of a CPPS. Section III designs the resilient cyber and physical system operation strategy. Section IV provides numerical simulation results. Section V concludes the paper.
