Motivated by the above-stated issues, we put an effort into proposing a solution that collectively resolves them. We propose an algorithm that extracts the system’s ideal parameter values under the FE condition. These values are then fed to the adaptation laws driving the update of the controller gains estimate. Here, in our methodology, the adaptation laws are fed with the system parameter ideal values and not its estimate; hence, avoiding the appearance of the error term between the parameter estimates and ideal values in the $\dot { V }$ expression. This benefits achieving exponential stability, and the convergence rate depends only on the constant system parameters and user-designed gains. Therefore, the developed algorithm combined with the proposed methodology for the adaptation laws is beneficial three-fold, as described below.

(1) The proposed algorithm creates a memory term that supplies an identity matrix to the PEE under the FE condition; hence, closing both possibilities of highgain adaptation.   
(2) The tracking error and the extracted ideal system parameters drive the adaptation laws; achieving an exponentially stable closed-loop system under the FE condition.   
(3) The exponential decay rate is independent of the regressor vector’s excitation level under the FE condition. It implies that if the regressor vector satisfies the FE condition for a set of reference trajectories and initial conditions; we achieve an exponential decay rate with a fixed lower bound.

Next, we have put a brief section [Section 2] for the definitions, and notations, followed by the problem formulation [Section 3], and then the main results are discussed [Section 4]. The obtained results with the proposed combined adaptive control are validated using numerical simulation in Section 5, and Section 6 concludes the article.
