$$\underbrace {\dot {a} _ {1} (t)} _ {\dot {\pi} _ {1} (t)} = \underbrace {0} _ {F _ {1} (\pi_ {1} (t))} + \underbrace {1} _ {G _ {1} (\pi_ {1} (t))} \nu_ {1} (t). \tag {46}$$

The HOCBFs for $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 }$ are not needed in this case since $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 }$ is always positive. The AVCBFs are then defined as

$$\psi_ {0} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {\pi} _ {1}) := e ^ {- \frac {a _ {1}}{v}} b (\boldsymbol {x}), \tag {47}\psi_ {1} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {\pi} _ {1}) := \dot {\psi} _ {0} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {\pi} _ {1}) + k _ {1} \psi_ {0} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {\pi} _ {1}),$$

where $\alpha _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ is set as a linear function. By formulating constraints from AVCBFs (47), CLF (36) and acceleration (35), we can define the cost function for QP in the same form as (40). Other parameters are set as $v ( 0 ) = 2 0 m / s , a _ { 1 } ( 0 ) =$ $- 3 0 , c _ { 3 } = 1 2 0 , W _ { 1 } = 1 e ^ { 5 } ( \mathrm { i f } \ v ( t ) > v _ { p } ) , Q = 2 e ^ { 4 } ( \mathrm { i f } \ v ( t ) >$ $\begin{array} { r } { v _ { p } ) , W _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 } { 3 0 } ( \mathrm { i f } \ v ( t ) \leq v _ { p } ) , Q = \frac { 1 } { 1 5 0 } ( \mathrm { i f } \ v ( t ) \leq v _ { p } ) } \end{array}$ . Similar to Fig. 1b, we demonstrate that the adaptivity of AVCBF with a reduced relative degree improves the conservativeness of the control strategy by adjusting the hyperparameters $k _ { 1 }$ of the class κ function in Fig. 3. Even with varying braking capability $c _ { d } ( t )$ , the ego vehicle can always maintain a safe distance from the lead vehicle, as $b ( { \pmb x } )$ remains positive at all times. Moreover, adjusting ${ a } _ { 1 , w }$ enables even earlier braking to prevent infeasibility (see the red and orange curves). Note that due to the absence of one additional order of constraint, unlike Fig. 1c, the ego vehicle’s velocity v will ultimately remain lower than that of the lead vehicle $v _ { p }$ as shown by $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { u ( 3 0 ) } { M } = \frac { F _ { r } ( v ( 3 0 ) ) } { M } < \frac { F _ { r } ( v _ { p } ) } { M } } \end{array}$ M M < Fr(vp)M . Consequently, an increase in the M distance between the two vehicles $b ( { \pmb x } )$ can be observed over time. Meanwhile, the value of $k _ { 1 }$ exhibits a clear correlation with the ego vehicle’s braking time (i.e., the smaller the value of $k _ { 1 }$ , the earlier the vehicle brakes), and small nonsmoothness can be observed in the red and cyan curves. We conclude that extending AVCBF to higher-order constraints in this case is not necessary to ensure safety and feasibility. However, higher-order constraints can be beneficial for improving the smoothness of the controller.
