# 1. INTRODUCTION

The design of an adaptive controller for solving regulation and tracking problems is well-established for systems with uncertain parameters (Ioannou and Sun, 1996). The primary objective is to achieve zero tracking/regulation error by designing a control law driven by the estimation of uncertain parameters. Converging parameter estimates to their ideal values allows a unique control law design and provides robustness to the non-parametric bounded uncertainties. However, persistent excitation (PE) is the necessary and sufficient condition for parameter convergence (Narendra and Annaswamy, 2012). The PE condition relies on the future closed-loop signals; hence, it is an infeasible condition to satisfy in practice. The PE condition is translated to a class of reference trajectories (Boyd and Sastry, 1986); however, the reference trajectories depend on the desired task, and enriching the transient profile of the reference trajectories (Gallegos and Aguila-Camacho, 2024) may degrade the closed-loop system performance.

Several works have proposed a memory term (Ortega et al., 2020) in the gradient/least-squares-based adaptation law for estimating uncertain parameters. The memory term accumulates the past closed-loop signals and supplies a symmetric positive definite coefficient matrix 1 to parameter estimation error dynamics (PEE) under a finite excitation (FE) condition (Chowdhary et al., 2013), (Pan and Yu, 2018). The FE condition depends only on past closedloop signals that can be checked online, making it feasible. The coefficient matrix is symmetric positive definite, which may cause undesirable (5.3, (Ortega et al., 2020)) highgain adaptation in the following ways. First, the coefficient matrix contains closed-loop signals as its entries. The closed-loop signals vary with the reference trajectories and the initial conditions. The choice of adaptation gains for a set of reference trajectories and initial conditions may result in high-gain adaptation for another set, and it will surely happen if the regressor vector satisfies the PE condition. Second, choosing adaptation gains for fast parameter convergence of an individual parameter estimate may cause high-gain adaptation of another parameter estimate as the coefficient matrix is coupled.
