The coefficient of the control input $B _ { j }$ in (28) can be specifically designed to ensure that all components of the control input are fully represented, while also guaranteeing that no component of the control input is zero for any state. Therefore, the previously mentioned CBF constraint with mixed relative degree [16] or with input nullification [15] can both be handled. Since both Thm. 2 and Thm. 3 require ensuring $\psi _ { m _ { a } - 1 } ( Z ) > 0$ , this condition can be considered a criterion for guaranteeing feasibility and safety. The remaining question is how to design an algorithm that efficiently adjusts the hyperparameters related to AVCBF based on this criterion to ensure both safety and feasibility. This motivates the parametrization method introduced in the next subsection.

C. Optimal Control with AVCBFs: A Parametrization Method for Tuning Hyperparameters

Reconsider an optimal control problem from (9) as

$$\min _ {\boldsymbol {u}, \delta} \int_ {0} ^ {T} [ D (\| \boldsymbol {u} \|) + Q \delta^ {2} ] d t, \tag {29}$$

where ∥·∥ denotes the 2-norm of a vector, $D ( \cdot )$ is a strictly increasing function of its argument and $T \ > \ 0$ denotes the ending time. δ is the relaxed variable that makes state convergence a soft constraint, and its corresponding weight factor is Q. Since we need to introduce auxiliary inputs $v _ { i }$ to enhance the feasibility of optimization, we should reformulate the cost in (29) as

$$\min _ {\boldsymbol {u}, \boldsymbol {\nu}, \delta} \int_ {0} ^ {T} [ D (\| \boldsymbol {u} \|) + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {m} W _ {i} (\nu_ {i} - a _ {i, w}) ^ {2} + Q \delta^ {2} ] d t. \tag {30}$$

In (30), $W _ { i }$ is a positive scalar and $a _ { i , w } \in \mathbb { R }$ is the scalar to which we hope each auxiliary input νi converges. Both are chosen to tune the performance of the controller. We can formulate the CLFs, HOCBFs and AVCBFs introduced in Def. 5, Sec. IV-B and Def. 7 as constraints of the QP with cost function (30) to realize safety-critical control. Next we will show AVCBFs can enhance the feasibility of solving QP compared with classical HOCBFs in Def. 4 and PACBF [31].
