We selected the four controllers corresponding to the solid magenta curve in Fig. 4, and analyzed them in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 to provide a more detailed illustration of how AVCBF-2 and AVCBF-P ensure feasibility and safety. In Fig. 6 We see that due to the presence of tight control bounds, solving the QP with HOCBF is infeasible at $t = 1 . 2 s$ . When we keep the hyperparameters unchanged and replace HOCBF with AVCBF-1, solving the QP at $t = 1 . 2 s$ remains infeasible. This is because the safety-feasibility criterion $\psi _ { 1 } > 0$ is not satisfied (in Fig. 5b, the $\psi _ { 1 } ( \pmb { x } ( 1 . 2 ) )$ of AVCBF-1 is negative). In contrast, the controllers under AVCBF-2 and AVCBF-P remain within the control bounds without making the QP infeasible. From Fig. 5b, we can see that this is because the $\psi _ { 1 } ( { \pmb x } ( t ) )$ of both methods remains positive. From Fig. 5c and Fig. 5d, we can see that although AVCBF-P has one fewer auxiliary function compared to AVCBF-2, it starts iteratively updating $a _ { 1 , w } ( t )$ from $t = 1 . 2 - 0 . 1 N _ { c } = 0 . 4 s$ , within the time window [0.4s, 1.2s], ensuring that solving the QP at $t = 1 . 2 s$ and future time steps remains feasible. Fig. 5a shows that both AVCBF-2 and AVCBF-P guarantee safety over time. Moreover, AVCBF-P allows the vehicle to get extremely close to obstacles between 2s and 6s. We conclude that increasing the number of auxiliary functions or using the proposed parametrization method for AVCBFs can ensure both safety and feasibility. Additionally, the proposed parametrization method significantly reduces the conservatism of the control strategy.

6) Implementation with AVCBFs with Reduced Relative Degree: Define $b ( \pmb { x } ( t ) ) = ( x - x _ { o } ) ^ { 2 } + ( y - y _ { o } ) ^ { 2 } - r _ { o } ^ { 2 }$ , although the minimum relative degree m of $b ( { \pmb x } ( t ) )$ with respect to dynamics (48) is 2, based on Rem. 1, we can design auxiliary function as $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 } ( \pmb { x } , a _ { 1 } ( t ) ) = a _ { 1 } ( t ) + v ( t ) + \theta ( t ) \nonumber$ . Since the control input appears after differentiating $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 }$ once, the desired relative degree of the auxiliary function $m _ { a }$ is set to 1. We define the auxiliary dynamics the same as (46). The HOCBFs for $\mathcal { A } _ { 1 }$ are defined as
