• We propose Auxiliary-Variable Adaptive CBFs (AVCBFs), which can be applied to the design of safety constraints regardless of whether the constraints have any relative degree or mixed relative degrees.   
• We show that AVCBFs can improve the feasibility of the CBF method under tight and time-varying control bounds. The proposed AVCBFs maintain a structure analogous to existing CBF methods, avoiding the need for excessive additional constraints. Furthermore, AVCBFs preserve the adaptive properties of aCBFs [31], while ensuring nonovershooting control policies near the boundaries of safe sets.   
• We propose a novel parametrization method for AVCBFs that automatically and adaptively tunes their hyperparameters to ensure both safety and feasibility. This method is activated only when the safety-feasibility criterion is detected to be unsatisfied within a future horizon. By leveraging iterative hyperparameter tuning and safety-feasibility criterion evaluations, the parametrization method guarantees safety and feasibility even in scenarios where manually tuned AVCBF fails to maintain these properties.   
• We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods on adaptive cruise control (ACC) and obstacle avoidance problems with tight and time-varying control bounds, and compare it with existing CBF methods. The results show that the proposed approaches can generate more feasible, safer, and adaptive control solutions compared to existing methods, without requiring design of excessive additional constraints and complicated hyperparameter-tuning procedures.

This work is a significant extension of our conference paper [32], in which we introduced AVCBFs specifically for safety constraints with high relative degrees. In [32], the hyperparameters related to AVCBFs are manually tuned. In addition to developing a parametrization method for AVCBF to automatically tune its hyperparameters to ensure both safety and feasibility, this article also includes technical details that extend the design of AVCBFs for constraints with mixed relative degrees and more complex simulation results.
