# I. INTRODUCTION

Safety is the primary concern in the design and operation of autonomous systems. Many existing works enforce safety as constraints in optimal control problems using Barrier Functions (BF) and Control Barrier Functions (CBF). BFs are Lyapunov-like functions [1] whose use can be traced back to optimization problems [2]. They have been utilized to prove set invariance [3], [4] to control multi-robot systems [5], [6], manipulators [7], unmanned aerial vehicles [8], legged robots [9] and soft robots [10]. CBFs are extensions of BFs for control systems. It has been shown that stabilizing an affine control system to admissible states, while minimizing a quadratic cost subject to state and control constraints, can be mapped to a sequence of Quadratic Programs (QPs) [11] by unifying CBFs and Control Lyapunov Functions (CLFs) [12]. In its original form, this approach, which in this paper we will refer to as CBF-CLF, works only for safety constraints with relative degree one. Exponential CBFs [13] were introduced to accommodate higher relative degrees. A more general form of This work was supported in part by the NSF under grant IIS-2024606 at Boston University.

1S. Liu is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Boston University, Brookline, MA, 02215, USA. {liushuo}@bu.edu

2W. Xiao is with the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA weixy@mit.edu

3C. Belta is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of Computer Science, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA calin@umd.edu

exponential CBFs, called High-Order CBFs (HOCBFs), has been proposed in [14]. However, the aforementioned CBF-CLF-QP cannot always ensure the safety of an affine control system due to several unresolved challenges.
