There are several approaches that aim to enhance the feasibility of the CBF method while guaranteeing safety. One can formulate CBFs as constraints under a Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) framework, which allows the controller to predict future state information up to a horizon larger than one. This leads to a less aggressive control strategy [20]. However, the corresponding optimization is overall nonlinear and non-convex, which could be computationally expensive for nonlinear systems. A convex MPC with linearized, discretetime CBFs under an iterative approach was proposed in [21]– [23] to address the above challenges, but this comes at the price of losing safety guarantees. The works in [24]–[27] recently developed approaches in which a known backup set or backup policy is defined that can be used to extend the safe set to a larger viable set to enhance the feasible space of the system in a finite time horizon under input constraints. This backup approach has further been generalized to infinite time horizons [28] [29]. One limitation of these approaches is that they require prior knowledge of finding appropriate backup sets, policy or nominal control law, which may be difficult to be predefined. Another limitation is that they only focus on feasibility, which may introduce over-aggressive or over-conservative control strategies. Sufficient conditions have been proposed in [30] to guarantee the feasibility of the CBFbased QP, but they may be hard to find for general constrained control problems. All these approaches only consider timeinvariant control limitations.
