Definition 5 (CLF [12]). A continuously differentiable function $V : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } $ R is an exponentially stabilizing Control Lyapunov Function (CLF) for system (1) if there exist constants $c _ { 1 } > 0 , c _ { 2 } > 0 , c _ { 3 } > 0$ such that for $\forall \mathbf { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , c _ { 1 } \left. \mathbf { x } \right. ^ { 2 } \leq$ $V ( \pmb { x } ) \leq c _ { 2 } \left\| \pmb { x } \right\| ^ { 2 }$ ,

$$\inf _ {\boldsymbol {u} \in \mathcal {U}} \left[ L _ {f} V (\boldsymbol {x}) + L _ {g} V (\boldsymbol {x}) \boldsymbol {u} + c _ {3} V (\boldsymbol {x}) \right] \leq 0. \tag {6}$$

The existing works [13], [14] combine HOCBFs (5) for systems with high relative degree with quadratic costs to formulate safety-critical optimization problems. CLFs (6) can also be incorporated into optimization problems (see [30], [31]) if exponential convergence of certain states is desired. In these works, time is discretized into time intervals $[ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } )$ where $t _ { 0 } = 0 , t _ { N } = T , k \in \{ 0 , . . . , N - 1 \}$ , and an optimization problem with constraints given by HOCBFs and CLFs is solved in each time interval. Since the state value ${ \pmb x } ( t _ { k } )$ is fixed at the beginning of the interval, these constraints are linear in control, therefore each optimization problem is a QP. The optimal control $\boldsymbol { u } ^ { * } ( t _ { k } )$ obtained by solving each QP is applied at the beginning of the interval and held constant for the whole interval. During each interval, the state is updated using dynamics (1). Since the controller updates only occur at specific sampling instances $t _ { k }$ , the system evolves uncontrolled between two updates within the sampling interval $[ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } )$ . This uncontrolled behavior can lead to the inter-sampling effect in [17]. Another form of uncontrolled behavior arises when the coefficient of the control input in the CBF constraint is partially zero for all states (as seen when the CBF candidate has a mixed relative degree in systems with multiple control inputs [16]) or at certain states (input nullification discussed in [15]). These uncontrolled behaviors compromise safety.
