In [4], MSTA design techniques were generalized for fullmatrix gains synthesis. A new LMI-based design was proposed to handle convex bounded model uncertainties in the input matrix and exogenous disturbances with norm-bounded time derivative. Gains can then be designed based on cost weights related to transient and control effort, with an additional parameter for the disturbance bound.

The results of [4] were extended in [17] by incorporating a linear state-dependent term in the MSTA and addressing convex bounded parameter uncertainty in both the state and the input matrices. Additionally, the multivariable extension was not based on the Jacobian matrix but rather on an appropriate scalar function, which can be particularly important for systems with uncertain input matrices. This novel formulation appears to simplify the theoretical analysis. However, this approach requires the number of states to match the number of inputs, significantly limiting the class of linear systems that can be addressed.

In this paper, we build upon the findings of [17] by proposing a novel LMI-based generalized MSTA design for controlling more general linear MIMO plants with internal dynamics, under the assumption of convex bounded parameter uncertainty in all system matrices. The inclusion of internal dynamics significantly increases the complexity of the problem. To address this challenge, we decompose the system into two subsystems and introduce a novel non-differentiable piecewisecontinuous Lyapunov function that innovatively combines the Lyapunov functions of each subsystem whose stability conditions emerge from the determination of the one-sided directional derivative [18]. The control design achieves robust performance through the optimization of a guaranteed performance index, ensuring robust global stability. All problems are numerically handled by LMI solvers available in the literature. We develop a fault-tolerant MGSTA controller for a threedegree-of-freedom mechanical system, demonstrating the practical applicability and robustness of the proposed LMI-based approach.
