Note that mixed relative degree is a special case of minimum relative degree. A function with high-order relative degree still satisfies the condition that at least one component of u explicitly appears after the required number of differentiations. Thus, high-order relative degree can indeed be considered another special case of minimum relative degree, specifically when the differentiation needed to reveal u (for all components) is the smallest across all possible scenarios. Given a function $b : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R }$ with a minimum relative degree m for the system (1), and a time-varying vector $\mathbf { \boldsymbol { a } } ( t ) : = [ a _ { 1 } ( t ) , \dots , a _ { m _ { a } } ( t ) ] ^ { T } ,$ , we introduce a set of positive auxiliary functions $\mathcal { A } _ { i } ( \pmb { x } , a _ { i } ( t ) )$ for $i \in \{ 1 , . . . , m _ { a } \}$ , where $1 \ \leq \ m _ { a } \ \leq \ m$ , and $\textbf { \textit { x } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ represents the states in (1). These auxiliary functions will be placed in front of some functions in (3) to ensure that all components of u are revealed in $m _ { a } ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ function in (3). Similarly to the auxiliary variables in (16), these auxiliary functions are required to be positive.

Remark 1 (Auxiliary Functions with Reduced Relative Degree). We do not need to construct auxiliary functions up to the minimum relative degree m because the introduction of auxiliary functions $\mathcal { A } _ { i } ( \pmb { x } , a _ { i } ( t ) )$ ) for $i \in \{ 1 , \ldots , m _ { a } \}$ , where $1 \leq m _ { a } \leq \underline { { { m } } } ,$ is sufficient to reveal all components of u in the $m _ { a } ^ { t h }$ function in (3). By allowing $m _ { a }$ to be flexible and less than or equal to m, we reduce computational complexity and avoid introducing unnecessary auxiliary functions while still ensuring that the control inputs are explicitly captured within the dynamics.

To ensure each $\mathcal { A } _ { i } ( \pmb { x } , a _ { i } ( t ) ) > 0 , i \in \{ 1 , . . . , m _ { a } \}$ , we define auxiliary systems that contain auxiliary states $\pi _ { i } ( t )$ and inputs $\nu _ { i } ( t )$ , through which systems we can extend each $\mathcal { A } _ { i } ( \pmb { x } , a _ { i } ( t ) )$ to desired relative degree $m _ { a }$ , just like $b ( { \pmb x } )$ has minimum relative degree m with respect to the dynamics (1). Consider $m _ { a }$ auxiliary systems in the form

$$\dot {\boldsymbol {\pi}} _ {i} = F _ {i} (\boldsymbol {\pi} _ {i}) + G _ {i} (\boldsymbol {\pi} _ {i}) \nu_ {i}, i \in \{1,..., m _ {a} \}, \tag {18}$$
