Creating the memory term using dynamic regressor extension and mixing (DREM) (Aranovskiy et al., 2016), partially solves the above-stated issues. It supplies a positive definite diagonal coefficient matrix, therefore, fast individual parameter convergence is possible. However, the diagonal entries depend on the closed-loop signals. Thus, the first route of the high-gain adaptation discussed above is unresolved with the DREM method. Time-varying adaptation gains (Glushchenko and Lastochkin, 2022), (Patel and Maity, 2022) may serve the purpose but the gains may assume unwanted high values causing instability mechanisms. Further, in creating the memory term, the DREM method requires several filters proportional to the unknown system parameters, and the selection of the filters’ frequency is not systematic and is more involved.

The above-discussed methods to relax the PE condition to the FE condition are illustrated to solve regressor equations (Marino and Tomei, 2022), (Ortega et al., 2022), adaptive control with a known control effectiveness vector (Cho et al., 2017), and combined adaptive control with a known lower bound of the control effectiveness vector (Roy et al., 2017), (Gerasimov et al., 2018). In combined adaptive control, the adaptation laws for the controller gains estimate utilize the tracking error and the system parameter estimates (Duarte and Narendra, 1989). The appearance of the error term between the system parameter estimate and the ideal value in the V˙ expression 2 , restricts achieving exponential stable combined adaptive control; the closed-loop errors converge to the origin only exponentially fast. Further, robustness to bounded nonparametric uncertainties is complex to analyze for such design methods. To the best of the author’s knowledge, the design of exponential stable combined adaptive control with known signs of the control effectiveness vector is unavailable. It is not because of its obviousness but it can be attributed to the hindrance in achieving the desired results.
