# B. Cyber Network

Cyber (communication) network represents the communication topology among cyber nodes whose connectivity is controlled directly by cyber components, such as routers/firewalls. The cyber network is represented by a directed graph $\mathcal { G } ^ { \prime } \{ \mathcal { N } ^ { \prime } , \mathcal { E } ^ { \prime } \}$ , where $\mathcal { N } ^ { \prime } = \{ 1 , 2 , \dots , c \}$ denotes the set of cyber nodes and $\mathcal { E } ^ { \prime } \subset \mathcal { N } ^ { \prime } \times \mathcal { N } ^ { \prime }$ denotes the set of communication links between cyber nodes. Here, we use nodes and links to distinguish ‘buses’ and ‘lines’ in the physical power system. The cyber layer ensures connectivity among critical cyber nodes (e.g., critical cyber nodes can be defined by vulnerability score) while minimizing the costs of establishing such a communication network.

1) Cyber Objectives: The cyber objective minimizes the total cost of deploying cyber resources and activating communication links, defined by:

$$f _ {\text { cyber }} := \sum_ {(\hat {i}, \hat {j}) \in \mathcal {E} ^ {\prime}} c _ {\hat {i} \hat {j}} ^ {\prime} \cdot y _ {\hat {i} \hat {j}} + \sum_ {\hat {i} \in \mathcal {V} ^ {\prime}} c _ {\hat {i}} ^ {\prime} \cdot x _ {\hat {i}} \tag {6}$$

where $y _ { \hat { \imath } \hat { \jmath } } \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ denotes activation status of the communication link $\hat { \imath } \hat { \jmath }$ between node ˆı and node $\hat { \mathcal { I } } , c _ { \hat { \imath } \hat { \jmath } } ^ { \prime }$ denotes the cost of activating the communication link between nodes ˆı and ȷˆ, $x _ { \hat { \imath } } \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ denotes the presence of a cyber resource at node ˆı, and $c _ { \hat { \imath } } ^ { \prime }$ is the hardware/software cost of deploying a cyber resource at node ˆı.

2) Cyber Constraints: Inspired by the Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) [11], the cyber communication network configuration is framed as a flow-based topology optimization problem. The STP is designed to function only on a “tree-like” network topology, meaning a graph without loops. In the cyber graph, by assuming an amount of information flows out of a root node to decrease till it reaches the end nodes, the cyber constraints are enforced on flow balance, flow capacity, link activation, resource deployment, and root node flow, respectively.
