We use a gradient-ascent method as the parametrization method to find the optimal hyperparameters for AVCBFs such that the safety-feasibility criterion $( \psi _ { m _ { a } - 1 } ( Z ) > 0 )$ mentioned in Sec. IV-B is satisfied. There are multiple hyperparameters to consider, such as those related to HOCBFs (e.g., the class κ function hyperparameters in (20)), those associated with AVCBFs (e.g., the class κ function hyperparameters in (23)), as well as $W _ { i }$ and $a _ { i , w } .$ . However, not all of these hyperparameters necessarily need to be adjusted to satisfy both safety and feasibility. The hyperparameters of the class κ functions in (20) generally do not need to be adjusted, as each $A _ { i }$ is guaranteed to be positive if $\nu _ { i }$ is unbounded. The hyperparameters of the class κ functions in (23) also do not need to be adjusted, as they vary dynamically with timevarying $\frac { \dot { A } _ { i } } { A _ { i } }$ . In cost function (30), we can tune hyperparameters Wi and $a _ { i , w }$ to adjust the corresponding ratio $\frac { \dot { \mathcal { A } } _ { i } } { \mathcal { A } _ { i } }$ 4 to change the performance of the optimal controller. Tuning $a _ { i , w }$ defines the nominal or target value for $\nu _ { i }$ while tuning $W _ { i }$ controls how strongly deviations from $a _ { i , w }$ are penalized. In most cases, tuning $a _ { i , w }$ first is preferable, since it directly sets the nominal operating point. Then, $W _ { i }$ can be fine-tuned to balance constraint enforcement (e.g., we can determine whether to enforce the CLF constraint more strictly to guarantee state convergence or to prioritize minimizing energy with stronger enforcement). To reduce computational complexity, we only adjust the hyperparameter $a _ { i , w }$ in Alg. 1.
