We evaluate adaptivity to control strategy conservativeness by varying the hyperparameters $k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 } , l _ { 1 } , l _ { 2 }$ inside the class κ functions in (38),(39), along with $c _ { d } ( t )$ . For each case in Fig. 1b, the ego vehicle accelerates to the same velocity $( b ( { \pmb x } ( t ) )$ ) reaches the same value) before decelerating at different times. The orange and red curves show the earliest braking, while the green and blue curves brake later, and the magenta curve brakes latest. Different braking capabilities lead to varying maximum decelerations (denoted by arrows), after which the vehicle finally keeps a constant velocity the same as $v _ { p } ,$ maintaining the safe distance $l _ { p }$ for all $t \in [ 0 , 5 0 s ]$ . Comparing the magenta and orange curves, larger hyperparameters allow later braking and greater deceleration. However, if $c _ { d } ( t )$ is very small (e.g., the green curve), large hyperparameters cause QP infeasibility (e.g., infeasibility at 25.3s due to insufficient braking distance). Adjusting ${ a } _ { 1 , w }$ in cost function (40) enables faster braking (blue curve), demonstrating AVCBFs’ adaptability in managing control strategies.

4) Implementation with PACBFs: Similar to AVCBFs, we define $b ( { \pmb x } ( t ) ) = z ( t ) - l _ { p }$ for PACBFs. We use the same penalty function and auxiliary dynamics in [31] as ${ \pmb p } ( t ) =$ $( p _ { 1 } ( t ) , p _ { 2 } ( t ) )$ and

$$\dot {p _ {1}} (t) = \nu_ {1} (t), p _ {2} (t) = \nu_ {2} (t). \tag {41}$$

To make $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ converge to a small enough value, we define CLF constraint as

$$2 (p _ {1} (t) - p _ {1} ^ {*}) \nu_ {1} (t) + \rho (p _ {1} (t) - p _ {1} ^ {*}) ^ {2} \leq \delta_ {p} (t), \tag {42}$$

where $\rho = 1 0 , p _ { 1 } ^ { * } = 0 . 1 0 3 , \delta _ { p } ( t )$ is relaxed variable. We define HOCBF constraints for $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ as

$$- \nu_ {1} (t) + (3 - p _ {1} (t)) \geq 0, \nu_ {1} (t) + p _ {1} (t) \geq 0, \tag {43}$$

which confines $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ into [0, 3]. The PACBFs are then defined as

$$\psi_ {0} (\boldsymbol {x}) := b (\boldsymbol {x}),\psi_ {1} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {p}) := \dot {\psi} _ {0} (\boldsymbol {x}) + p _ {1} \psi_ {0} (\boldsymbol {x}) ^ {2}, \tag {44}\psi_ {2} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {p}, \boldsymbol {\nu}) := \dot {\psi} _ {1} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {p}, \nu_ {1}) + \nu_ {2} \psi_ {1} (\boldsymbol {x}, \boldsymbol {p})$$
