# III. PROBLEM FORMULATION AND APPROACH

Our goal is to generate a control strategy for system (1) such that it converges to a desired state, some measure of spent energy is minimized, safety is satisfied, and control limitations are observed.

Objective: We consider the cost

$$J (\boldsymbol {u} (t)) = \int_ {0} ^ {T} \| \boldsymbol {u} (t) \| ^ {2} d t + Q \| \boldsymbol {x} (T) - \boldsymbol {x} _ {e} \| ^ {2}, \tag {7}$$

where ∥·∥ denotes the 2-norm of a vector, and $T > 0$ denotes the ending time; $Q > 0$ denotes a weight factor and $\ b { x _ { e } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is a desired state, which is assumed to be an equilibrium for system (1). $Q \| \pmb { x } ( T ) - \pmb { x } _ { e } \| ^ { 2 }$ denotes state convergence.

Safety Requirement: System (1) should always satisfy one or more safety requirements of the form:

$$b (\boldsymbol {x}) \geq 0, \boldsymbol {x} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {n}, \forall t \in [ 0, T ], \tag {8}$$

where $b \ : \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \ \to \ \mathbb { R }$ is assumed to be a continuously differentiable equation.

Control Limitations: The controller u should always satisfy (2) for all $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ .

A control policy is feasible if all constraints derived from previously mentioned requirements are satisfied and mutually non-conflicting during period [0, T ]. In this paper, we consider the following problem:

Problem 1. Find a feasible control policy for system (1) such that cost (7) is minimized.

In [14], the authors defined a HOCBF to enforce (8). They also used a relaxed CLF to realize the state convergence in (7). Since the cost is quadratic in u, the Prob. 1 using CBF-CLF-QPs was formulated as:

$$\min _ {u (t), \delta (t)} \int_ {0} ^ {T} (\| \boldsymbol {u} (t) \| ^ {2} + Q \delta^ {2} (t)) d t. \tag {9}$$

subject to

$$L _ {f} ^ {m} b (\boldsymbol {x}) + L _ {g} L _ {f} ^ {m - 1} b (\boldsymbol {x}) \boldsymbol {u} + O (b (\boldsymbol {x})) + \alpha_ {m} (\psi_ {m - 1} (\boldsymbol {x})) \geq 0, \tag {10a}L _ {f} V (\boldsymbol {x}) + L _ {g} V (\boldsymbol {x}) \boldsymbol {u} + c _ {3} V (\boldsymbol {x}) \leq \delta (t), \tag {10b}\boldsymbol {u} _ {\text { min }} \leq \boldsymbol {u} \leq \boldsymbol {u} _ {\text { max }}, \tag {10c}$$
