# IV. NUMERICAL SIMULATION

In the physical layer, consider the day-ahead power dispatch problem consisting of $T = 1 2$ time steps with 2-hour intervals. The IEEE 14-bus test case is used as the test system, including 5 generators and loads connected to 11 buses (other than the slack bus and PV buses) [13], [14]. Bus 0 serves as the slack bus and maintains a normalized voltage magnitude of $V _ { 0 }$ . The upper and lower voltage magnitudes are set to be $\overline { { V } } = 1 . 0 6 V _ { \mathrm { 0 } }$ andents $\underline { { V } } = 0 . 9 4 V _ { 0 }$ , respectively. The generator’sare set based on [14]. In the $c _ { i , g } ^ { 2 } , c _ { i , g } ^ { 1 } , c _ { i , g } ^ { 0 }$ c1i,g , c0i,g cyber layer, we map all physical buses into the cyber layer to obtain a potential list of cyber nodes based on the physical network topology. Then, the communication network consists of a single control center and certain substations, where the routers at the substation are denoted as critical cyber nodes that can control the cyber and physical assets within the area [15]. A set of generator nodes {1, 2, 3, 6, 8} is initiated as critical cyber nodes that need to be connected. Node 1 is assumed to be the control center. All critical cyber nodes should be able to communicate with others. The cost coefficient for activating a cyber communication link can be referenced to the IEEE cost of Ethernet paths for the spanning tree [11]. We use solver IPOPT [16] to solve the optimization problem.

Assume a combined cyber-physical attack that happens at 12:00, i.e., at time instance 6 that breaks one day into two equal length of periods. The cyber resourcand needs to be isolated, and the generator $x _ { 6 }$ is attacked at bus 6 is $P _ { 6 , g } ^ { \mathrm { g e n } }$ assumed to be out of operation caused by a physical disruption. Fig. 2b shows the reconfiguration of a cyber communication network after isolating Node 6. A set of neighboring cyber nodes $\mathcal { M } _ { \tilde { 6 } } ~ = ~ \{ 1 1 , 1 2 , 1 3 \}$ are candidates for replacing the cyber resource $x _ { 6 }$ . Following Algorithm 1, the neighboring cyber Node 11 is selected with minimal costs to reroute the cyber network. Subsequently, Node 11 controls the physical resources of bus 6, such as controlling or starting the ESS at the cyber-physical attack. As can be seen, Generator 6 stops functioning after time slot 6 with no active power generation. In Fig. 4, the upper figure shows that the ESS at Bus 6 starts to
