Corollary 1 Assume that the conditions of Lemmas 1 and 2 are satisfied. There exists a nonempty residual set $\mathbb { X } \subset$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { r } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ with the following properties i) (0, 0) lies in its interior and ii) it is attained in finite time from any initial condition $( \zeta _ { 0 } , x _ { 0 } ) \not \in \mathbb { X }$ .

Proof: Since, by assumption, the matrix inequalities of Lemmas 1 and 2 are feasible, there exist scalars $\varepsilon _ { L \mathrm { ~ } } >$ 0 and $\varepsilon _ { N } > 0 .$ see [4] for more details, such that the Lyapunov functions $v ( \zeta )$ and $V ( x )$ satisfy

$$\dot {v} \leq - \varepsilon_ {L} v + \rho_ {L} (V - v) \tag {39}\dot {V} \leq - \varepsilon_ {N} \sqrt {V} + \rho_ {N} (v - V) \tag {40}$$

and, consequently, the one-sided derivative (38) becomes

$$
D _ {+} \nu \leq \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} - \varepsilon_ {L} \nu & , \nu = v > V \\ - \varepsilon_ {N} \sqrt {\nu} & , v <   V = \nu \\ \max \{- \varepsilon_ {L} \nu , - \varepsilon_ {N} \sqrt {\nu} \} & , \nu = v = V \end{array} \right. \tag {41}
$$

Defining $\nu = \nu _ { * } = ( \varepsilon _ { N } / \varepsilon _ { L } ) ^ { 2 } > 0$ , the value for which both functions $- \varepsilon _ { L } \nu$ and $- \varepsilon _ { N } \sqrt { \nu }$ are equal, taking into account the intervals where one is greater than the other, (41) simplifies to

$$
D _ {+} \nu \leq \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} - \varepsilon_ {L} \nu , & 0 \leq \nu <   \nu_ {*} \\ - \varepsilon_ {N} \sqrt {\nu}, & \nu_ {*} \leq \nu \end{array} \right. \tag {42}
$$

Now, defining the residual set X as the level set of the function ν corresponding to $\nu = \nu _ { * }$ , that is

$$\mathbb {X} = \left\{(\zeta , x): \nu (\zeta , x) \leq \nu_ {*} \right\} \tag {43}$$

then, by definition, one may conclude that it exhibits the properties i) and ii). Moreover, taking an arbitrary initial condition $( \zeta _ { 0 } , x _ { 0 } ) \notin \mathbb { X }$ , the integration of (42) from $t = 0$ to $t > 0$ proves that this set is attained in a finite time satisfying $T ( \nu _ { 0 } ) \leq ( 2 / \varepsilon _ { N } ) ( \sqrt { \nu _ { 0 } } - \sqrt { \nu _ { * } } )$ . The proof is concluded. ✷

This result is useful in many instances of interest. In principle, the Lyapunov function $\nu ( \zeta , x )$ given in (37) can be designed such that the level set X defined in (43) is small with respect to some metric. Another possibility is to determine the Lyapunov function such that a performance index of interest has a guaranteed minimum upper bound facing parameters and exogenous uncertainties. This last proposition, more realistic in our opinion, is addressed in the next section.
