# 1 Introduction

The super-twisting algorithm (STA) [11], [19] is a powerful second-order sliding mode control (SMC) algorithm that reduces chattering by hiding the discontinuous control of conventional SMC [20] behind an integrator. This ingenious approach allows for continuous control input, exact compensation of Lipschitz disturbances, and finitetime convergence. The STA has been a prominent subject of research in the SMC community, spurring numerous theoretical and applied studies. Its outreach has been remarkable, being applicable not only for control but also for achieving robust exact differentiators [9], [10] and finite-time observers [1], [3], even with unknown inputs.

In [13], a generalized super-twisting algorithm (GSTA) was introduced to also handle state-dependent perturbations, providing additional theoretical advances. In this paper, we consider uncertain multivariable linear systems. The extension of the scalar STA to the multivariable case (MSTA) follows the original idea introduced in [16] based on the unit vector switching function.

Several authors have studied various multivariable STA formulations. In [22], a multivariable extension of the scalar variable gain generalized STA from [5], was developed, exploiting key properties of the Jacobian matrix. Further extensions related to the Jacobian matrix are found in [12] and [14]. A challenging issue arises when the input matrix, say B, is not known, as assumed in [12], [16] and [22]. To address the case of unknown B, sufficient conditions were derived in [21] to ensure global finite-time stability when B is symmetric and positive definite. This was extended in [7], showing stability for small asymmetry. The MSTA’s sensitivity to changes in the input matrix and the challenge of selecting gains were highlighted. A generalized MSTA was proposed in [14] for systems with time-varying and state-dependent input matrices and disturbances, requiring a positive definite symmetric part of B.

Only scalar gains were considered in [7], [14], [21]. Selecting full matrix gains for the MSTA is challenging. This problem was addressed in [15] for systems with time and state-varying uncertain input matrices, establishing sufficient conditions for stability with full-matrix control gains using a smooth Lyapunov function. However, no systematic method for computing these gains was provided.
