$$\psi_ {m i n} = \min \left[ \psi_ {m _ {a} - 1} (\mathbf {Z} (t _ {k})), \dots , \psi_ {m _ {a} - 1} (\mathbf {Z} (t _ {f})) \right]. \tag {32}$$

However, this operator is nonsmooth, which may lead to unstable updates in gradient-based optimization. Alternatively, we can approximate the min-operator using a smooth softminimum approximation in [15], [34]. While this approximation ensures differentiability, the soft-minimum approximation is highly sensitive to variations in $\psi _ { m _ { a } - 1 } ,$ , potentially leading to overly aggressive updates in hyperparameter $a _ { i , w } ( t _ { l } )$ . This could result in large fluctuations, causing the gradient-based optimization to overfit to local variations in $\psi _ { m _ { a } - 1 }$ . Meanwhile, the soft-minimum approximation does not yield the exact minimum value, which may result in an underestimation of the minimum and lead to overly conservative hyperparameter updates. In this paper, we choose to use the min-operator instead.

Remark 4 (Limitation of Approaches with Auxiliary Inputs). Ensuring the satisfaction of the $i ^ { t h }$ order AVCBF constraint as shown in (24) when $i \in \{ 1 , \ldots , m _ { a } - 1 \}$ , i.e., $\psi _ { i } ( Z ) \geq 0$ will guarantee $\psi _ { i - 1 } ( Z ) ~ \ge ~ 0$ based on the proof of Thm. 2, which theoretically outperforms PACBF. However, both approaches can not ensure satisfying $\psi _ { m _ { a } } ( z ) \geq 0$ will guarantee $\psi _ { m _ { a } - 1 } ( Z ) \geq 0$ since the growth of νi is unbounded. Therefore in Thm. $2 , \ Z \in \mathcal { C } _ { m _ { a } - 1 }$ for all $t \geq 0$ also needs to be satisfied to guarantee the forward invariance of the intersection of sets.
