where $\nu _ { 1 } ( t ) = { \dot { p } } _ { 1 } ( t ) , \nu _ { 2 } ( t ) = p _ { 2 } ( t ) , p _ { 1 } ( t ) \geq 0 , { p } _ { 2 } ( t ) \geq 0 , \nu =$ $( \nu _ { 1 } ( t ) , \nu _ { 2 } ( \acute { t } ) ) .
\ \bar { p } _ { 1 } ( \acute { t } ) , p _ { 2 } ( \acute { t } )$ are time-varying penalty variables, which alleviate the conservativeness of the control strategy and $\nu _ { 1 } ( t ) , \nu _ { 2 } ( t )$ are auxiliary inputs, which relax the constraints for $u ( t )$ in $\dot { \psi } _ { 2 } ( { \pmb x } , p _ { 1 } , { \pmb \nu } ) \geq 0$ and (13).
However, in practice, we need to define several additional constraints to make PACBF valid as shown in Eqs.
(24)-(27) in [31].
First, we need to define HOCBFs $( b _ { 1 } ( { \dot { p } } _ { 1 } ) = p _ { 1 } ( t ) , b _ { 2 } ( { \dot { p } } _ { 2 } ) { \dot { = } } p _ { 2 } ( t ) )$ based on Def.
4 to ensure $p _ { 1 } ( t ) \geq 0 , \bar { p _ { 2 } } ( t ) \geq 0$ .
Next we need to define HOCBF $( b _ { 3 } ( p _ { 1 } ) \^ { \cdot } = { \dot { p } } _ { 1 , m a x } \^ { \cdot } - { \dot { p } } _ { 1 } ( t ) )$ to confine the value of $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ in the range $[ 0 , { p } _ { 1 , m a x } ]$ .
We also need to define CLF $( V \dot { ( } p _ { 1 } ) = ( p _ { 1 } ( t ) \dot { - } \dot { p _ { 1 } ^ { * } } ) ^ { 2 } )$ based on Def.
5 to keep $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ close to a small value $p _ { 1 } ^ { * }$ .
In fact, the strict monotonicity of a class κ function ensures that the control feedback intensity increases as the function’s input variable increases.
This property allows the control strategy to vary smoothly without abrupt change, thereby reducing the risk of violating control constraints within inter-sampling intervals.
Consequently, incorporating a class κ function in the definition of a CBF enhances control safety.
$b _ { 3 } ( p _ { 1 } ) , V ( p _ { 1 } )$ are necessary since the function $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } , p _ { 1 } ) : \dot { = }$ $p _ { 1 } ( t ) k _ { 1 } \psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } )$ in first constraint in (15) is not a class κ function with respect to $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } )$ .
This is because $p _ { 1 } ( t ) k _ { 1 } \psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } )$ is not guaranteed to strictly increase with respect to $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } )$ due to the time-varying nature of $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ , which is against Thm.
1, therefore $\psi _ { 1 } \bar { ( } x , \bar { p } _ { 1 } ) \ge 0$ in (15) may not guarantee $\psi _ { 0 } ( { \pmb x } ) \geq 0$ , especially under inter-sampling effect.
This illustrates why we have to limit the growth of $p _ { 1 } ( t )$ by defining $b _ { 3 } ( p _ { 1 } ) , V \bar { ( } p _ { 1 } )$ .
However, the way to choose appropriate values for $p _ { 1 , m a x } , p _ { 1 } ^ { * }$ is not straightforward.
