Moreover, we analyze as a subsetting of our model a multi-asset variant of the model by Obizhaeva & Wang [46] (see Section 4.3, Section C.1, and Section C.2). In the literature, there are further multi-asset models that can be seen as generalizing Obizhaeva & Wang [46] to multiple assets. For instance, optimal trade execution in such kinds of models has been investigated in Tsoukalas et al. [54], Alfonsi et al. [8], and Abi Jaber et al. [1]. Note that, different from our set-up, Tsoukalas et al. [54] consider a discretetime framework and describe the transient price impact and the resilience by diagonal matrices. Cross-impact in their model is introduced via the permanent price impact and correlations in the fundamental prices, which affect the model via risk aversion.

Alfonsi et al. [8] analyze price manipulation and optimal trade execution in a multiasset propagator model with deterministic decay kernels. Whereas Alfonsi et al. [8] restrict their study to decay kernels of convolution type (and thus constant price impact), Abi Jaber et al. [1] allow for more general, yet still deterministic, decay kernels. Crossimpact in [1] is implemented via the decay kernel, the instantaneous price impact matrix, and correlations in the semimartingale fundamental prices. The authors study multiasset portfolio choice and in this framework consider optimal liquidation by penalizing large terminal inventories (see [1, Remark 2.10]), but do not require strict liquidation, in contrast to Tsoukalas et al. [54], Alfonsi et al. [8], and our work.

Note that all of the works Tsoukalas et al. [54], Alfonsi et al. [8], and Abi Jaber et al. [1] model liquidity and cross-impact effects by deterministic quantities within nonlinear models, whereas we allow for cross-impact from stochastic resilience and stochastic price impact in a linear-quadratic framework. Moreover, we incorporate stochastic terminal and running targets in our optimal trade execution problem.
