# I. INTRODUCTION

S YSTEM identification is an essential component in theapplications of control systems involving unknown or partially known dynamics. For a linear time-invariant (LTI) system, the system matrices are commonly identified using a least-squares optimization approach, which relies on control and state data snapshots from the dynamical system. It is well-understood that the quality of the system matrix estimates improves/degrades with an increase/decrease in the amount of data, as expected [1]. On the other hand, it is not clear how the quality of the data affects the estimation process, especially when the data undergo a quantization process. Furthermore, the effect of identification error due to data quality on the controller performance is also relatively unexplored.

Existing research on data-driven system identification and control generally presumes that sufficient computational resources are available to implement identification and control algorithms capable of handling extensive datasets collected from dynamical system snapshots. However, applying these data-intensive algorithms to resource-limited systems, such as low-powered, lightweight robotic applications [2], [3], may require quantization to meet hardware and other resource constraints. In fact, quantization naturally arises under communication and computation constraints, making it widely adopted

S. Ataei is supported by OSU COE Strategic Research Initiative 2024 seed grant.   
S. Ataei is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, 43210, USA (e-mail: ataei.3@osu.edu).   
D. Maity is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and an affiliated faculty of the North Carolina Battery Complexity, Autonomous Vehicle, and Electrification Research Center (BATT CAVE), University of North Carolina at Charlotte, NC, 28223, USA (e-mail: dmaity@charlotte.edu).   
D. Goswami is with the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, 43210, USA (e-mail: goswami.78@osu.edu).

in networked control systems, multi-agent systems, and cyberphysical systems. Quantization can have severe consequences on control systems, to the extent that a stabilizable system becomes destabilized if the quantization word-length falls below a certain threshold [4].
