where $\beta ( \cdot )$ is a class-K function. By integrating the deadlock indicator function into the CBF constraint in Eq. (18), it is straightforward that when the agents are far away from each other $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \zeta _ { i } ( R _ { i } ) \to 0 )$ , the constraint would directly hold. In this case, compared to the constraints in [14] (i.e., $\dot { h } _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } ( \mathbf { x } , \omega _ { i } , \mathbf { u } _ { i } ) + \beta ( h _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } ( \mathbf { x } ) , \mathbf { Q } _ { i } ) \geq 0 )$ , the proposed constraints in Eq. (18) remain inactive in a dynamic environment unless the agents are in close proximity. This allows agents to autonomously detect deadlock and respond accordingly.

Theorem 4. Consider the multi-agent system with the agent’s dynamics given by Eq. (1). Assume we have the task related $C L F V ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } )$ , the extended $C L F V _ { q } ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } , \mathbf { Q } _ { i } )$ given by Eq. (11), the CBF $h _ { i j } ( \mathbf { x } )$ given by Eq. (3), and CBF $\dot { h _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } } ( \mathbf { \bar { x } } , \mathbf { Q } _ { i } )$ given by Eq. (18). Then for any initial condition that $\mathcal { D } _ { i j } \ \ne \ 0$ , the solution of the following $Q P$ renders deadlock-free trajectories.

$$\min _ {(\mathbf {u} _ {i}, \omega_ {i}, \delta_ {i}) \in \mathbb {R} ^ {m} \times \mathbb {R} ^ {\frac {d}{2} (d - 1)} \times \mathbb {R}} \| \mathbf {u} _ {i} \| ^ {2} + q \| \omega_ {i} \| ^ {2} + p \delta_ {i} ^ {2} \tag {20}\text { s.t. } (1 - \zeta_ {i} (R _ {i})) (\dot {V} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \mathbf {u} _ {i}) + \gamma (V (\mathbf {x} _ {i})))+ \zeta_ {i} (R _ {i}) (\dot {V} _ {q} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \omega_ {i}, \mathbf {u} _ {i}) + \gamma (V _ {q} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i}))) \leq \delta_ {i} \tag {19a}\dot {h} _ {i j} (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {u} _ {i}) + W _ {i} \alpha (h _ {i j} (\mathbf {x})) \geq 0, \forall j \neq i \tag {19b}\zeta_ {i} (R _ {i}) (\dot {h} _ {\mathcal {D} _ {i j}} (\mathbf {x}, \omega_ {i}, \mathbf {u} _ {i}) + \beta (h _ {\mathcal {D} _ {i j}} (\mathbf {x}))) \geq 0, \forall j \neq i \tag {19c}$$

where $p , q > 0 \in \mathbb { R }$ are user-defined constants.

Proof. Case 1: when $\zeta _ { i } ( R _ { i } ) \to 0$ , the framework will be a decentralized CLF-CBF in Eq. (6). Because the agents are far away from each other, the CBF constraint in Eq. (6) is inactive. Consequently, no boundary equilibria exist, and therefore, deadlock is avoided.
