Remark A.2. Note that there are observations similar to Example A.1 in the literature on price impact models. For example, Schneider & Lillo show in [50, Lemma 3.9] that in their multivariate transient impact model with linear price impact function, symmetry of the price impact is a necessary condition for the absence of dynamic arbitrage. Moreover, if in the non-linear multivariate transient impact model of Hey et al. [33] we choose $L$ to be the identity matrix and h to be the identity function (linear impact), then [33, Lemma 5.2] yields that to avoid price manipulation their deterministic invertible matrix Λ, which corresponds to our price impact $\gamma ,$ needs to be symmetric. Huberman & Stanzl, for example, illustrate in [38, Section 5] that asymmetric price impact in their multivariate (non-transient) price impact setting can lead to price manipulation and they show that it is necessary and sufficient for the absence of price manipulation in their model that their price impact function is linear and represented by a symmetric positive semidefinite matrix. Alfonsi et al., for instance, derive in [8] that their decay kernel, which incorporates price impact and resilience in their multi-asset model, should be, among others, symmetric positive semidefinite to guarantee desirable properties of the model (see [8, Section 4]). To summarize, the assumption that the price impact (in the sense of the respective model) is symmetric is a usual one in the literature, and it is also rather common to make a definiteness assumption. In our model we consider a stochastically evolving price impact $\gamma$ and we further specify its dynamics. Our definition of $\gamma$ implies symmetry and positive definiteness of $\gamma ;$ for details we refer to Section 2.2, and to Remark 2.1 in particular.

In the next example we illustrate how in our model the resilience affects the price deviation.

Example A.3. Let $n = 2 , t _ { 1 } \in ( 0 , T ) , x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , d = 0 \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , an d

$$
\rho = \left( \begin{array}{c c} \rho_ {1} & \rho_ {3} \\ \rho_ {3} & \rho_ {1} \end{array} \right)
$$
