Building on Lˆe’s stochastic sewing lemma [21] a meaning to uncontrolled rSDEs with bounded coefficients was first given in [14]; see [15] for a review of related applications of rSDEs. Their result has recently been extended to a class of linear but deterministic (hence uncontrollable) coefficients in [7]. We establish the existence and uniqueness of solutions to (controlled) rSDEs with unbounded, random coefficients. Motivated by the analysis of linear-quadratic (LQ) problems our key assumption is that rough driver ˆσ is affine in the state variable; all other coefficients may be non-linear and stochastic.

The goal is then to minimize the cost functional

$$J ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}} (u; t, x) = \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {t} ^ {T} h (s, X _ {s} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}, u}, u _ {s}) d s + g (X _ {T} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}, u}) \Big | \mathcal {F} _ {t} ^ {W} \right] \tag {1.9}$$

over a set of non-anticipative controls A (assumptions of $( h , g )$ are given in Assumption 4.1). The running and terminal cost function may again be unbounded. The corresponding value function is denoted

$$\bar {v} (\boldsymbol {\eta}, t, x) := \operatorname{essinf} _ {u \in \mathcal {A}} J ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}} (u; t, x).$$

Having shown that the state dynamics is well defined, we apply the Doss-Sussmann-type transformation

$$\phi_ {s} (x) = x + \int_ {t} ^ {s} \hat {\sigma} _ {r} (\phi_ {r} (x)) d \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {r} \tag {1.10}$$

to reduce the rough stochastic control problem to a standard control problem for which necessary and sufficient maximum principles are readily available. Undoing the transformation allows us to obtain the desired SMPs for rough control problems, the second main contribution of this paper.

Our transformed control problem can be viewed as a version of the wider sense control problem in [6]. Since our existence results for rough SDEs with affine driver are required to prove that the transformation (1.10) is well defined, we first (must) give meaning to the state dynamics before we can introduce our notion of the wider sense control problem.

1.3. From rough stochastic to anticipating control problems. Having solved the rough control problem, which is interesting in its own right, we return to the original pathwise stochastic control problem.
