# III. EFFECTS OF DITHER QUANTIZATION ON $( \hat { A } , \hat { B } )$

In this work, we focus particularly on the dither quantization (DQ) scheme for two primary reasons: (1) Analytical tractability and (2) Superior performance of dither quantization compared to its non-dithered counterpart [14] under a carefully chosen dithering noise. In the DQ scheme, a noise is added to the signal prior to quantization, and then the same noise is subtracted from the decoded quantized signal. More precisely, let Q be a quantizer with range $[ x _ { \mathrm { m i n } } , x _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ] \subseteq \mathbb { R }$ and resolution such that for any $x \in \mathbb { R }$

$$
Q (x) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} x _ {\min} + \frac {\epsilon}{2} + \epsilon \left\lfloor \frac {x - x _ {\min}}{\epsilon} \right\rfloor , & x \in [ x _ {\min}, x _ {\max} ], \\ x _ {\min} + \frac {\epsilon}{2}, & x <   x _ {\min}, \\ x _ {\min} + \frac {\epsilon}{2} + \epsilon \left\lfloor \frac {x _ {\max} - x _ {\min}}{\epsilon} \right\rfloor & x > x _ {\max}. \end{array} \right.
$$

Quantizer $\boldsymbol { Q }$ requires $b = \lceil \log _ { 2 } \frac { x _ { \mathrm { m a x } } - x _ { \mathrm { m i n } } } { \epsilon } \rceil$ bits to represent its ϵquantized output. Under a DQ scheme, the quantized version

of x is given as

$$\tilde {x} = Q (x + w) - w,$$

where w is the dithering noise. Consequently, the quantization error is defined as $e ( x ) = x - { \tilde { x } } = ( x + w ) - Q ( x + w )$ .

Notice that, both ˜x and e are now random variables due to w, even though the original signal x may not be. The primary characteristic of DQ facilitating both a tractable analysis in this letter and its superior performance compared to alternative quantization methods [14] is the statistical independence of the quantization error e(x) from the input signal x, achievable by selecting a suitable noise distribution. While many such noise distributions exist (c.f., [15]), a uniform distribution $w \sim \mathcal { U } ( [ - \frac { \Delta } { 2 } , \frac { \Delta } { 2 } ] )$ is one of the most popular one. We refer the ,readers to [7], [15] for the historical context on DQ and [10] for a detailed discussion on DQ in system identification context.

The main result of this section is summarized in the following theorem.

Theorem 1 (large-data regime): Suppose $\quad T \quad  \quad \infty$ and $\mathrm { l i m } _ { T  \infty } \frac { \Psi \Psi ^ { \top } } { T }$ limT→∞ is finite and positive definite, then
