Other methods analyze the deadlock conditions by utilizing the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions for the multi-agent system. The work in [5], [12] characterize the deadlock as a force equilibrium and introduce a Proportional-Derivative (PD) control law as a mechanism for deadlock resolution. However, it is noteworthy that the theoretical validity of this approach is confined to scenarios involving no more than three agents. Using the similar idea of force equilibrium, in [13] an infinite-horizon model predictive control with deadlock resolution is proposed to prevent deadlocks before they occur. Additionally, [14] summarizes deadlock conditions with detailed proof of the equilibrium points’ existence and stability, and subsequently proposes a formal framework to resolve the deadlock. [15] provides a new representation for the free space where deadlock-prone areas are blocked off by analyzing the KKT conditions. However, the purpose of avoiding necessary conditions to preclude undesired deadlock regardless of when that may occur could dominate the robots’ behaviors from the starting stage, and thus unnecessarily disturb their original task execution. [16] extended this method by integrating an auxiliary control effort into a novel Tracking-CBF-QP framework, which aids in avoiding deadlocks and improves trajectory tracking performance. Nevertheless, it remains challenging for individual agents to determine when deadlock may happen and when to interfere in a coordinated manner for a proper trade-off between deadlock avoidance and original task execution.
