# A. Active Distribution System Segmentation

In this study, the distribution system is represented as a graph with two sets of nodes, $\mathcal { M } ~ = ~ ( \Pi ^ { P V - B } , \Pi ^ { L } )$ for dynamic resources and load buses (see Fig. 1 (a),) ΠP V −B $\mathrm { F i g . ~ 1 ~ } ( \mathrm { a } ) , \big | \mathrm { I } ^ { \mathit { P V } - \mathit { B } }$ represents the set of all resource buses. Here, we consider a system consisting exclusively of PV and BESS hybrid resources (referred to as PV-B buses). However, altering the type of PEI source is expected to result in only minor modifications to the proposed approach.

All other buses $\mathrm { \dot { I I } } ^ { L }$ are considered as non-dynamic load buses. The system’s structure which represents graph edges is represented via the Z where $Z _ { i j } = R _ { i j } \dot { + } j X _ { i j }$ represents the impedance between bus i and $j .$ To facilitate distributed monitoring of the system, we implement the system segmentation technique outlined in [13]. This approach employs auxiliary buses to partition the system into smaller segments, $\mathcal { M } _ { i } ,$ as illustrated in Fig. 1(b). Each segment $\mathcal { M } _ { i } \stackrel {  } { = } ( \Pi _ { i } ^ { P V - B } , \bar { \Pi } _ { i } ^ { L } )$ ) contains source and resource buses where $\Pi _ { i } ^ { L } \cap \dot { \Pi } _ { j } ^ { L } = \varnothing$ for all different segments $i \neq j , \mathcal { M } _ { i }$ includes only a single PV-B bus defined by the singleton $\Pi _ { i } ^ { P V - B }$ . The structure of each segment is presented via $\mathbf { Z } _ { i } .$ Load buses are assigned to these segments based on criteria such as geographical proximity. Note that, assigning a load bus to a particular $\mathbf { \mathcal { M } } _ { i }$ does not mean its demand will be exclusively supported by that segment; rather, indicates that the bus will be monitored by the segment’s SHS model.
