# I. INTRODUCTION

A ERIAL cooperative payload transportation using multipleUAVs is a growing field with significant potential in UAVs is a growing field with significant potential in various applications [1], such as disaster relief scenarios, construction and industrial operations, and agriculture [1]–[4]. Robust adaptive estimators and control techniques for UAVs addressing uncertainties, ensuring synchronization, and rejecting disturbances are in high demand [1], [5]. Researchers have investigated different methods for grasping and transporting payloads cooperatively, such as suspended payloads [6] and aerial grasping manipulators [7], [8]. For suspended payloads, researchers in [6], developed a two quadrotors system to transport a beam-shaped payload. The quadrotors and the payload were considered as a single system and modeled using virtual structure approach. On the other hand, in [7] a leader-follower setting was implemented for cooperative transportation of payloads by a team of aerial manipulators. In the leaderfollower paradigm, the leader is preprogrammed to navigate through a predefined path, while all other followers attempt to maintain their relative pose with respect to the leader. In [8], a cooperative transportation system using multiple aerial manipulators was developed. An adaptive controller and an online estimation method were proposed to estimate the mass of an unknown payload and control the aerial manipulation system based on estimated parameters.

This work was supported in part by the National Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), under the grants RGPIN-2022-04937. H. Naser, H. A. Hashim, and M. Ahmadi are with the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, K1S-5B6, Canada (e-mail: hhashim@carleton.ca).
