Furthermore, Ma et al. [44] set up a price impact model in the spirit of Almgren & Chriss [10] for trading in multiple assets that incorporates stochastic permanent and instantaneous price impact via a finite-state Markov process while omitting resilience. The authors solve an optimal trade execution problem by analyzing coupled Riccati differential equations.

Moreover, Muhle-Karbe & Tracy [45] analyze price manipulation and optimization of the expected profits and losses in a linear stochastic liquidity model with external order flow. The resilience is a constant matrix, whereas the price impact is a matrixvalued stochastic process. The authors show that such a model arises as the scaling limit of a discrete-time cross-impact model with deterministic concave price impact and semimartingale order flow.

The objective of the present paper is to investigate optimal trade execution in a multiasset model where both cross-impact and resilience vary stochastically. To achieve this, we extend the model of Ackermann et al. [4] (except for the fact that we set η = 0 in the notation of [4]) to a multi-asset setting.

To formalize the model we consider a time horizon $T \in ( 0 , \infty )$ , a number of assets $n \in \mathbb N$ , and a filtered probability space $( \Omega , { \mathcal { F } } _ { T } , ( { \mathcal { F } } _ { t } ) _ { t \in [ 0 , T ] } , P )$ that satisfies the usual conditions. We consider an agent (typically a large institutional trader) whose trading activities are described by an $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ -valued stochastic process $X$ , which tracks the positions in the n assets. More specifically, $X _ { j } ( s )$ is the position in the j-th asset at the time $s \in [ 0 , T ] \ ( X _ { j } ( s ) \ > \ 0$ means a long position of $X _ { j } ( s )$ shares and $X _ { j } ( s ) \ < \ 0 \ \mathrm { ~ a ~ }$ short position of $- X _ { j } ( s )$ shares in the j-th asset at time $s \in [ 0 , T ] )$ . Immediately prior to the initial time 0 the agent has the initial position $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . At the terminal time $T$ the agent needs to reach a certain target position which is given by an $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } .$ -valued, $\mathcal { F } _ { T }$ -measurable random variable $\xi .$ . These two requirements are reflected by the boundary conditions $X ( 0 - ) = x$ and $X ( T ) = \xi$ .
