# 1. Introduction

A standard stochastic control problem comprises a stochastic differential equation (SDE) of the form

$$d X _ {s} = b (s, X _ {s}, u _ {s}) d s + \sigma (s, X _ {s}, u _ {s}) d W _ {s}, \quad 0 \leq t \leq s \leq T \tag {1.1}$$

with an initial condition $X _ { t } = x .$ where W is a multi-dimensional Brownian motion and $u = ( u _ { t } ) _ { t \in [ 0 , T ] }$ is a progressively measurable control, and the objective is to minimize an expected cost functional of the form

$$J (u; t, x) = \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {t} ^ {T} h (s, X _ {s}, u _ {s}) d s + g (X _ {T}) \Big | \mathcal {F} _ {t} ^ {W} \right] \tag {1.2}$$

over a set of admissible controls. Textbook control problems of the above form have been extended in numerous directions, including mean-field and singular control problems, which are by now also well understood.

A less well-understood extension is pathwise stochastic control. Pathwise stochastic control models arise naturally when a decision maker can condition her choice on the realization of some exogenous noise process. Examples include stochastic volatility and utility optimization models where investors can condition their decisions on additional information such as the realization of some volatility process [3, 6] as well as deep learning networks [4, 17] in infinite layer limits, where the future of processes resulting from the initialization of deep neural network weights is fully available.

The difference between classical control problems including models with partial observations and pathwise stochastic control problems boils down to measurability assumptions on admissible controls. Depending on the specific application, different measurability conditions may arise that require different mathematical settings, depending on whether controls may or may not - explicitly - depend on the future of a given noise process.

1.1. Pathwise stochastic control problems. The interest in pathwise stochastic and anticipative control goes back at least to Davis and Burstein [8] who considered a stochastic optimal control problem with anticipative controls as a family of deterministic control problems parametrized by the paths of the driving Wiener process and a Lagrange multiplier that is adapted to future increments of the Wiener process. Similar Lagrange multipliers were used to a model of optimal stopping in the follow-up work [10].
