# 2.3. The finite-variation stochastic control problem

We first introduce the finite-variation strategies. To this end we first associate a state process to potential finite-variation strategies. For an $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } .$ -valued càdlàg finite-variation process $X \ = \ ( X ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ with $X ( 0 - ) ~ = ~ x$ we define the $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ -valued càdlàg finitevariation process $D ^ { X } = \overbar { ( D ^ { X } ( s ) ) } _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ by (1).

Remark 2.3. Suppose that $X = ( X ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ is an $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ -valued càdlàg finite-variation process with $X ( 0 - ) ~ = ~ x$ . It then holds that there exists a unique solution $\begin{array} { r l } { D ^ { X } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $( D ^ { X } ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ of (1), and it is given by

$$D ^ {X} (r) = \nu^ {- 1} (r) \left(d + \int_ {[ 0, r ]} \nu (s) \gamma (s) d X (s)\right), \quad r \in [ 0, T ]$$

(cf. (4), (5), and, for example, [39], see also [25, Theorem 1.2]).

The terminal target $\xi$ is an $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ -valued, $\mathcal { F } _ { T }$ -measurable random variable satisfying

$$E \left[ \| \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (T) \xi \| _ {F} ^ {2} \right] < \infty . \tag {15}$$

We denote by $\mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ the set of all adapted càdlàg finite-variation processes $X = ( X ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ that satisfy $X ( 0 - ) = x , X ( T ) = \xi$ , and the integrability conditions

$$E \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} \left\| \gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (s) D ^ {X} (s) \right\| _ {F} ^ {2} d s \right] < \infty , \tag {16}\sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} E \left[ \left(\int_ {0} ^ {T} \left| \left(\gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (s) D ^ {X} (s)\right) ^ {\top} O ^ {\top} \boldsymbol {\sigma} _ {k} (s) O \gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (s) D ^ {X} (s) \right| ^ {2} d s\right) ^ {\frac {1}{2}} \right] < \infty . \tag {17}$$

Any element $X \in \mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ is called a finite-variation (execution) strategy, and the process $D ^ { X }$ defined by (1) is called the associated deviation (process).

We now set up the cost functional. In the first step we define for all $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ -valued càdlàg finite-variation processes $X = ( X ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ with $X ( 0 - ) = x$ and with associated process $D ^ { X } = ( D ^ { X } ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ given by (1) the pathwise costs by (2). Note that for all $X \in \mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ the expectation $\dot { E } \dot { \left[ C ( X ) \right] }$ is well defined (cf. Proposition 2.6).
