$$(t, \omega , \boldsymbol {\eta}) \mapsto \int_ {0} ^ {t} \left(F _ {r} (\boldsymbol {\eta}) X _ {r} ^ {(n)} + f _ {r} (\boldsymbol {\eta})\right) d \boldsymbol {\eta} _ {r},$$

has a $B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable version. To this end, we recall that the integral is defined as the uniform in time limit in P -probability of the Riemann-Stieltjes sums

$$I _ {t} ^ {\Pi , (\boldsymbol {\eta})} := \sum_ {[ u, v ] \in \Pi , u \leq t} \left(F _ {u} (\boldsymbol {\eta}) X _ {u} ^ {(n)} + f _ {u} (\boldsymbol {\eta})\right) \eta_ {u, v \wedge t} + \left(F _ {u} ^ {\prime} (\boldsymbol {\eta}) X _ {u} ^ {(n)} + F _ {u} (\boldsymbol {\eta}) X _ {u} ^ {\prime (n)} + f _ {u} ^ {\prime} (\boldsymbol {\eta})\right) \eta_ {u, v \wedge t} ^ {(2)}.$$

The process $I ^ { \Pi , ( \pmb { \eta } ) }$ is $B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable. By Lemma 6.2 with $( U , { \mathcal { U } } )$ in the lemma taken as $( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } , B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } ) )$ , we see that the limit $\int _ { 0 } ^ { \cdot } ( \ldots ) d \eta$ has a $B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable version.

It follows that $X ^ { ( n ) }$ has a $B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable version $\bar { X } ^ { ( n ) }$ and $\bar { X } ^ { ( n ) } ( \cdot , \eta )$ converges to $X ^ { \eta }$ uniformly in time in P-probability. The assertion hence follows from Lemma 6.2. □

In what follows, we identify the solution to our rSDE with its $B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } )$ )-progressively measurable version. The progressive measurability of the solution to our rough SDE allows us to define pathwise control problems with anticipative controls. Continuity of the solution is required to prove their equivalence to rough control problems.

Assumption 3.11. Suppose $( m , \beta , \beta ^ { \prime } , \xi , \bar { \alpha } )$ satisfies Assumption 3.2. Moreover, assume that:
