# 5.3. Proofs for Section 4

Proof of Proposition 4.5. First, note that Assumption 4.2 ensures that $( \mathcal { F } _ { s } ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ is the augmented natural filtration of the Brownian motion W . Furthermore, Remark 2.2 and the fact that the terminal value of the BSDE, ${ \begin{array} { l } { { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } I _ { n } , } \end{array} }$ , is symmetric, show that the assumptions $( \mathrm { A } 1 ) ^ { \prime }$ and (A2) in Sun et al. [52] are satisfied. Since we moreover assume that Assumption 4.3 is met, we can apply [52, Theorem 9.1]. This proves (i) and (ii). Furthermore, we can show that the optimal costs are given by (38) (cf. Section 5 and the introduction of Section 6 in [52]), which proves (iii). □

Proof of Lemma 4.9. Note that all assumptions of Corollary 4.7 are satisfied. Hence, there exist a unique solution $( \mathcal { Y } , \mathcal { Z } )$ of the BSDE (33), a unique solution $\mathcal { H } ^ { \ast }$ of the SDE (36), and a unique optimal strategy $X ^ { \ast }$ in $A ^ { p m }$ for $J ^ { p m }$ , which is given by (39) with associated deviation $D ^ { * }$ satisfying (40).

1. Suppose first that $d = \gamma ( 0 ) x$ . It then holds that $\mathcal { H } ^ { * } ( 0 ) = \gamma ^ { - \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( 0 ) d - \gamma ^ { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( 0 ) x = 0$ . This and (36) show that $\mathcal { H } ^ { \ast } \equiv 0$ . It thus follows from (39) that $X ^ { \ast } ( 0 - ) = x , X ^ { \ast } ( s ) = 0$ , $s \in [ 0 , T ]$ . Moreover, the fact that $\mathcal { H } ^ { \ast } \equiv 0$ and (40) imply that $D ^ { * } ( s ) = 0 , s \in [ 0 , T )$ . We obtain that (17) is satisfied. Combined with the fact that $X ^ { \ast } \in \mathcal { A } ^ { p m }$ has finite variation, this shows that $X ^ { \ast } \in \mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ .   
2. Suppose now that $\rho \equiv 0$ . Observe that if $\mathcal { V } \equiv \frac { 1 } { 2 } I _ { n }$ and $\mathcal { Z } \equiv 0$ , then the driver g in (34) of the BSDE (33) equals 0. Hence, $( \mathcal { V } , \bar { \mathcal { Z } } ) = ( \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 2 } I _ { n } , 0 )$ is a solution of the BSDE (33). Therefore, we have that $\theta \equiv I _ { n }$ in (35). We hence obtain from (39) that $X ^ { * } ( 0 - ) = x , X ^ { * } ( s ) = 0 , s \in [ 0 , T ]$ . Further, (40) shows that $D ^ { * } ( s ) = \gamma ^ { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( s ) \mathcal { H } ^ { * } ( s )$ ,

$s \in [ 0 , T )$ . This and the fact that σ is $d P \times d s { \mathrm { - a . e } }$ . bounded ensure that there exists $c \in ( 0 , \infty )$ such that
