As a starting point we consider the finite-variation problem in which the agent chooses X from the set of admissible strategies called $\mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ , which is the set of $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } .$ -valued càdlàg finite-variation processes $\boldsymbol { X } = ( X ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ that satisfy $X ( 0 - ) = x , X ( T ) = \xi$ , and certain integrability conditions (see Section 2.3 for details). We assume an additive price impact model where the underlying unaffected price processes of the assets are suitable martingales, and we thus focus on the price deviation that stems from the trading activities of the agent which we model by

$$d D ^ {X} (s) = - \rho (s) D ^ {X} (s) d s + \gamma (s) d X (s), \quad s \in [ 0, T ], \quad D ^ {X} (0 -) = d. \tag {1}$$

The initial deviation immediately prior to the time 0 is given by $D ^ { X } ( 0 - ) = d \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ (usually $d = 0 \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } )$ . Note that according to (1) a trade in some asset, that is, a change of the position $X$ , has a linear influence on $D ^ { X }$ with the matrix-valued price impact process $\gamma$ as a factor. We emphasize that we do not assume $\gamma$ to be diagonal1 implying that the deviation in a certain asset can also be affected by the trades in the other assets.

To further discuss the price deviation, observe that the term $- \rho ( s ) D ^ { X } ( s ) d s$ , involving the stochastic matrix-valued resilience process $\rho ,$ governs the evolution of $D ^ { X }$ when the agent is not trading. If $\rho$ is a.s. symmetric and uniformly positive definite in time, this term induces an exponential decay of the price deviation to zero. This reflects that, following a trade, new orders gradually replenish the order book – a phenomenon known as the resilience effect. We emphasize, however, that our results do not require $\rho$ to be a.s. symmetric and uniformly positive definite in time. Instead, we impose only weaker assumptions (see, e.g., Assumption 4.3 and Remark 4.4). In particular, our framework also accommodates models where the price impact exhibits self-exciting behavior. For a discussion of qualitative effects of such negative resilience in the single-asset situation, we refer to [5]. Furthermore, note that $\rho$ is not necessarily diagonal.
