$$X ^ {v} (\omega) := X ^ {\boldsymbol {B} (\omega), u (\cdot , \boldsymbol {B} (\omega))} (\omega).$$

Under suitable assumptions on the model parameters we prove that the random variable

$$\omega \mapsto X ^ {B (\omega), u (\cdot , B (\omega))} (\omega)$$

is measurable (this is not trivial) so that the conditional cost functional (1.4), and hence the pathwise stochastic control problem, is well defined up to an integrability assumption on the cost coefficients. Moreover, we show that the SMP for rough stochastic control problems yields an SMP for pathwise stochastic control problems and that under an additional continuity assumption on the cost function, the randomized rough stochastic and the pathwise stochastic problem share the same value function:

$$\left(\inf _ {u \in \mathcal {A}} J ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}} (u; t, x)\right) \Big | _ {\boldsymbol {\eta} = \boldsymbol {B} (\omega)} = \operatorname{essinf} _ {u \in \bar {\mathcal {A}}} J ^ {\boldsymbol {B} (\omega)} (u; t, x).$$

This result is not obvious, as the sets of admissible controls in the two settings are very different. In the rough setting, admissible controls are required to be ${ \mathcal { F } } ^ { W }$ -progressively measurable; no a priori measurability of controls w.r.t. to the driving rough path is required. By contrast, anticipative controls are measurable w.r.t. Brownian paths.

If the rough problem admits an optimal control $u ^ { * } ( \cdot , \eta )$ that is measurable in the rough path η as is the case for $\mathrm { L Q }$ problems, then $u ^ { * } ( \cdot , B ( \omega ) )$ is almost surely an optimal control to the anticipative control problem, and the optimal state dynamics is well defined as the solution to a rSDE.

In conclusion, our contributions are twofold. First, on the rough stochastic analysis side, we establish the well-posedness of rough SDEs driven by affine rough stochastic drivers, and we derive a representation of the rough Doss–Sussmann transformation when the driver is an affine stochastically controlled function.

Second, we apply this rough stochastic analysis framework to obtain Pontryagin’s maximum principle—both necessary and sufficient conditions—for pathwise stochastic control problems, allowing for admissible controls that may be anticipative. Our framework accommodates linear–quadratic models that were beyond the scope of earlier works.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews selected results from the rough path theory. Section 3 establishes the existence, uniqueness, and regularity of solutions for stochastic systems with affine rough drivers. Section 4 introduces the rough control problem and establishes maximum principles for such systems. Section 5 introduces a framework for solving anticipative pathwise control problems.
