# 1. Introduction

Cross-impact describes the phenomenon that trading in a financial asset not only affects its own price but also the prices of other assets. The implications of this effect have drawn increasing attention in the literature on price manipulation and optimal trade execution in multi-asset models. Studies analyzing cross-impact in the context of multidimensional optimal trade execution include, for example, Alfonsi et al. [8], Horst & Xia [37], Tsoukalas et al. [54], Abi Jaber et al. [1], Bertsimas & Lo [19, Section 5], Bertsimas et al. [18], Almgren & Chriss [10, Appendix A], and Ma et al. [44]. Further works that investigate trading in cross-impact models include, for instance, Bilarev [20, Chapter 5], Schneider & Lillo [50], Gârleanu & Pedersen [29], Huberman & Stanzl [38, Section 5], Muhle-Karbe & Tracy [45], and Hey et al. [33].

At the same time, a growing body of research analyzes the role of stochastic liquidity in single-asset optimal trade execution problems. Contributions in this area include Almgren [9], Schied [49], Ankirchner et al. [12], Cheridito & Sepin [23], Ankirchner & Kruse [13], Graewe et al. [31], Kruse & Popier [42], Horst et al. [36], Graewe & Horst [30], Bank & Voß [15], Graewe et al. [32], Popier & Zhou [48], and Ankirchner et al. [11]. These works extend the market impact models of Almgren & Chriss [10] and Bertsimas & Lo [19] by incorporating stochastic liquidity parameters. Moreover, Ackermann et al. [2, 3, 4, 5] analyze the effects of randomly evolving order book depth and resilience in extended variants of the models of Alfonsi & Acevedo [6], Bank & Fruth [14], Fruth et al. [26, 27], Siu et al. [51], Alfonsi et al. [7], and Obizhaeva & Wang [46]. Furthermore, Horst & Kivman [35] allow for stochastic resilience while examining the optimal portfolio process for small instantaneous price impact factors.

A paper that analyzes the combined effects of cross-impact and stochastic liquidity characteristics in multi-asset optimal trade execution problems is Horst & Xia [37]. The authors address optimal trade execution with both instantaneous and persistent price impact, thereby incorporating cross-impact, as well as stochastic resilience, using backward stochastic Riccati differential equations. They restrict attention to deterministic price impacts, allowing only the resilience to evolve stochastically.
