Assumption 4.7. Suppose that Assumption 4.1 holds and that for any $\eta , \bar { \eta } \in \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha }$ , the controlled rough paths $( F , F ^ { \prime } ) ( \cdot )$ and $( f , f ^ { \prime } ) ( \cdot )$ satisfy the condition (3.50). Moreover, restrict the set of admissible controls to be

$$\mathcal {A} := \{u: [ 0, T ] \times \Omega \rightarrow V, \text { adapted and continuous with } \mathbb {E} [ \sup _ {t \in [ 0, T ]} | u _ {t} | ^ {p} ] < \infty , \forall p \geq 2 \}. \tag {4.21}$$

Remark 4.4. It is standard to show that A above is a Polish space under metric

$$d _ {\mathcal {A}} (u, v) := \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {\infty} 2 ^ {- i} (\| \sup _ {t \in [ 0, T ]} u _ {t} \| _ {i} \wedge 1).$$

In particular, if V is bounded, then Lemma 4.8 follows by an argument similar to that of [16, Lemma 5.7], without requiring $u \in { \mathcal { A } }$ to be continuous.

The following lemma provides a sufficient condition for the existence of measurable ϵ-optimal controls.

Lemma 4.8. Let $( \mathcal { X } , \Sigma ( \mathcal { X } ) )$ be a measurable space and A be a Polish space. Suppose

$$J: \mathcal {X} \times \mathcal {A} \to \mathbb {R}, (x, a) \mapsto J (x, a)$$

is a Carath´eodory function, i.e. for any a $\in \mathcal { A } , \ : J ( \cdot , a )$ is measurable and for any $x \in \mathcal { X } , J ( x , \cdot )$ is continuous. Then, for every $\varepsilon > 0$ there exists a jointly measurable mapping $a ^ { \varepsilon } : \mathcal { X } \to \mathcal { A }$ such that for any $x \in \mathcal X$ , the control $a ^ { \varepsilon } ( x )$ is an ε-optimal control for the control problem $\mathcal { V } ( x ) : = \operatorname* { i n f } _ { a \in \mathcal { A } } J ( x , a )$ , that is

$$\inf _ {a \in \mathcal {A}} J (x, a) + \varepsilon \geq J (x, a ^ {\varepsilon} (x)).$$

In particular, under Assumption $4 . 7$ there exists a $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable ε-optimal control for the value function (4.4).

Proof. Let $\varepsilon > 0$ . For any $x \in \mathcal { X }$ , consider the set-valued mapping

$$\Gamma^ {\varepsilon} (x) := \{a \in \mathcal {A}: J (x, a) < \mathcal {V} (x) + \varepsilon \}.$$

According to [1, Lemma $1 7 . 7 ] , \Gamma ^ { \varepsilon } ( \cdot )$ is a measurable correspondence, and thus weakly measurable (see [1, Chapter 16] for notations). Then by [1, Lemma 17.3], its closure:

$$\bar {\Gamma} ^ {\varepsilon} (x) = \{a \in \mathcal {A}: J (x, a) \leq \mathcal {V} (x) + \varepsilon \}$$
