Given that system identification is frequently the initial phase toward controlling systems with unknown dynamics, the impact of quantization on identification inherently propagates to controllers and state estimators, and ultimately influences the overall system performance. The choice of the quantizer is also of particular significance, as it can affect the system’s performance [5], [6].

In this letter, we study the effects of dither quantization [7]—a widely adopted and highly effective quantization method in control, communication, and signal processing applications—on the data-driven MPC of unknown LTI systems, leading to a framework of Quantized System Identification for MPC, hereafter referred to as the QSID-MPC algorithm. Our prior works [8]–[10] delved into the effect of dither quantization on Koopman-based system identification method. However, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to quantify the effect of quantized system identification on data-driven MPC performance.

The main contributions of this letter are as follows: (i) We establish explicit bounds on the identification error arising from quantized input and state data in the identification of LTI systems. In particular, we show that the model error depends on the quantization resolution  as O( 2). (ii) We ϵ ϵprove the uniform ultimate boundedness of QSID-MPC tracking error. Furthermore, we show that this ultimate bound similarly depends on  as O( 2). (iii) Our theory is validated through ϵ ϵextensive experiments on two applications, testing various quantization resolutions.

The rest of the letter is organized as follows: We define our problem statement in Section II and analyze the effect of dither quantization on system identification in Section III, demonstrating the effect of quantization resolution on the identification error. We provide the ultimate bound on MPC tracking error for the identified system in Section IV. We discuss our observations from implementing QSID-MPC on two dynamical systems in Section V and we provide some conclusions in Section VI.

Notations: Set of non-negative integers are denoted by N0. (·)† and (·)⊤ denote the Moore–Penrose inverse and transpose of a matrix, respectively. ∥ · ∥ denotes a norm, where we use Euclidean norm for vectors and Frobenius norms for matrices. The Big-O notation is denoted by O(·).
