Subcase 2 (if the possible solution would make the system get into a deadlock when the constraint Eq. (19c) is active, i.e., $\dot { h } _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } + \beta ( h _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } ) = 0 )$ : Assume by contradiction that there exists a boundary equilibrium point $( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } , \mathbf { Q } _ { i } ^ { \star } )$ for the agent i which would make the agent fall into the deadlock. Because $( \dot { \bf x } _ { i } , \dot { \bf Q } _ { i } ) = ( 0 , 0 )$ at the equilibrium point, we can get that $\dot { V } = 0 , \dot { V } _ { q } = 0 , \dot { h } _ { i j } = 0$ and $\dot { h } _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } = 0 .$ . From the KKT condition in Eq. (21), we have $\delta _ { i } \ : \stackrel { \smile } { = } \ : 0 . 5 p ^ { - 1 } \lambda _ { 1 }$ . According to the CLF constraint Eq. (19a), we can get $( 1 -$ $\zeta _ { i } ) ( \gamma ( V ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) ) ) + \zeta _ { i } \gamma ( V _ { q } ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) ) \leq \delta _ { i }$ . Furthermore, we can get $\lambda _ { 1 } \geq p ( ( 1 - \zeta _ { i } ) ( \gamma ( V ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) ) ) + \zeta _ { i } \gamma ( V _ { q } ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) ) )$ . Because the functions V and $V _ { q }$ are both positive definite, we have $\lambda _ { 1 } > 0$ , which means that CLF constraint Eq. (19a) is active. Additionally, since $\mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } \in \partial \mathcal { H } , h _ { i j } = 0$ . Because $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { h } _ { i j } + h _ { i j } = 0 . } \end{array}$ , we can ensure that the constraint Eq. (19b) is also active. Because Eq. (19c) is active and $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { h } _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } = 0 , } \end{array}$ , we can say that $h _ { \mathcal { D } _ { i j } } = \psi ( 0 ) ( \mathcal { D } _ { i j } - \epsilon ) = 0$ . Therefore, $\mathcal { D } _ { i j } = \epsilon$ , which means that $f ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) , G ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) \nabla V ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } , \mathbf { Q } _ { i } ^ { \star } )$ and $G ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } ) \nabla _ { \mathbf { x } _ { i } } h _ { i j } ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } ^ { \star } )$ are not simultaneously collinear. Using similar argument [14] and according to Eq. (20), the solution for $\mathbf { u } _ { i }$ is:

$$\mathbf {u} _ {i} ^ {\star} = \frac {\lambda_ {2} L _ {g} h _ {i j} ^ {T} + \lambda_ {3} \zeta_ {i} L _ {g} h _ {\mathcal {D} _ {i j}} ^ {T} - \lambda_ {1} (1 - \zeta_ {i}) L _ {g} V ^ {T} - \lambda_ {1} \zeta_ {i} L _ {g} V _ {g} ^ {T}}{2} \tag {22}$$

When all the constraints are active, the KKT conditions yield the new equilibrium condition:
