$$\| \sup _ {t \in [ 0, T ]} | \tilde {X} _ {t} | \| _ {m} \lesssim_ {M, \bar {M}} \| \tilde {\xi} \| _ {m} + \theta .$$

□

3.3. Measurability and continuity w.r.t. parameters. Let $X ^ { \eta }$ be the solution to the rSDE (3.1) with η-dependent coefficients. To define anticipative pathwise control problems, we need the measurability of the solution mapping

$$X: [ 0, T ] \times \Omega \times \mathcal {C} ^ {\alpha} \to \mathbb {R} ^ {d _ {X}}$$

as a parameter-dependent stochastic process. To prove the equivalence of rough and pathwise control problems we need a strong result, namely the continuity of the solution w.r.t. the rough driver.

Definition 3.8. Let $( \Omega , \mathcal { F } , ( \mathcal { F } _ { t } ) _ { t \geq 0 } , \mathbb { P } )$ be a filtered probability space with the filtration $( \mathcal { F } _ { t } ) _ { t \geq 0 }$ satisfying the usual conditions, and $( U , { \mathcal { U } } )$ be a measurable space. A measurable map

$$Y: (([ 0, T ] \times \Omega) \times U, (\mathcal {B} ([ 0, T ]) \otimes \mathcal {F}) \otimes \mathcal {U}) \mapsto (\mathbb {R} ^ {d}, \mathcal {B} (\mathbb {R} ^ {d})), \quad (t, \omega , u) \mapsto Y ^ {u} (t, \omega)$$

is called U-progressively measurable if for any $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , its restriction on $[ 0 , t ] \times \Omega \times U$ is measurable w.r.t. $B ( [ 0 , t ] ) \otimes \mathcal { F } _ { t }$ ⊗U. Moreover, we say that Y has a U-progressively measurable version $\tilde { Y } \ i f \tilde { Y }$ is U-progressively measurable and for any $u \in U$ , the processes $\tilde { Y } ( \cdot , u )$ and $Y ( \cdot , u )$ are indistinguishable.

To guarantee the progressive measurability of the solutions to the rSDEs (3.1) w.r.t. the rough path we assume that the following conditions are satisfied.

Assumption 3.9. Suppose $( m , \beta , \beta ^ { \prime } , \xi , \bar { \alpha } )$ satisfies Assumption 3.2.

(i) For any $\eta \in \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } , \left( b ( \cdot , \eta ) , \sigma ( \cdot , \eta ) , F ( \cdot , \eta ) , F ^ { \prime } ( \cdot , \eta ) , f ( \cdot , \eta ) , f ^ { \prime } ( \cdot , \eta ) \right) s a t i s f i e s \ A s s u m p t i o n \ 3 . . . \ \mathscr { Q } .$   
(ii) $( b , \sigma )$ and $( F , F ^ { \prime } , f , f ^ { \prime } )$ are U-progressively measurable with $( U , \mathcal { U } ) = \left( \mathbb { R } ^ { d x } \times \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } , \mathcal { B } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d x } ) \otimes \mathcal { B } ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } ) \right)$ and $( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } , B ( \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } ) )$ , respectively.
