From the representation (42) of the optimal strategy we conclude that the optimal strategy in the multi-asset Obizhaeva–Wang model can have block trades only at the time points 0 and T . In between, trading in all assets happens with constant rates. In addition, the price deviation stays constant on $[ 0 , T )$ when trading according to the optimal strategy (cf. (43)). We recall that these features are also characteristic for optimal strategies in the classic single-asset Obizhaeva–Wang model [46]. However, it is in general not optimal to simply take the optimal strategies from the individual singleasset models. In particular, we show in Example 4.12 that it can be optimal to also trade in an asset where the initial position is 0, whereas in the single-asset model the optimal strategy given the initial position 0 (and the initial deviation 0) is to stay at the position 0 (cf., for example, Lemma 4.9).

Example 4.12. Within Setting 4.10 suppose that $n = 2 , x _ { 1 } \neq 0 , x _ { 2 } = 0 , d = 0$ , and

$$
\rho = \left( \begin{array}{c c} \rho_ {1} & \rho_ {3} \\ \rho_ {3} & \rho_ {2} \end{array} \right),
$$

where $\rho _ { 1 } , \rho _ { 2 } , \rho _ { 3 } \in \mathbb { R }$ are chosen in such a way that $\rho \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { 2 }$ . Moreover, choose $\gamma$ such that $\gamma$ and $\rho$ commute. Then, Corollary 4.11 and some matrix computations demonstrate that the optimal strategy $X ^ { \ast } \in \mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ is given by $X ^ { \ast } ( 0 - ) = x , X ^ { \ast } ( T ) = 0$ , and

$$X _ {1} ^ {*} (s) = \frac {\left[ (1 + (T - s) \rho_ {1}) (2 + T \rho_ {2}) - T (T - s) \rho_ {3} ^ {2} \right] x _ {1}}{(2 + T \rho_ {1}) (2 + T \rho_ {2}) - T ^ {2} \rho_ {3} ^ {2}}, \tag {44}X _ {2} ^ {*} (s) = \frac {(T - 2 s) \rho_ {3} x _ {1}}{(2 + T \rho_ {1}) (2 + T \rho_ {2}) - T ^ {2} \rho_ {3} ^ {2}}, \quad s \in [ 0, T).$$

In particular, if $\rho _ { 3 } \neq 0$ , then it is optimal to also trade in the second asset although one has a non-zero objective only for the first asset. In Section C.2 we provide additional discussion of this example as well as a figure of the optimal strategy.

In the case of Example 4.12, the behavior of the optimal strategy to entail trading in an asset with the initial position 0 is due to the off-diagonal entries in the resilience $\rho .$ We illustrate numerically in Section C.3 and Section C.4 that also off-diagonal entries $\mathrm { i n } \ \Xi \ \mathrm { o r }$ in the price impact $\gamma ,$ , respectively, can lead to such effects. To this end, we go beyond the multi-asset Obizhaeva–Wang model. Furthermore, we, in Example C.16 in the appendix, present a simulation of the optimal strategy in a situation with stochastic price impact.
