In addition, let us assume that $\tilde { N } > 0$ and $\tilde { M } , \tilde { G }$ are non-negative. Since $( A , A ^ { - 1 } , \zeta )$ is α-H¨older continuous it then follows from [28, Theorem 5.3] (see also [29, 5, 24]), there exists a unique bounded non-negative solution P to (4.19), and so the linear ODE (4.20) is also well-posed. Moreover, since $( A , A ^ { - 1 } , \zeta )$ depends continuously on the rough path η so do the coefficients $\hat { B } , \hat { D } , \hat { M } A , \hat { G } A _ { T }$ as mappings from $\mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha }$ to $C ( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } )$ . It then follows by [20, Theorem 2.1] that the mapping $P = P ^ { \eta } : \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } \to C ( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } )$ is continuous, and in particular $P _ { t } ^ { \eta }$ is $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ )-measurable. The same applies to the mapping $q = q ^ { \eta }$ . Thus the forward part of the FBSDE (4.17) is a linear SDE with $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable coefficients, which implies $\tilde { X }$ is exponentially integrable. Then thanks to Proposition 3.10, $\tilde { X }$ is also $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable. It follows that the control $u ^ { * }$ given by (4.18) belongs to A, and moreover, $u ^ { * }$ has continuous sample paths.

In general, it is difficult to prove that an optimal control depends measurably η. However, as shown by the following lemma, for any $\varepsilon > 0$ there exists an $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha }$ )-progressively measurable ε-optimal control. This will later allow us to solve pathwise control problems on the level of value function.

Different from the bounded coefficient case ([16]), we need to apply the Kuratowski-Ryll-Nardzewski Selection Theorem to obtain the measurable ε-optimal control, and thus we need to restrict our space of admissible controls to be Polish.

In the above linear quadratic example, the optimal control takes the feedback form (4.18), and we can thus restrict admissible controls to have continuous sample paths. Moreover, since $\tilde { X }$ is exponentially integrable, in that setting we can assume that admissible controls admit uniform in time integrability of any order. This motivates the following more restrictive set of admissible controls.
