Theorem 4.5 (Rough SMP for affine rough control). Suppose that Assumption 4.1 holds and let H be the Hamiltonian introduced in (4.13). For any $u \in { \mathcal { A } }$ , let $X ^ { u }$ be the solution to the rSDE (4.2). Then the following holds.

(1) $I f \left( u ^ { * } , X ^ { * } \right)$ is an optimal pair for the rough stochastic control problem (4.4), then for any $v \in V ,$

$$\partial_ {u} H (t, X _ {t} ^ {*}, Y _ {t} ^ {*}, Z _ {t} ^ {*}, u _ {t} ^ {*}) (v - u _ {t} ^ {*}) \geq 0, a. e. L e b (d t) \times \mathbb {P},$$

where $( Y ^ { * } , Z ^ { * } )$ is the solution to the BSDE (4.14) with $( u , X ^ { u } ) = ( u ^ { * } , X ^ { * } )$ .

(2) Given $\hat { u } \in \mathcal A$ and $\hat { X }$ is the corresponding solution to (4.2). Assume that

$$H (t, \hat {X} _ {t}, \hat {Y} _ {t}, \hat {Z} _ {t}, \hat {u} _ {t}) = \min _ {v \in V} H (t, \hat {X} _ {t}, \hat {Y} _ {t}, \hat {Z} _ {t}, v), \forall t \in [ 0, T ], \mathbb {P} \text {-a.s.}$$

where $( \hat { Y } , \hat { Z } )$ is the corresponding solution to (4.14). Moreover, assume that $\mathbb { P } { - } a . s .$ . for any $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , mappings $( x , u ) \mapsto H ( t , x , \hat { Y } _ { t } , \hat { Z } _ { t } , u )$ and $x \mapsto g ( x )$ are convex. Then uˆ is an optimal control, or equivalently, $( \hat { u } , \hat { X } )$ is an optimal pair.

Remark 4.3. (1). The differentiability of coefficients in the control variable can be relaxed. For the sufficient part of the maximum principle (Theorem $4 . 5 ~ ( 2 ) )$ it is not needed. The necessary part can also be obtained using different perturbation arguments using higher order differentiability with respect to the state variable as the classical case. (2). We apply the Doss-Sussmann transformation to circumvent the analysis of a rough version of (4.14), known as rough BSDEs (see [11] for details).

4.3. Measurability of optimal controls. In Section 5 we show how to solve pathwise anticipative control problems using the rough control problem analyzed in this section both on the level of value functions and, more generally, on the level of optimal controls.

To solve the pathwise LQ we need the $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ -progressively measurability of the optimal control to the corresponding rough control problem. For this, we continue our analysis of the rough LQ problem.

Example 4.6 (LQ problem continued). Let us return to the rough LQ control problem introduced in Example 4.2. To simplify the exposition we focus on the one-dimensional case with deterministic coefficients. Then,
