$$\mathcal {R} + 4 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} \mathcal {Y} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} - \varepsilon I _ {n}$$

is dP × ds-a.e. $\mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued.

(ii) Let $( \mathcal { Y } , \mathcal { Z } )$ be the unique solution of the BSDE (33). Then there exists a unique $u ^ { * } \in \mathcal L ^ { 2 }$ such that for all $u \in \mathcal { L } ^ { 2 }$ it holds $P { \mathrm { - } } a . s .$ . that $J ( u ^ { * } ) \leq J ( u )$ . Moreover, there exists a unique solution $\mathcal { H } ^ { \ast }$ of the SDE (36) (the state process associated to $u ^ { * } )$ , and the unique optimal control $u ^ { * }$ admits the representation

$$u ^ {*} (s) = \theta (s) \mathcal {H} ^ {*} (s), \quad s \in [ 0, T ], \tag {37}$$

where θ is defined in (35).

(iii) Let $( \mathcal { Y } , \mathcal { Z } )$ be the unique solution of the BSDE (33). Then

$$\inf _ {u \in \mathcal {L} ^ {2}} J (u) = \left(\gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (0) d - \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (0) x\right) ^ {\top} \mathscr {Y} (0) \left(\gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (0) d - \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (0) x\right). \tag {38}$$

Remark 4.6. Suppose that Assumption 4.2 and Assumption 4.3 are in force and that $\sigma = 0 , \xi = 0$ , and $\zeta = 0$ . Then Proposition 4.5 shows that there must exist $\varepsilon \in ( 0 , \infty )$ such that $\mathcal { R } - \varepsilon I _ { n }$ is $d P \times d s { \mathrm { - a . e } }$ . $\mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n } .$ -valued. In particular, $\mathrm { i f } \Xi \equiv 0$ then κ has to be $d P \times d s \mathrm { - a . e . ~ } \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n } \mathrm { - v a l u e d }$ .

In Corollary 4.7 we state the solution of the trade execution problem of Section 3.1 with zero targets $\xi = 0$ and $\zeta = 0$ . This result is obtained by combining Proposition 4.5 and Corollary 4.1.

Corollary 4.7. Assume that $\xi = 0$ and $\zeta = 0$ . Let Assumption 4.2 and Assumption $4 . 3$ be in force. Let $( \mathcal { Y } , \mathcal { Z } )$ be the unique solution of the BSDE (33) (cf. Proposition $4 . 5 )$ . Recall the definition (35) of θ, and let $\mathcal { H } ^ { \ast }$ be the unique solution of the SDE (36) (cf. Proposition $4 . 5 )$ .

Then there exists a unique (up to $d P \times d s { - } n u l l$ sets) minimizer $X ^ { \ast }$ of $J ^ { p m }$ in $A ^ { p m }$ . Moreover, it holds that

$$
\begin{array}{l} X ^ {*} (0 -) = x, \quad X ^ {*} (T) = 0, \\ X ^ {*} (x) = \pi^ {\frac {1}{2}} (x) (0 (x) - I _ {x}) 2 4 ^ {*} (x) = [ 0, T) \end{array} \tag {39}
X ^ {*} (s) = \gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (s) \bigl (\theta (s) - I _ {n} \bigr) \mathcal {H} ^ {*} (s), \quad s \in [ 0, T).$$
