$$\hat {A} = A - \epsilon^ {2} \Delta_ {A}, \tag {5a}\hat {B} = B - \epsilon^ {2} \Delta_ {B}, \tag {5b}\text { where } [ \Delta_ {A}, \Delta_ {B} ] = [ A, B ] \left(1 2 \lim _ {T \rightarrow \infty} \frac {\Psi_ {\mathrm{uqz}} (\Psi_ {\mathrm{uqz}}) ^ {\top}}{T} + \epsilon^ {2} I\right) ^ {- 1},$$

with $\Psi _ { \mathrm { u q z } }$ being the data matrix Ψ constructed from unquantized data.

Proof: The proof follows directly from [10, Theorem 3], which proves that $[ \hat { A } , \hat { B } ]$ , as defined in (3), can be written as

$$[ \hat {A}, \hat {B} ] = [ A _ {\mathrm{uqz}}, B _ {\mathrm{uqz}} ] - \frac {\epsilon^ {2}}{1 2} [ A _ {\mathrm{uqz}}, B _ {\mathrm{uqz}} ] \left(\lim _ {T \rightarrow \infty} \frac {\Psi_ {\mathrm{uqz}} \Psi_ {\mathrm{uqz}} ^ {\top}}{T} + \frac {\epsilon^ {2}}{1 2} I\right) ^ {- 1},$$

where $[ A _ { \mathrm { u q z } } , B _ { \mathrm { u q z } } ]$ is the identified system (i.e., solution to ,(3)) with unquantized data. In Remark 2, we show one can accurately identify [A B] with unquatized data, leading to the relationship

$$[ \hat {A}, \hat {B} ] = [ A, B ] - \epsilon^ {2} [ A, B ] \left(1 2 \lim _ {T \rightarrow \infty} \frac {\Psi_ {\mathrm{uqz}} \Psi_ {\mathrm{uqz}} ^ {\top}}{T} + \epsilon^ {2} I\right) ^ {- 1},$$

which proves this theorem.

Let $c _ { A } = \| \Delta _ { A } \|$ and $c _ { B } = { \| \Delta _ { B } \| }$ for the subsequent analysis.

Theorem 1 shows how the quantization resolution affects the identification process, providing a fundamental connection between data quality and identification accuracy. Another interesting observation is that $[ { \hat { A } } , { \hat { B } } ] .$ , as computed in (3), would ,be a random matrix due to the dithering noise introduced via quantization (the data matrix Ψ is dithering noise dependent). However, as shown in (5), it appears that $[ \hat { A } , \hat { B } ]$ is a deterministic quantity since neither $[ A , B ]$ nor $[ \Delta _ { A } , \Delta _ { B } ]$ depends on , ,the dithering noise. This is because the noises ‘average out’ in the large data regime: a phenomenon that is fundamental to system identification under dither quantization in a large data regime, as originally shown in [8] and then later in [9], [10].

Although large-data regime provides a clear relationship between the model mismatch and the quantization error, we next discuss some fine-data regime results, as numerical algorithms will have finite amount of data.
