A priori, only nonanticipative controls are allowed in [6, 22, 23]. Anticipative controls were primarily a vehicle to solve the wider sense and eventually the pathwise control problem. At the same time, one would expect optimal controls to be anticipative; a specific example where this is indeed the case is given in [6]. This suggests to work right away with anticipative controls, and to consider instead the value function

$$\tilde {v} (\omega , t, x) := \operatorname{essinf} _ {v \in \tilde {\mathcal {A}}} J (v; t, x). \tag {1.6}$$

This value function corresponds to an anticipative pathwise stochastic control problem where the state dynamics is perturbed by an observable, yet uncontrolled exogenous noise. A typical example would be the representative player’s optimization problem in a mean-field game with deterministic common noise if one is interested in understanding how the mean-field game equilibrium varies with the exogenous perturbation.

Working with anticipative controls is closer in spirit to traditional stochastic control, where it is commonly assumed that controls are adapted to the filtration with respect to which conditional expectations are computed. In the pathwise stochastic control setting, this is the filtration $( \mathcal { F } _ { t } ^ { W } \otimes \mathcal { F } _ { T } ^ { B } ) _ { t \in [ 0 , T ] }$ .

Using anticipative controls has been hindered so far by the fact that the state dynamics (1.3) is ill-posed as a standard Itˆo or Stratonovich integral equation when controls are allowed to depend on the full path $B ( \omega )$ . In particular, it may not be possible to define the optimal state dynamics of a non-anticipative pathwise stochastic control problem in the framework of traditional stochastic analysis.

In this paper, we introduce a mathematical framework based on rough path theory that allows us to introduce a broad class of rough stochastic control problems, in terms of which we can define pathwise stochastic control problems with anticipative controls. We establish necessary and sufficient maximum principles for such problems and show that rough and anticipative control problems are equivalent.

1.2. Rough stochastic control problems. To the best of our knowledge, Diehl et al. [12] were the first to apply rough path theory to optimal control. They considered a controlled dynamics of the form
