Choosing τ small enough so that $C _ { \eta , K } \tau ^ { ( \frac { 1 } { 2 } - \beta ) \wedge ( \beta - \beta ^ { \prime } ) } < \frac { 1 } { 2 } \ :$ , we see that Ψ is a contraction. Since τ is independent of the initial condition, the argument can be iterated to obtain a unique global solution. □

Remark 3.3. The above theorem provides a generic solution theory for rough SDEs with an affine rough driver, together with local Lipschitz estimates with respect to the underlying rough paths (see the following subsection). Compared with earlier approaches to rough SDEs (see e.g. [13] and references therein), we believe that our method is more amenable to discretization, incorporates randomness naturally, and can be readily adapted to a variety of applications, including filtering, mean-field control, and differential games.

Replacing stochastic by deterministic sewing in the above proof, we obtain the well-posedness of linear RDE $( { \mathrm { i . e . ~ } } \sigma = 0 )$ . If F is deterministic and $b = 0$ , a corresponding result can be found in, e.g. [13].

In the following we allow $( F , F ^ { \prime } )$ to be stochastic but restricted to $\mathcal { D } _ { \eta } ^ { \beta , \beta ^ { \prime } } L _ { \infty }$ , compared to the rough SDE case where coefficients are assumed to be in $\mathbf { D } _ { \eta } ^ { \beta , \beta ^ { \prime } } L _ { \infty }$ .

Corollary 3.6. Let $( F , F ^ { \prime } ) \in \mathcal { D } _ { \eta } ^ { \beta , \beta ^ { \prime } } L _ { \infty }$ with $\beta \in ( { \frac { 1 } { 4 } } , \alpha ] , \ \beta ^ { \prime } \in ( 0 , \beta ]$ , and $\alpha + \beta + \beta ^ { \prime } > 1$ . Let $b : [ 0 , T ] \times$ $\Omega \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }  \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }$ be a progressively measurable vector field such that almost surely for any $( t , x , \bar { x } ) \in [ 0 , T ] \times$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }$ ,

$$| b (t, \omega , x) | \lesssim 1 + | x |\left| b (t, \omega , x) - b (t, \omega , \bar {x}) \right| \lesssim | x - \bar {x} |.$$

Then for any $\xi \in L _ { \infty }$ , there exists a unique solution X with $( X , F X ) \in \mathcal { D } _ { \eta } ^ { \alpha , \beta } L _ { \infty }$ to the RDE

$$X _ {t} = \xi + \int_ {0} ^ {t} b _ {r} (X _ {r}) d r + \int_ {0} ^ {t} F _ {r} X _ {r} d \eta_ {r}. \tag {3.36}$$

In particular, X is uniformly bounded.

3.2. Itˆo-Lyons continuity. The following proposition establishes the continuity of solutions with respect to the parameters of the equation and the driving rough path. This result will later be refined for the case of η-dependent parameters.
