(i). For any $\pmb { \eta } \in \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha } , ( b ( \cdot , \pmb { \eta } ) , \sigma ( \cdot , \pmb { \eta } ) , F ( \cdot , \pmb { \eta } ) , F ^ { \prime } ( \cdot , \pmb { \eta } ) , f ( \cdot , \pmb { \eta } ) , f ^ { \prime } ( \cdot , \pmb { \eta } ) )$ satisfies Assumption 3.2. Moreover, $( b , \sigma ) ( \cdot , \mathbf { 0 } )$ satisfies (3.2) with some $( K ^ { b , 0 } , K ^ { \sigma , 0 } ) \in H ^ { m , n ^ { b } } \times H ^ { m , n ^ { \sigma } }$ .   
(ii). There exists a modulus function (i.e. an increasing function which is continuous at zero with initial value zero) $\Psi : [ 0 , \infty )  [ 0 , \infty )$ , such that for any $( t , \omega , x ) \in [ 0 , T ] \times \Omega \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } } , \ \varphi \in \{ b , \sigma \}$ , and any $\eta , \bar { \eta } \in \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha }$ ,

$$\left| \varphi (t, \omega , x, \boldsymbol {\eta}) - \varphi (t, \omega , x, \bar {\boldsymbol {\eta}}) \right| \lesssim \Psi (\rho_ {\alpha} (\boldsymbol {\eta}, \bar {\boldsymbol {\eta}}) + | \eta_ {0} - \bar {\eta} _ {0} |); \tag {3.49}d _ {\eta , \bar {\eta}, \beta , \beta^ {\prime}, \infty} ((F, F ^ {\prime}) (\boldsymbol {\eta}), (F, F ^ {\prime}) (\bar {\boldsymbol {\eta}})) + d _ {\eta , \bar {\eta}, \beta , \beta^ {\prime}, m} ((f, f ^ {\prime}) (\boldsymbol {\eta}), (f, f ^ {\prime}) (\bar {\boldsymbol {\eta}})) \lesssim \Psi (\rho_ {\alpha} (\boldsymbol {\eta}, \bar {\boldsymbol {\eta}}) + | \eta_ {0} - \bar {\eta} _ {0} |). \tag {3.50}$$

Example 3.12. The controlled rough paths $( F , F ^ { \prime } ) , ( f , f ^ { \prime } )$ introduced in Example 3.3 satisfy the above condition. $I f G : \mathbb { R }  \mathbb { R }$ is a bounded smooth function as in Example $\ 3 . 3 \ ( i ) _ { ; }$ , and $( F , F ^ { \prime } ) ( t , \pmb { \eta } ) : = ( G ( \eta _ { t } ) , D _ { x } G ( \eta _ { t } ) )$ , a standard computation shows that $( F , F ^ { \prime } )$ satisfies (3.50).

The following corollary is a direct consequence of Proposition 3.7.

Corollary 3.13. Suppose that Assumption 3.11 holds. Let $X ^ { \eta }$ be the solution to (3.1) driven by $\pmb { \eta } \in \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha }$ . Then the mapping $X ^ { \eta } : \mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha }  S ^ { m }$ is continuous. In particular, the function

$$J (\boldsymbol {\eta}) := \mathbb {E} \left[ g (X _ {T} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}}) + \int_ {0} ^ {T} h _ {r} (X _ {r} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}}) d r \right]$$

is continuous on $\mathcal { C } ^ { \alpha }$ if the functions $g : \Omega \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }  \mathbb { R } , h : [ 0 , T ] \times \Omega \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }  \mathbb { R }$ are such that $h ( \cdot , x ) \in$ $H ^ { 1 } ( [ 0 , T ] ; \mathbb { R } ) , g ( x ) \in { \dot { L } } ^ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ for any $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }$ , and $( h , g ) ( t , \cdot )$ is locally Lipschitz continuous in the sense that there exists a constant $C > 0$ such that for any $t \in [ 0 , T ] , x , y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { X } }$ ,

$$| g (x) - g (y) | + | h (t, x) - h (t, y) | < C (1 + | x | + | y |) | x - y |, \quad a. s.$$
