# A. On the price impact and the resilience

In this section we comment on our set-up in Section 2. We first justify our assumption of a symmetric price impact by the following example.

Example A.1. Let $\widetilde { \gamma } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ be non-symmetric; without loss of generality, assume that $\widetilde { \gamma } _ { 1 , 2 } \neq \widetilde { \gamma } _ { 2 , 1 }$ e1. Moreover, let $d = 0 = x$ . We show that in this setting we can produce e earbitrarily large negative costs in (2). The approach is to, for $N \in  { \mathbb { N } }$ , quickly execute the following sequence of trades:

1. Buy N shares in the first asset.   
2. Buy (or sell) one share in the second asset.   
3. Sell N shares in the first asset.   
4. Sell (or buy) one share in the second asset.

Denote for $j \in \{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ by $\boldsymbol { e } _ { j } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ the j-th unit vector in $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . Le t

$$a = \mathrm{sgn} (e _ {1} ^ {\top} (\widetilde {\gamma} - \widetilde {\gamma} ^ {\top}) e _ {2}).$$

For every $N \in \mathbb { N } , h \in ( 0 , T / 3 ]$ let $X ^ { h , N } = ( X ^ { h , N } ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ be defined by $X ^ { h , N } ( 0 - ) = 0$ and

$$X ^ {h, N} (s) = N e _ {1} 1 _ {[ 0, T ]} (s) + a e _ {2} 1 _ {[ h, T ]} (s) - N e _ {1} 1 _ {[ 2 h, T ]} (s) - a e _ {2} 1 _ {[ 3 h, T ]} (s), \quad s \in [ 0, T ].$$

Note that these are càdlàg functions of finite variation. For every $N \in \mathbb { N } , h \in ( 0 , T / 3 ]$ it follows from, for example, Remark 2.3 (note that Remark 2.3 is still valid with γ replaced by γ) that the process $D ^ { h , N } = ( D ^ { h , N } ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ associated to $X ^ { h , N }$ via (1) is given by $D ^ { h , N } ( 0 - ) = 0$ and

$$D ^ {h, N} (s) = \nu^ {- 1} (s) \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {3} \nu (k h) \widetilde {\gamma} \Delta X ^ {h, N} (k h) 1 _ {[ k h, T ]} (s), \quad s \in [ 0, T ].$$

Next, note that it holds for all $N \in \mathbb { N } , h \in ( 0 , T / 3 ]$ that

$$
\begin{array}{l} \int_ {[ 0, T ]} (D ^ {h, N} (s -)) ^ {\top} d X ^ {h, N} (s) + \frac {1}{2} \int_ {[ 0, T ]} (\Delta X ^ {h, N} (s)) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\gamma} d X ^ {h, N} (s) \\ = \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {3} \left(\left(D ^ {h, N} (k h -)\right) ^ {\top} \Delta X ^ {h, N} (k h) + \frac {1}{2} \left(\Delta X ^ {h, N} (k h)\right) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\gamma} \Delta X ^ {h, N} (k h)\right) \\ = \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {3} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {j - 1} (\Delta (X ^ {h, N} (k h)) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\gamma} ^ {\top} (\nu (k h)) ^ {\top} (\nu^ {- 1} (j h)) ^ {\top} \Delta X ^ {h, N} (j h) \tag {A.1} \\ + \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {3} (\Delta X ^ {h, N} (j h)) ^ {\top} \widetilde {\gamma} \Delta X ^ {h, N} (j h). \\ \end{array}
$$
