In this way, $V _ { q }$ introduces a rotation to the agent state so that the original task goal is virtually deviated and thus helps to solve the deadlock problem. With this, we further integrate our deadlock indicator function with the $\ddot { V }$ and $V _ { q }$ to construct our CLF constraint that drives the agent toward its goal with adaptive deadlock resolution as follows.

$$(1 - \zeta_ {i} (R _ {i})) (\dot {V} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \mathbf {u} _ {i}) + \gamma (V (\mathbf {x} _ {i}))) +\zeta_ {i} (R _ {i}) (\dot {V} _ {q} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \omega_ {i}, \mathbf {u} _ {i}) + \gamma (V _ {q} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i}))) \leq \delta_ {i} \tag {12}$$

Remark 1. By integrating our deadlock indicator function into the constraint to formulate a CLF constraint, we dynamically adjust the task function as needed. Specifically, when $\zeta _ { i } ( R _ { i } ) \to 0 )$ , Eq. (12) simplifies to Eq. (6), which prioritizes task execution as the agent is confident that it is not at risk of encountering deadlocks. When $\zeta _ { i } ( R _ { i } ) \in ( 0 , 1 ]$ , Eq. (12) enforces the agent to deviate from its original task goal.

Secondly, one necessary condition for the boundary equilibria condition in Eq. (8) is that the vectors $f , G \nabla V _ { q }$ and $G \nabla _ { \mathbf { x } _ { i } } h _ { i j }$ are simultaneously collinear, i.e., these vectors are parallel. We follow [14] to use the positive semi-definite function $\mathcal { D } _ { i j }$ to evaluate the proximity of the system state from the collinearity condition.

$$\mathcal {D} _ {i j} (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i}) = \frac {1}{2} \nabla V _ {q} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i}) ^ {T} G \left(\mathcal {P} _ {f} + \mathcal {P} _ {G \nabla_ {\mathbf {x} _ {i}} h _ {i j}}\right) G \nabla V _ {q} (\mathbf {x} _ {i}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i})$$

where P is a scaled orthogonal projection operator. For a vector $v \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , \mathcal { P } _ { v } = | | v | | ^ { 2 } \mathbf { I } - v v ^ { T } \in \mathbf { \bar { \mathbb { R } } } ^ { n \times n }$ . In this way, the necessary condition for the boundary equilibria condition, i.e., the vectors $f , G \nabla V _ { q }$ and $G \nabla _ { { \bf x } _ { i } } h _ { i j }$ are simultaneously collinear and thus become $\mathcal { D } _ { i j } = 0$ . To avoid such condition, we use the auxiliary CBF hD from [14] to enforce $\mathcal { D } _ { i j } > 0$ .

$$h _ {\mathcal {D} _ {i j}} (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i}) = \psi (h _ {i j} (\mathbf {x})) (\mathcal {D} _ {i j} (\mathbf {x}, \mathbf {Q} _ {i}) - \epsilon) \tag {13}$$
