# 4.3. Examples

We can now use Corollary 4.7 to study optimal strategies in some examples. Note that additional content and figures can be found in Section C.

First, we observe that if $d = \gamma ( 0 ) x$ or $\rho \equiv 0$ , then the naive strategy to close all positions immediately is optimal.

Lemma 4.9. Assume that $\xi = 0$ and $\zeta = 0$ . Let Assumption 4.2 and Assumption $4 . 3$ be in force. $I f d = \gamma ( 0 ) x$ or $\rho \equiv 0$ , then $X ^ { * } ( 0 - ) = x , X ^ { * } ( s ) = 0 , s \in [ 0 , T ]$ , is the optimal strategy in $\mathcal { A } ^ { p m } \ f o r \ J ^ { p m }$ and the optimal strategy in $\mathcal { A } ^ { f v }$ for $J ^ { f v }$ .

We next turn to a setting with constant $\gamma$ and $\rho .$ . Note that the model in Obizhaeva & Wang [46] consists of a single asset with constant price impact and constant resilience. Our framework developed in this paper allows to consider a multi-asset variant of that model where both the price impact and the resilience are matrices that do not need to be diagonal, that is, we include possible cross-effects between the assets. More specifically, we consider the following subsetting of Section 2.2.

Setting 4.10. Let $\xi = 0 , \zeta = 0 , \sigma = 0 , \mu = 0$ , and $\Xi = 0$ . Hence, we have that $\lambda _ { j } \equiv \lambda _ { j } ( 0 )$ for all $j \in \{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ , and $\gamma = O ^ { \intercal } \lambda O$ is a deterministic matrix in $\mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ . We choose $\rho \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n } \backslash \{ 0 \}$ to be a deterministic matrix, too. Let Assumption 4.2 be in force. Furthermore, assume that d $\neq \gamma ( 0 ) x$ .

In Remark C.2 in the appendix we provide sufficient conditions which ensure that Assumption 4.3 in Setting 4.10 $( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \kappa \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n } )$ is satisfied, using Conley et al. [24, Theorem 2.1]. Observe that in Setting 4.10 it holds for all $k \in \{ 1 , \ldots , m \}$ that $\mathcal { A } \equiv$ $0 , \ \mathcal { B } \equiv - \gamma ^ { - \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \rho \gamma ^ { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } , \ \mathcal { C } ^ { k } \equiv 0 , \ \mathcal { Q } \equiv 0$ , and $\mathcal { R } = \kappa$ . By solving the BSDE (33) and the SDE (36), we obtain from Corollary 4.7 the optimal strategy in the multi-asset Obizhaeva–Wang model.

Corollary 4.11. Assume Setting 4.10 and that $\kappa \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ is satisfied. Then, $( \mathcal { Y } , \mathcal { Z } )$ given by $\mathcal { Z } = 0$ and
