# IV. SIMULATION

To evaluate the functionality of SHS-based contingency detection, we simulate a sample distribution system setup similar to that described in [17], as illustrated in Fig. 3. It is an equivalent model of a distribution system with six dynamic nodes. The total demand of the system is 237 MVA. The system has 3 identical PV-B systems across buses $4 , 5 .$ , and 6 with 100 MVA capacity. Details of the PV-B units and distribution network parameters are presented in Table I. The load parameters are specified in Table II. This simulation is developed within the MATLAB environment, utilizing the SHS model detailed in Section III. The system is segmented into three parts: $\mathcal { M } _ { 1 } , \mathcal { M } _ { 2 }$ , and $\mathcal { M } _ { 3 }$ , with each PV-B modeled as a 6th $6 ^ { t h }$ order system, each distribution network line and auxiliary connection as $2 ^ { n d }$ order, and each load bus as a $4 ^ { t h }$ order system. Consequently, the system orders for $\mathcal { M } _ { 1 } , \mathcal { M } _ { 2 }$ , and $\mathcal { M } _ { 3 }$ are 18, 20, and 18, respectively.

Due to space constraints, our analysis concentrates on the segment $\mathcal { M } _ { 1 }$ for distributed monitoring under normal operations and three distinct contingency scenarios are considered as follows: 1. short circuit on Line 14, 2. single line outage on Line 14, and 3. line disconnection on Line 14. Thus, $\mathcal { S } = \{ \alpha _ { 0 } , \alpha _ { 1 } , \alpha _ { 2 } , \alpha _ { 3 } \}$ where $\alpha _ { 0 }$ indicates the normal operation; $\alpha _ { 1 } , \alpha _ { 2 } .$ , and $\alpha _ { 3 }$ represent the contingency scenarios.

TABLE II LOAD PARAMETERS
