(f)   
Fig. 1: Error and phase-portrait profile for DC Motor with Load (12): (a) relative error in matrix A; (b) relative error in matrix B; (c) optimal cost achieved by MPC; (d)–(f) phase portrait from regulation MPC (with model identified from data snapshots quantized by 50 independent dither signal realization) for word lengths b = 2 4 6 respectively.

For the training phase, the initial conditions are generated randomly with uniform distribution in the unit cube $[ - 1 , 1 ] ^ { 3 }$ . ,The control input for each trajectory is chosen to be a uniformly distributed random signal on [−1 1]2. The system is ,simulated for 200 trajectories over 1000 sampling periods (i.e., conds per trajectory). Relative 2-norm error for different word-length are shown in Fig. 1( $\frac { \lVert A - \hat { A } \rVert } { \lVert A \rVert }$ and. The $\frac { \| B - \hat { B } \| } { \| B \| }$ identified [Aˆ $\hat { B } ]$ is then used to drive $x _ { 0 } = [ 1 0 0 ] ^ { \top }$ to origin ,by solving the MPC problem (2) with $Q = \mathrm { d i a g } ( [ 1 \ 0 . 1 \ 0 . 1 ] )$ , $R = \mathrm { d i a g ( [ 1 ~ 1 ] ) }$ . .). The minimum MPC costs that are achieved for different word-lengths are demonstrated in Fig. 1(c). Fig. 1(d)– (f) show the phase-portrait of controlled state-trajectories for different word-lengths. Notice that the logarithmic errors in A and B matrices decrease linearly with the word-length b with a slope of −0 301 and −0 322. Note that, for a finite-data .regime, the error should be $O ( \epsilon ) \approx k \epsilon = k ( x _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } - x _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ) / 2 ^ { b }$ ϵ ϵ /for some constant k as  → 0, i.e., the logarithm of the error ϵshould decrease linearly with b at a slope of − log 2 = −0 301. .It is also evident that the MPC Cost decreases, and the trajectories converge better with higher word-length b, i.e., lower quantization resolution , as predicted analytically.
