where $L _ { f } h _ { i j } ( \mathbf { x } ) ~ = ~ \nabla _ { \mathbf { x } _ { i } } h _ { i j } ^ { T } ( \mathbf { x } ) f ( \mathbf { x } _ { i } )$ and $L _ { g } h _ { i j } ( { \bf x } ) =$ $\nabla _ { \mathbf x _ { i } } h _ { i j } ^ { T } ( \mathbf x ) \dot { g } ( \dot { \mathbf x _ { i } } )$ , respectively. $W _ { i } \in ( 0 , 1 )$ is Pairwise Responsibility Weight with $W _ { i } + W _ { j } = 1$ .

Based on the simplest form of the constraint-driven control [18], [21] for a decentralized multi-agent system in Eq. (1) as well as the given CLF and CBF in Lemma 1 and Lemma 2, we can define the control objective of stabilizing the system and avoiding inter-robot collisions for agent i as the following Quadratic Programming (QP) problem:

$$\min _ {(\mathbf {u} _ {i}, \delta_ {i}) \in \mathbb {R} ^ {m + 1}} \| \mathbf {u} _ {i} \| ^ {2} + p \delta_ {i} ^ {2} \tag {6}\text { s.t. } \quad L _ {f} V (\mathbf {x} _ {i}) + L _ {g} V (\mathbf {x} _ {i}) \mathbf {u} _ {i} \leq - \gamma (V (\mathbf {x} _ {i})) + \delta_ {i} \tag {CLF}L _ {f} h _ {i j} (\mathbf {x}) + L _ {g} h _ {i j} (\mathbf {x}) \mathbf {u} _ {i} \geq - W _ {i} \alpha (h _ {i j} (\mathbf {x})), \forall j \neq i \tag {CBF}$$

where $p > 0$ and $\delta _ { i } \in \mathbb { R }$ is the relaxation slack variable which is used to soften the CLF constraints and make the QP feasible [14]. The cost function aims to minimize the agent’s control effort expended by the system. The CLF constraint is designed to move the agent toward its task-related goal, while the CBF constraint is for regulating the controller to keep the system safe, e.g., free from collisions.

However, following a similar analysis as [14] for the closed-loop control framework in Eq. (6), there exist closedloop equilibria for the system, including the undesirable ones leading to deadlocks, e.g., agents may be asymptotically stable at states that prevent them from converging to the task-prescribed goals. We summarize the equilibria and the conditions in the following lemma1.

Lemma 3. [Summarized from [14]] For the control framework in Eq. (6) for the decentralized multi-agent system, the closed-loop equilibrium points set is given by ${ \boldsymbol { s } } \ =$ $S _ { \mathrm { i n t } } \bigcup S _ { \partial \mathcal { H } _ { i j } } ,$ where
