# I. INTRODUCTION

The consensus problem in multi-agent systems finds numerous applications from control to optimization [1], [2]. However, the performance of consensus in general degrades in the presence of misbehaving agents that share faulty or incorrect information. Resilient consensus has therefore been extensively studied [3]–[7]. In particular, the Weighted Mean-Subsequence-Reduced (W-MSR) algorithm was introduced in [3] to guarantee consensus among non-misbehaving or normal agents despite the presence of misbehaving agents.

The challenge of using W-MSR algorithm lies in its reliance on complex global topological network resilience properties, such as r-robustness and (r, s)-robustness [3]. These properties are inherently combinatorial, making them difficult to compute online [8]. Moreover, in many multirobot applications, links between robots are formed if their relative distances are within a threshold, which further complicates the practical implementation of these network properties in real-time operation.

To implement these network properties, [9], [10] enforce local inter-robot connectivity by maintaining predetermined topologies with known resilience levels. This approach eliminates the need for continuous resilience computation. However, its limitation is that the imposed connectivity constraints induce fixed topologies, making it impractical in dynamic or constrained environments where robots need flexible movements. There is earlier work considering the maintenance of network resilience without relying on fixed topologies [9], [11]–[15], but these resilience-aware approaches rely on global state knowledge (i.e., states of all robots). To obtain global state knowledge, each robot needs to accurately estimate it based on the information from its neighbor robots, which becomes challenging as information being shared is unreliable in adversarial settings.
