Given the observations of the system trajectory, the inverse optimal control provides an effective paradigm to infer the objective functions that determine the control task [19]. In this direction, the seminal work [20] proposed the inverse optimality problem for linear systems. Then, numerous works have been developed based on different system models and prior assumptions, e.g., linear [21] or nonlinear systems [22], [23]. Specifically, the works [24]–[26] investigate the popular linear quadratic (LQ) regulator cases, where the feedback gain matrix or the optimal inputs are required to be given. The recent works [27], [28] have further shown that the objective function can be recovered by merely using multiple observation trajectories. Despite the fruitful results, we observe that few works have considered the inverse optimal control of networked dynamical systems, where the topology structure will pose new challenges to the algorithm design.

Note that the network topology and node dynamics intertwine in an NDS. Towards the former aspect, numerous methods have been developed on topology identification in the literature, e.g., by graph signal processing [29], vector autoregression [30], compressed sensing [31], excitation design [32], etc. Note that in most topology inference literature, the nodal dynamics are assumed as prior knowledge, e.g., see [6], [33], [34]. A few works have also investigated the algorithm design for joint inference situations. For example, [35] investigates how to jointly estimate the network topology and the parameters of nodal dynamics from perturbed stationary points, and [36] utilize the backpropagation through time algorithm to construct a neural network, which is further used to infer the topology structure and nodal dynamics. The nodal dynamics functions in these works can be nonlinear, but the nodal states are generally one-dimensional. In contrast, this work focuses on the linear high-dimensional cases for nodal dynamics, which will introduce another unknown feedback gain matrix in the inference process. How to overcome the influence of this component needs to be further addressed.
