Compared to the steady-state FD-WFL (Lemma 1), the FD-WFL in Theorem 1 requires additional data in the form of $\{ \hat { \Omega } _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } }$ (which we can compute directly from $\{ \hat { \omega } _ { k } ^ { M } \} _ { k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } } )$ and a stronger PE condition on $\hat { V } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } =$ $\{ ( \hat { U } _ { k } , \hat { \Omega } _ { k } ) \} _ { k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } }$ instead of $\hat { U } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] }$ alone. Note that $\hat { V } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } ~ = ~ \{ ( \hat { U } _ { k } , \hat { \Omega } _ { k } ) \} _ { k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } }$ being PE of order L requires that $2 M - 1 \geqslant L ( n _ { u } + 1 )$ , while $\hat { U } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] }$ itself being PE of order L would only require that $2 M - 1 \geqslant$ $L n _ { u }$ . In particular, we achieve this stronger PE condition by including $L ^ { \prime } \geqslant \lceil L / 2 \rceil$ additional frequencies in our data (i.e., increasing M by $L ^ { \prime } )$ , and setting $\hat { U } _ { k } = 0$ at $L ^ { \prime }$ of those frequencies (while still measuring $\hat { Y } _ { k } )$ as also illustrated in Section VI. Interestingly, when dealing with non-steady-state time-domain data, TD-WFL does not require additional data nor a stronger PE condition. Compared to time-domain data, however, frequency-domain data is often denser in information and, as such, the use of non-steady-state frequencydomain data can still be more efficient than time-domain data.

Remark 2. Analogous to the extensions to multiple data sets presented in [8, Theorem 2] for time-domain data and [23, Theorem 2] for steady-state frequency-domain data, Theorem 1 can be extended to allow for multiple data sets. Doing so, enables us to utilize multiple input spectra $\hat { U } _ { k }$ corresponding to the same frequency $\hat { \omega } _ { k } ^ { M } , ~ k \in \mathbb { Z } _ { [ 0 , M - 1 ] } ,$ which is particularly useful when dealing with multi-input multi-output systems. In this case, it is generally not true that all data sets share common initial states $x _ { 0 }$ and terminal states $x _ { 2 M }$ . However, this can be taken into account as follows. Let $E \ \in \ \mathbb { Z } _ { \geqslant 1 }$ 1 denote the number of data sets, then the extension to multiple data sets can be obtained by applying [23, Theorem 2] to the augmented system $\tilde { \Sigma }$ with $v _ { k } = ( u _ { k } , w _ { k } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } + E }$ and

$$\tilde {B} = \left[ B x _ {0} ^ {1} - x _ {2 M} ^ {1} \dots x _ {0} ^ {E} - x _ {2 M} ^ {E} \right],$$

where $x _ { 0 } ^ { e }$ and $x _ { 2 M } ^ { e }$ denote, respectively, the initial and terminal state corresponding to the e-th data set.
