In this paper, we focus on the design of distributed controllers based on Control Barrier Functions (CBFs) [16], where each robot computes its control inputs using locallyavailable information only, so that it maintains a resilient structure and ensures resilient consensus without fixed topologies. The problem of developing CBF-based controllers for improving or maintaining resilience of multirobot networks without relying on fixed network topologies has been studied in [11], [13]–[15]. However, these approaches take a centralized CBF form, or assume that each robot can accurately estimate the global state knowledge and the control actions of all other robots at every time instant. These assumptions are unrealistic in complex and adversarial networks, and difficult to resolve due to the global nature of the resilience properties.

To address these problems, the main contribution of this paper is twofold. We develop a sufficient condition for resilient consensus in time-varying networks based only on the degree (i.e., the number of neighbors) of normal agents. While [7] establishes similar conditions based on degree of all agents in continuous-time consensus dynamics, our condition applies to discrete-time dynamics and specifically to the W-MSR algorithm. Then, leveraging this condition, we design a distributed controller that maintains each normal robot’s degree above a threshold while preventing collisions. We prove that our controller guarantees resilience and safety using only local information under certain assumptions. In contrast to earlier work [11]–[14], our approach (a) focuses on local connectivity of normal agents rather than enforcing global resilience properties, (b) eliminates reliance on potentially unreliable global state estimation, and (c) explicitly accounts for inter-agent collisions, which is overlooked in previous CBF-based approaches [11], [13], [14], [17]–[19].

Organization: In Section II, we introduce the notation, preliminaries, and the problem statement. In Section III we present a sufficient condition for resilient consensus, and in Section IV we design a distributed CBF-based controller for resilience. Simulation results evaluate our approach in Section V, while Section VI concludes our work.
