On optimality of adaptive linear-quadratic regulators.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.10749, 2018b.
Charles Fefferman, Bernat Guill´en Pegueroles, Clarence W Rowley, and Melanie Weber.
Optimal control with learning on the fly: a toy problem.
Revista matem´atica iberoamericana, 38(1):175–187, 2021.

Jaime F Fisac, Anayo K Akametalu, Melanie N Zeilinger, Shahab Kaynama, Jeremy Gillula, and Claire J Tomlin.
A general safety framework for learning-based control in uncertain robotic systems.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 64(7):2737–2752, 2018.
Nathan Fulton and Andr´e Platzer.
Safe reinforcement learning via formal methods: Toward safe control through proof and learning.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 32, 2018.
Milan Ganai, Zheng Gong, Chenning Yu, Sylvia Herbert, and Sicun Gao.
Iterative reachability estimation for safe reinforcement learning.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
Kunal Garg, Songyuan Zhang, Oswin So, Charles Dawson, and Chuchu Fan.
Learning safe control for multi-robot systems: Methods, verification, and open challenges.
Annual Reviews in Control, 57:100948, 2024.
Shangding Gu, Long Yang, Yali Du, Guang Chen, Florian Walter, Jun Wang, and Alois Knoll.
A review of safe reinforcement learning: Methods, theory and applications.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.10330, 2022.
Elad Hazan and Karan Singh.
Introduction to online nonstochastic control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09619, 2022.
Mohammad Khosravi and Roy S Smith.
Nonlinear system identification with prior knowledge on the region of attraction.
IEEE Control Systems Letters, 5(3):1091–1096, 2020.
Johannes K¨ohler, Elisa Andina, Raffaele Soloperto, Matthias A M¨uller, and Frank Allg¨ower.
Linear robust adaptive model predictive control: Computational complexity and conservatism.
In 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 1383–1388.
IEEE, 2019.
Bruce Lee, Anders Rantzer, and Nikolai Matni.
Nonasymptotic regret analysis of adaptive linear quadratic control with model misspecification.
In 6th Annual Learning for Dynamics & Control Conference, pages 980–992.
PMLR, 2024.
Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter Abbeel.
End-to-end training of deep visuomotor policies.
The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(1):1334–1373, 2016.
Yingying Li, Subhro Das, and Na Li.
Online optimal control with affine constraints.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, pages 8527– 8537, 2021a.
Yingying Li, Subhro Das, Jeff Shamma, and Na Li.
