# 2.3 Baseline Class

In both Li et al. [2021b] and Dean et al. [2019], the regret baseline for the $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( T ^ { 2 / 3 } )$ results is the total cost of the best stationary linear controller of the form $u _ { t } = - K x _ { t }$ that is safe for $\theta ^ { * }$ with probability 1. We will refer to the class of stationary linear controllers that are safe for $\theta ^ { * }$ with probability 1 as the class of safe linear controllers. Since not all linear controllers are safe for dynamics $\theta ^ { * }$ , this is restricted to K that will maintain safety for $\theta ^ { * }$ for any realization of the noise, and therefore can be a very weak baseline. For example, when $D _ { \mathrm { U } }$ and $D _ { \mathrm { { L } } }$ are not symmetric, the best linear controller must still behave symmetrically. Symmetric behavior may be far from optimal for $D _ { \mathrm { U } }$ and $D _ { \mathrm { { L } } }$ that are not symmetric, yet linear controllers lack the flexibility to behave asymmetrically. As another example, when the noise distribution is unbounded, there only exists a single safe linear controller (the $\begin{array} { r } { K = \frac { a ^ { * } } { b ^ { * } } } \end{array}$ controller).

To evaluate our algorithm, we instead use the baseline of the class of truncated linear controllers. The class of truncated linear controllers for dynamics $\theta = ( a , b ) \in \Theta$ is defined as $\mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { t r } } ^ { \theta } = \{ C _ { K } ^ { \theta } \} _ { K \in [ \frac { a - 1 } { b } , \frac { a } { b } ] }$ , where $C _ { K } ^ { \theta }$ is defined as

$$
C _ {K} ^ {\theta} (x) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} - K x & \text {if} D _ {\mathrm{L}} ^ {\mathbb {E} [ x ]} \leq (a - b K) x \leq D _ {\mathrm{U}} ^ {\mathbb {E} [ x ]} \\ \frac {D _ {\mathrm{U}} ^ {\mathbb {E} [ x ]} - a x}{b} & \text {if} (a - b K) x > D _ {\mathrm{U}} ^ {\mathbb {E} [ x ]} \\ \frac {D _ {\mathrm{L}} ^ {\mathbb {E} [ x ]} - a x}{b} & \text {if} (a - b K) x <   D _ {\mathrm{L}} ^ {\mathbb {E} [ x ]}. \end{array} \right. \tag {3}
$$
