# Inverse Inference on Cooperative Control of Networked Dynamical Systems

Yushan Li†, Jianping He‡, and Dimos V. Dimarogonas†

Abstract—Recent years have witnessed the rapid advancement of understanding the control mechanism of networked dynamical systems (NDSs), which are governed by components such as nodal dynamics and topology. This paper reveals that the critical components in continuous-time state feedback cooperative control of NDSs can be inferred merely from discrete observations. In particular, we advocate a bi-level inference framework to estimate the global closed-loop system and extract the components, respectively. The novelty lies in bridging the gap from discrete observations to the continuous-time model and effectively decoupling the concerned components. Specifically, in the first level, we design a causality-based estimator for the discretetime closed-loop system matrix, which can achieve asymptotically unbiased performance when the NDS is stable. In the second level, we introduce a matrix logarithm based method to recover the continuous-time counterpart matrix, providing new sampling period guarantees and establishing the recovery error bound. By utilizing graph properties of the NDS, we develop least square based procedures to decouple the concerned components with up to a scalar ambiguity. Furthermore, we employ inverse optimal control techniques to reconstruct the objective function driving the control process, deriving necessary conditions for the solutions. Numerical simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

Index Terms—Networked dynamical systems, network inference, cooperative control, topology identification.
