# A. Conditions of Optimal LQ Control for NDSs

First, recall that the nodal dynamics model is described by (1). By treating all nodes as a whole system with its own dynamics, the global model can be written

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} = (I _ {N} \otimes A) x + (I _ {N} \otimes B) u \triangleq \tilde {A} x + \tilde {B} u \\ u = - (L \otimes K) x \triangleq - \tilde {K} x \end{array} , \right. \tag {73}
$$

where $\tilde { A }$ and $\tilde { B }$ are the global system matrices, and $\tilde { K }$ is the global state feedback gain matrix. From the LQ control perspective, this state feedback control can be formulated as minimizing the following cost

$$J = \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} \left(x ^ {\intercal} Q x + u ^ {\intercal} R u\right) d t, \tag {74}$$

where $Q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N n \times N n }$ is a positive semi-definite (PSD) matrix, and $\textbf { \textit { R } } \in \mathrm { ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { \textit { N m } \times N m } ~ }$ is a positive definite (PD) matrix. Correspondingly, the optimal control law of (74) is given by

$$u = - \tilde {K} x = - R ^ {- 1} \tilde {B} ^ {\intercal} P x, \tag {75}$$

where $P \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N n \times N n }$ is the unique solution of the following algebraic Riccatti equation (ARE)

$$\tilde {A} ^ {\intercal} P + P \tilde {A} - P \tilde {B} R ^ {- 1} \tilde {B} ^ {\intercal} P + Q = \mathbf {0}. \tag {76}$$

Note that the formulation (75)-(76) is a forward result of LQ control design given the cost function. Many existing works have investigated the optimal cooperative control for NDSs, e.g., see [37], [38]. Since this point is not the focus of our work, here we directly consider that K˜ is optimal for (74).

To inversely determine the cost matrices Q and R from the system dynamics matrices and the feedback gain, the problem will become extremely difficult because the parameters of the LQ cost highly depend on the coupled nodal dynamics and the topology. More specifically, it follows from (73) and (75) that the global feedback gain should simultaneously satisfy $\left( L \otimes K \right) ^ { \bar { } } = \tilde { K } = R ^ { - 1 } \tilde { B ^ { \intercal } } P$ , which indicates that the cost matrices have certain structure. We next show some properties that the cost matrices should satisfy due to the coupling nature.

Lemma 2. Considering that (75) is the optimal control for the LQ problem (74), it is necessary that the matrices Q and $P$ should satisfy
