# III. EXTENDED KALMAN FILTER FOR QUADROTOR UAVS

In this section, we present a strategy to estimate UAV’s system states using EKF. The nonlinear model of the UAVs with the presence of noises can be written as:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\mathbf {X}} (t) = \mathbf {F} (\mathbf {X} (t), \mathbf {U} (t)) + \mathbf {W} (t) \\ \mathbf {Y} (t) = \mathbf {C} (\mathbf {X} (t)) + \mathbf {H} (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {16}
$$

where ${ \bf X } ( t ) ~ = ~ [ x , y , z , \phi , \theta , \psi , \dot { x } , \dot { y } , \dot { z } , \dot { \phi } , \dot { \theta } , \dot { \psi } ] ^ { T }$ is the system state, $\begin{array} { r l r } { { \bf U } ( t ) } & { { } = } & { [ F _ { x } , C _ { 1 } , C _ { 2 } , C _ { 3 } ] ^ { T } } \end{array}$ is control input, $\mathbf { F } ( \mathbf { X } ( t ) , \mathbf { U } ( t ) )$ denote the nonlinear system function which arecalculated from Eq. (9) - Eq. (14), $\mathbf { C } ( \mathbf { X } ( t ) ) = \mathbf { X } ( t )$ is output function, and $\mathbf { W } ( t ) , \mathbf { H } ( t )$ denote the total noises affected to the quadrotor UAVs. The noises functions $\mathbf { W } ( t ) , \mathbf { H } ( t )$ are considered as Gaussian function $N ( 0 , R )$ and $N ( 0 , Q )$ , respectively.

However, in order to apply this strategy, the UAVs will be linearized around the working point ${ \bf X } _ { k } .$ . The linear discrete time-varying dynamics of the UAVs is expressed as:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \Delta \mathbf {X} _ {k + 1} = \mathbf {A} \left(\mathbf {X} _ {k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \mathbf {X} _ {k} T _ {s} + \mathbf {B} \left(\mathbf {X} _ {k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \mathbf {U} _ {k} T _ {s} + \mathbf {W} (k) \\ \mathbf {Y} _ {k + 1} = \mathbf {X} _ {k + 1} + \mathbf {H} (k) \end{array} \right. \tag {17}
$$

where:

$$\Delta \mathbf {X} _ {k + 1} = \mathbf {X} _ {k + 1} - \mathbf {X} _ {k} \tag {18}\mathbf {A} (\mathbf {X} _ {k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}) = \frac {\partial \mathbf {F} (\mathbf {X} (t) , \mathbf {U} (t))}{\partial \mathbf {X} (t)} | _ {\mathbf {X} _ {k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}} \tag {19}\mathbf {B} (\mathbf {X} _ {k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}) = \frac {\partial \mathbf {F} (\mathbf {X} (t) , \mathbf {U} (t))}{\partial \mathbf {U} (t)} | \mathbf {x} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k}. \tag {20}$$

$T _ { s }$ is the sampling time, and ${ \bf W } ( k ) , { \bf H } ( k )$ are noises at sample k. The details of matrix $\mathbf { A } ( \mathbf { X } _ { k } , \mathbf { U } _ { k } ) , \mathbf { B } ( \mathbf { X } _ { k } , \mathbf { U } _ { k } )$ can be seen in the Appendix.

A state estimator based on EKF is presented as:
