# F.1 Proof of Lemma 18

proof. We will use the following equivalent version of Lemma 26 in Schiffer and Janson [2024] for Algorithm 2.

Lemma 19. Let $x _ { t } , u _ { t }$ respectively be the state and control of Calg (the controller of Algorithm 2) at time t starting at $x _ { 0 } = 0$ . Define $G _ { i } = ( x _ { 0 } , u _ { 0 } , . . . , x _ { i - 1 } , u _ { i - 1 } )$ . For constant $\gamma > 0$ , define $S _ { t }$ as

$$S _ {t} = \left\{i < t: u _ {i} = u _ {i} ^ {\text { safeU }} \text { and } \mathbb {P} (u _ {i} = u _ {i} ^ {\text { safeU}} \mid G _ {i}, E) \geq \gamma \right\}. \tag {69}$$

Then under Assumptions 1–3 and for sufficiently large $T ,$ with probability $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T )$ ,

$$\max _ {s \in [ 0: s _ {e} ]} \epsilon_ {s} \sqrt {| S _ {T _ {s}} |} = \tilde {O} _ {T} (1). \tag {70}$$

The proof of Lemma 19 can be found in Appendix G.1.

While we have not yet explained the significance of Lemma 20, we state it here because the definition of $\epsilon ^ { * }$ is needed for other definitions below.

Lemma 20. Define

$$\epsilon^ {*} := \bar {w} - \left(\frac {D _ {U}}{a ^ {*} - b ^ {*} K _ {\text { opt }} (\theta^ {*})} - D _ {U}\right). \tag {71}$$

Then event $\neg E _ { \mathrm { E 5 7 } } \cap E$ can only hold if $\epsilon ^ { * } > 0$ .

The proof of Lemma 20 can be found in Appendix G.2.

Define $\begin{array} { r } { \gamma _ { \epsilon } = \frac { \mathbb { P } _ { w \sim \mathcal { D } } \left( w \geq \bar { w } - 3 \epsilon ^ { * } / 8 \right) } { 2 } } \end{array}$ (which is a constant) and define $S _ { t } ^ { \prime }$

$$S _ {t} ^ {\prime} := \Big \{i < t: u _ {i} = u _ {i} ^ {\text { safeU }} \text { and } \mathbb {P} (u _ {i} = u _ {i} ^ {\text { safeU }} \mid G _ {i}, E) \geq \gamma_ {\epsilon} \Big \}. \tag {72}$$

Note that this is the same as the definition of $S _ { t }$ in Lemma 19 except with $\gamma = \gamma _ { \epsilon }$

Lemma 21. Under Assumptions 1–3 and $\mathit { 4 } ,$ there exists an event $E _ { \mathrm { L 2 1 } }$ such that $\mathbb { P } ( E _ { \mathrm { L 2 1 } } ) \geq$ $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T )$ and such that conditional on event $E _ { \mathrm { L 2 1 } } \cap \lnot E _ { \mathrm { E 5 7 } }$ ,

$$\max _ {s \in [ 1: s _ {e} ]} \frac {T _ {s}}{\left| S _ {T _ {s}} ^ {\prime} \right|} = \tilde {O} _ {T} (1).$$

The proof of Lemma 21 can be found in Appendix G.3.

Define $E _ { \mathrm { L 1 9 } }$ as the event that Equation (70) holds for $S _ { T _ { s } } ~ = ~ S _ { T _ { s } } ^ { \prime }$ . Then $\mathbb { P } ( E _ { \mathrm { L 1 9 } } ) ~ =$ $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T )$ by Lemma 19. By Lemma 21, conditional on event $E _ { \mathrm { L 1 9 } } \cap E _ { \mathrm { L 2 1 } } \cap \lnot E _ { \mathrm { E 5 7 } }$ ,
