The TC system works analogously to the ABS. However, we do not have direct access to the engine’s control unit and can only send a throttle command to it. This command influences the engine’s throttle valve but does not directly affect the ignition system. Consequently, in comparison to the response time of the brake actuators, the motor torque changes only slowly for an adjusted throttle target. Therefore, we transform the required drive torque reduction into an increase of the brake pressure target. While the throttle target remains at the desired value, the engine torque is superimposed with the brake torque at the wheels, allowing for rapid adjustments of the driving torque. In contrast to the ABS, we keep the maximum value constant in the TC as the velocity increases during the intervention.

Additionally, if the slip exceeds an upper threshold, slip stabilization is unlikely solely with an increased brake pressure target. In this case, we reduce the throttle target to zero.

5) Brake Pressure Controller: The measured brake pressure must closely follow the target for a good acceleration following behavior and for the ABS and TC concepts to work as intended. To improve the setpoint tracking and dynamic response of the braking actuator system, we introduce a cascaded Proportional-Integral (PI) controller. This controller is designed to track the desired brake pressure by comparing it to the measured brake pressure. The PI system is further enhanced with a smith prediction to handle feedback time delays, gain scheduling to adjust the control dynamics based on the brake pressure gradient, and an anti-wind-up mechanism.
