$$s _ {1} = c _ {z} (z _ {r} - \hat {z}) + (\dot {z} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {z}}) \tag {94}
\begin{array}{l} s _ {2} = c _ {1} (\dot {y} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {y}}) + c _ {2} (y _ {r} - \hat {y}) \\ + c _ {3} \left(\dot {\phi} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {\phi}}\right) + c _ {4} \left(\phi_ {r} - \hat {\phi}\right) \tag {95} \\ \end{array}

\begin{array}{l} s _ {3} = c _ {5} (\dot {x} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {x}}) + c _ {6} (x _ {r} - \hat {x}) \\ + c _ {7} \left(\dot {\theta} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {\theta}}\right) + c _ {8} \left(\theta_ {r} - \hat {\theta}\right) \tag {96} \\ \end{array}
s _ {4} = c _ {\psi} (\psi_ {r} - \hat {\psi}) + (\dot {\psi} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {\psi}}) \tag {97}$$

in which $\varepsilon _ { i } , \eta _ { i } ~ ( i = 1 - 4 ) , c _ { z }$ , andck $\left( k = 1 - 8 \right)$ are control parameters, and $d _ { 1 } , d _ { 2 } , d _ { 3 } , d _ { 4 }$ represent the disturbance terms and are defined as:

$$d _ {1} = K _ {d z} \dot {\hat {z}} / m \tag {98}d _ {2} = - \dot {\hat {\theta}} \dot {\hat {\psi}} (I _ {y y} - I _ {z z}) / I _ {x x} \tag {99}d _ {3} = - \dot {\hat {\psi}} \dot {\hat {\phi}} (I _ {z z} - I _ {x x}) / I _ {y y} \tag {100}d _ {4} = - \dot {\hat {\phi}} \dot {\hat {\theta}} (I _ {x x} - I _ {y y}) / I _ {z z}. \tag {101}$$

The initial position and the angle values of the UAVs are [0, 0, 0] m and [0, 0, 0] rad, respectively. The system parameters, the observer parameters, and the control parameters are listed in Table II. The simulation is performed in Matlab/Simulink 2023b with the sample time as chosen as $T _ { s } = 0 . 0 1 ( s )$ . The simulations are developed on a computer with 2.3 GHz Intel Core i7- 11800H and 16 GB RAM. In addition, the disturbances are white noises, and all of the simulations can be found on this link: https://github.com/ aralab-unr/HSMC-EKF-for-Quadrotor-UAVs. For the simulation scenario, we tested the performance of the quadrotor UAVs in three scenarios, which can be seen in Table III. Finally, the results are demonstrated in Figure 7-Figure 54. The results are shown in terms of trajectory tracking, the estimated states, and the control laws. The tracking ability and the control law following the Z-axis have shown the effectiveness of the proposed methods with the compared strategies.
