where $F : \mathbb { N } _ { 0 } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ such that $y _ { n } = x ( t _ { n } )$ . We now show that this system is input-to-state stable (ISS) [10].

Theorem 1: Consider the artificial system (46). Assume it has infinite trigger times and problem (13) has a solution at $t = t _ { 1 }$ and let Assumptions 1–4 hold. If $\tilde { V } _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ( \hat { w } ) \leq \hat { w } _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ,$ then, the artificial system is ISS.

Proof: We can always find a feasible solution of the optimization problem (13) (Lemma 3). Equation (22) together with $V _ { N } ( x ( t _ { n } ) ) \geq | | x ( t _ { n } ) | | _ { \mathbf { Q } }$ and Lemma 4 show that $V _ { N } ( y _ { n } )$ is an ISS-Lyapunov function for system (46).

Based on this, we show stability for the entire system (1).

Theorem 2: Let Assumptions 1–4 and $\hat { w } \le \hat { w } _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ hold. Assume that for all systems, the first optimization problem (13) is feasible. Then, the controlled system (1) is gISS.

Proof: Assume we have infinite trigger times. Because the artificial system (46) is ISS, there exist a KL-function $\beta$ and a K-function δ such that [10]

$$\left| \left| y _ {n} \right| \right| \leq \beta \left(\left| \left| y _ {1} \right| \right|, n\right) + \delta \left(\tilde {V} _ {\max} (\hat {w})\right). \tag {47}$$

Because γ is strictly increasing

$$V _ {N} (y _ {n}) \leq \gamma (| | y _ {n} | |) \leq \gamma (\beta (| | y _ {1} | |, n) + \delta (\tilde {V} _ {\max} (\hat {w}))). \tag {48}$$

For every $k \in \{ 0 , 1 , \cdot \cdot \cdot , t _ { n + 1 } - t _ { n } \}$ it is

$$V _ {N} (x (k | t _ {n})) \leq V _ {N} (x (0 | t _ {n})) = V _ {N} (y _ {n}), \tag {49}$$

which follows by applying equation (45) without disturbances. Further, it is

$$\lambda_ {\min} (Q) | | x (k \mid t _ {n}) | | \leq | | x (k \mid t _ {n}) | | _ {\mathrm{Q}} \leq V _ {N} (x (k \mid t _ {n})) \tag {50}$$

and for $t \leq t _ { 1 }$ (recall u $\begin{array} { r } { \mathbf { \chi } _ { \prime } ( t < t _ { 1 } ) = 0 } \end{array}$ and $t _ { 1 } \leq p - 1 )$

$$\left| \left| x (t) \right| \right| \leq \tilde {V} (\hat {w}, \left| \left| x (0) \right| \right|, t) \leq \tilde {V} (\hat {w}, \left| \left| x (0) \right| \right|, p - 1) \tag {51}$$

Applying Lemma 1 then gives with $t = k + t _ { n } , k \geq 0$
