# B. Related Works

The study of inferring the cooperative control of NDSs has a close relationship with multiple fields, including system identification, inverse optimal control, and topology inference. We briefly review the literature most related to this work as follows.

Inferring or identifying a system model from input/output data has a long history, especially for linear time-invariant systems. The basic idea is to let the systems run open-loop or excite them with inputs and use the collected to construct estimators. Numerous classic works have been devoted to the asymptotic consistency of the proposed estimators [8]. Recently, the finite time identification performance on the system model such as the Markov matrix has received considerable attention [9]–[12], which mainly depends on the tools of stochastic optimization and concentration measure (we refer to [13] for a detailed review). Note that in these works, the system implementation for identification is determined by the user to collect sufficient informative data (e.g., injecting random inputs into the system), and does not involve closedloop control with specific objectives. In addition, there is a growing number of studies focusing on “learning” a controller from the collected data without the need for system identification [14]–[16]. For example, the work [17] develops an effective data-driven resilient control scheme with the system stability guaranteed. The authors in [18] propose an online algorithm to stabilize an unknown networked linear system under communication constraints and disturbance. Concerning this direction, we observe that the focus of the aforementioned works is to construct appropriate stabilizing controllers for the unknown system, not to infer the underlying mechanism of well-designed controllers.
