# 1.1 Background and Motivation

Online reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms are powerful tools for interacting with and learning about unknown environments [Levine et al., 2016, Lillicrap et al., 2015, Tewari and Murphy, 2017]. The core idea behind many successful RL algorithms is carefully balancing exploration and exploitation. However, in many real world applications, online RL algorithms must satisfy a set of safety constraints. Importantly, these safety constraints must be satisfied even while the algorithm learns, leading to a complex interaction between safety and learning. Safety constraints reduce an algorithm’s ability to explore because the algorithm must take actions that are known to be safe. Similarly, safety constraints reduce an algorithm’s ability to exploit because actions that exploit known information may lead to unsafe states. As an example, consider a self-driving car that uses online RL to learn how to navigate a new environment in real time. To do this, an RL algorithm must make adjustments to speed and acceleration that account for unknown environmental factors such as wind speed and friction. However, the algorithm controlling a car in the real world must keep the car in safe states and avoid crashing into other objects. Therefore, it is critical that the algorithm learns while being safe. A better understanding of the relationship between learning and safety constraints is crucial for deploying online reinforcement learning algorithms in the real world. In this paper, we focus on understanding how safety and learning interact for a canonical learning problem in control theory known as online linear quadratic regulator (LQR) learning. While online LQR learning is one of the simplest learning problems with a continuous action space, this problem highlights the inherent differences between learning without safety constraints and learning with safety constraints.
