# III. EVENT-TRIGGER FOR RESOURCE CONSTRAINED ROBUST MPC

We use a priority based event-trigger [6], [8]. At every time, the central computer calculates priorities $g _ { i } ( t )$ measuring the need for recomputation of system i. For this, we define the predicted state trajectory as

$$x _ {i} (k + 1 | t) = f (x _ {i} (k | t), u _ {i} (k | t)) \tag {3}
x _ {i} (0 | t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} x _ {i} (1 | t - 1) & \text { if   no   recalculation } \\ x _ {i} (t) & \text { else } \end{array} . \right. \tag {4}
$$

The priorites are

$$g _ {i} (t) = \left\| x _ {i} (t) - x _ {i} (1 | t - 1) \right\|. \tag {5}$$

The central computer selects the systems with the Mc-highest priorities for computation. For the first $\mathrm { ~ } t < \lceil \frac { M _ { \mathrm { s } } } { M _ { c } } \rceil$ , it select the systems using round-robin instead, such that all systems are recalculated at least once. We now prove that this ET leads to a bounded distance between predicted and real state.

Assumption. For this, we make the following assumption.

Assumption 1: Define the non-disturbed system as

$$z _ {i} (t + 1) = f (z _ {i} (t), u _ {i} (t)). \tag {6}$$

There exists a function $\tilde { V } : \mathbb { R } _ { 0 } ^ { + } \times \mathbb { R } _ { 0 } ^ { + } \times \mathbb { N } _ { 0 } \to \mathbb { R }$ such that

(i) $\forall t \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 } : \tilde { V } ( 0 , 0 , t ) = 0 ,$

(ii) $\forall a _ { 1 } , a _ { 2 } , b \in \mathbb { R } _ { 0 } ^ { + } , c \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ with $a _ { 1 } < a _ { 2 } \colon \tilde { V } ( a _ { 1 } , b , c ) <$ $\tilde { V } ( a _ { 2 } , b , c ) ; \ \forall a , b _ { 1 } , b _ { 2 } \ \in \ \mathbb { R } _ { 0 } ^ { + } , c \ \in \ \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ with $b _ { 1 } ~ < ~ b _ { 2 } :$ $\tilde { V } ( a , b _ { 1 } , c ) < \tilde { V } ( a , b _ { 2 } , c )$ ; and $\forall a , b \in \mathbb { R } _ { 0 } ^ { + } , c _ { 1 } , c _ { 2 } \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ with $c _ { 1 } < c _ { 2 } \colon \tilde { V } ( a , b , c _ { 1 } ) < \tilde { V } ( a , b , c _ { 2 } )$ ,

(iii) $t , \tau \in \mathbb { N } : | | x _ { i } ( t + \tau ) - z _ { i } ( t + \tau ) | | \leq \tilde { V } ( \hat { w } , | | x _ { i } ( t ) -$ $z _ { i } ( t ) | | , \tau )$ .

This assumption gives a bound on the error propagation of state predictions. If f is Lipschitz continuous in the first argument with constant L, a possible choice is $\tilde { V } ( \hat { w } , \Delta , \tau ) =$ $L ^ { \tau } \Delta + ( L ^ { \tau } - 1 ) / ( L - 1 ) \hat { w }$ . But, tighter bounds might exist, e.g., when the system is prestabilized with a local controller.

Theoretical analysis. We now show that this trigger leads to a bounded difference between real and predicted state.
