Fig. 1: Overview of the system setup. A central computer controls $M _ { \mathrm { s } }$ independent systems using MPC. Due to its limited resources, it can only handle $M _ { \mathrm { c } } ~ < ~ M _ { \mathrm { s } }$ MPC optimizations per time step. To address this limitation, an event-triggered approach is employed to prioritize and select the systems in most need (green box).

predicted state trajectory reaches a threshold [3], [4], [5]. This approach has shown a significant computational load reduction compared to traditional periodic MPCs.

However, most approaches only save computation load on average and not in the worst-case. Consequently, the central computer server hardware must still be capable of solving the optimization problems for all systems at any given moment. Most methods thus do not reduce the necessary hardware or the associated expenses of the central computer. In this work, we thus ask (Fig. 1): How can we control $M _ { \mathrm { s } }$ nonlinear systems using MPC, when the central computer can only serve $M _ { \mathrm { c } } < M _ { \mathrm { s } }$ of them at once?

So far, only two approaches tackling ET-MPC reducing worst-case load exist. In a previous work [6], we developed an ET-MPC for drone swarms that ensures collision avoidance while solving optimization problems for only a maximum number of drones simultaneously. However, this ET-MPC is tailored to its application, limited to linear systems without disturbances and lacks stability guarantees. The second approach by Chen et al. [7] controls multiple systems with coupled constraints, reducing the worst-case load. However, it only focuses on undisturbed linear systems and features no feasibility or stability guarantees.

In contrast, this work focuses on independent non-linear systems with disturbances. Our robust ET-MPC achieves constraint satisfaction and stability while only solving an optimization problem for $M _ { \mathrm { c } } < M _ { \mathrm { s } }$ systems at every time (Fig. 1). We combine proof techniques for event-triggers under resource constraints [8] with constraint tightening for robust MPC [9].
