# G.8 Proof of Lemma 26

proof. The structure of this proof is as follows. The bulk of the proof is split into two key lemmas. We then combine these two lemmas to show the desired result. Define

$$\tau := \left\lceil 8 \left(\frac {2 + c _ {\mathrm{L} 2 5}}{c _ {\mathrm{L} 2 5}} \| D \| _ {\infty} + 2 \bar {w}\right) / \epsilon^ {*} \right\rceil ,$$

where $\epsilon ^ { * }$ is from Lemma 20. Now, we will define

$$X _ {j} := \left\{\forall t \in [ j: j + \tau ], w _ {t} \geq \bar {w} - \epsilon^ {*} / 4 \right\}.$$

Note that $\mathbb { P } ( X _ { j } ) ~ = ~ ( \mathbb { P } _ { w \sim \mathcal { D } } ( w \ge \bar { w } - \epsilon ^ { * } / 4 ) ) ^ { \tau + 1 } ~ : = ~ p _ { \epsilon }$ , and for sufficiently large $T , \ \tau \ \leq$ $\lceil \log ( T ) \rceil$ , therefore this $X _ { j }$ has the desired properties.

Lemma 31. Using the assumptions and notation of Lemma 26, conditional on $E _ { 2 } ^ { s } \cap \lnot E _ { \mathrm { E 5 7 } } \cap$ $X _ { j }$ , there exists an $\ell \in [ j : j + \tau ]$ such that $u _ { \ell } = u _ { \ell } ^ { \mathrm { s a f e U } }$ .

proof. We will first show that conditional on $E _ { 2 } ^ { s } \cap \lnot E _ { \mathrm { E 5 7 } }$ , for any value of $x$ satisfying $\begin{array} { r } { \overline { { D _ { L } - \bar { w } } } \le x \le \frac { D _ { U } } { a ^ { * } - b ^ { * } K _ { \mathrm { o p t } } ( \hat { \theta } _ { s } ) } } \end{array}$ , and for sufficiently large $T$ , if $w \ge \bar { w } - \epsilon ^ { * } / 4$ , then

$$\left(a ^ {*} - b ^ {*} K _ {\text {opt}} \left(\hat {\theta} _ {s}\right)\right) x + w \geq x + \frac {\epsilon^ {*}}{8}. \tag {96}$$

Under event $E _ { 2 } ^ { s } , \| \theta ^ { * } - \hat { \theta } _ { s } \| _ { \infty } \leq \tilde { O } _ { T } ( T ^ { - 1 / 4 } )$ , therefore under event $E _ { 2 } ^ { s }$ we have the following results:

$$a ^ {*} - b ^ {*} K _ {\mathrm{opt}} (\hat {\theta} _ {s}) \geq \hat {a} _ {s} - \hat {b} _ {s} K _ {\mathrm{opt}} (\hat {\theta} _ {s}) - \tilde {O} _ {T} (T ^ {- 1 / 4}) \quad \| \theta^ {*} - \hat {\theta} _ {s} \| _ {\infty} \leq \tilde {O} _ {T} (T ^ {- 1 / 4})\geq c _ {\mathrm{L} 2 5} - \tilde {O} _ {T} (T ^ {- 1 / 4}) \quad \text { Lemma 25 }\geq \frac {c _ {\mathrm{L} 2 5}}{2} \quad \text {suff large} T \tag {97}$$

and

$$
\begin{array}{l} a ^ {*} - b ^ {*} K _ {\mathrm{opt}} (\hat {\theta} _ {s}) \leq \hat {a} _ {s} - \hat {b} _ {s} K _ {\mathrm{opt}} (\hat {\theta} _ {s}) + \tilde {O} _ {T} (T ^ {- 1 / 4}) \quad \| \theta^ {*} - \hat {\theta} _ {s} \| _ {\infty} \leq \tilde {O} _ {T} (T ^ {- 1 / 4}) \\ \leq 1 + \tilde {O} _ {T} (T ^ {- 1 / 4}). \quad \text { Lemma   25 } \tag {98} \\ \end{array}
$$

Equation (97) implies that for sufficiently large $T _ { i }$
