# D. Problem Statement

Let $\mathcal { G } ( t )$ be a multi-robot network formed by n robots’ physical states x at time $t \geq t _ { 0 } ,$ where $t _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ is the initial time. Each robot $i \in \mathcal V$ also has its own its connectivity level $c _ { i } ( t )$ and consensus state $y _ { i } ( t )$ , which it shares with its neighbors. Robots are tasked with achieving consensus on $y _ { i } ( t )$ while navigating using a desired controller $u _ { i , \mathrm { d e s } }$ : $\mathbb { R } ^ { m } \to \mathcal { U } _ { i }$ . Our objective is to design distributed control strategies that enable normal robots to achieve resilient consensus without fixed communication topologies, while also minimally deviating from their desired controllers. Ensuring resilient consensus in this system requires control laws for both the consensus states $y _ { i } ( t )$ and the physical states $x _ { i } ( t )$ of robots, which we address separately. This paper focuses on cases where malicious robots disrupt consensus through information only, that is:

Assumption 1. Malicious robots follow the same control laws for their physical states as normal robots and do not engage in physical disruptions (e.g., collisions).

This assumption is reasonable from the perspective that, in principle, normal robots may have detection mechanisms to detect anomalous behaviors; hence it is reasonable to assume that malicious robots aim to mimic the behavior of the normal agents’ physical states to remain undetected. The consideration of both physical and informational attacks is future work.

To update consensus states, robots adopt W-MSR algorithm [3], which ensures resilient consensus given that the network topology is $( F + 1 , F + 1 )$ -robust $\forall t \geq t _ { 0 }$ . The main challenge of using W-MSR algorithm lies in the fact that $( r , s )$ -robustness is combinatorial and a function of global network states (i.e., the states of all robots). Existing approaches for maintaining these properties typically require obtaining global state information through inter-agent communication. However, such communication becomes unreliable in the presence of malicious agents. Thus, we present an alternative sufficient condition that is locally controllable.
