# B. Challenges

However, it is these carbon-ceramic brakes that pose one of the particular challenges. The friction coefficients of carbon brake disks vary with temperature. For the braking system to work consistently, the brake disks must be in an optimal temperature range [1], [2].

Additionally, numerous factors influence the friction at the tire-road contact, including tire and road temperature, track conditions, and tire wear. Modeling the interaction between tire and road is highly complex, and an open research topic [3], [4]. For the safe operation of a real-world vehicle, locking or spinning of tires has to be prevented under all driving conditions.

The previously introduced racecar features a turbocharged combustion engine. This highly varies in the torque output depending on oxygen levels, air temperature, and boost. Consequently, a static mapping from engine speed and desired torque to throttle constitutes an only suboptimal solution [5].

Moreover, combustion engines exert a drag torque on a vehicle for low throttle values. A controller has to account for this additional torque in braking situations, necessitating adjustments of the brake pressure commands.

A comprehensive concept that addresses these challenges has not yet been introduced in the context of vehicle dynamics control. Hence, this paper comprises the following contributions:

• We propose a novel concept for a performant and safe longitudinal control system of a vehicle up to its handling limits. This approach enables the safe testing of various trajectory- and path-tracking control algorithms on real-world vehicles. The developed algorithm generates the same inputs that a human driver would employ, making the concept applicable to all vehicles operable by a human.   
• We present an experimental validation of our approach executed on a real-world race car. The results show that the developed controller can safely handle the vehicle in its complete operation area.   
• We provide the developed controller as open-source software at https://github.com/TUMFTM/ TAM\_\_long\_acc\_control to facilitate real-world testing and comparison of trajectory- and path-tracking control methods. In order to simplify integration, the controller is compatible with the intefaces defined by Autoware.
