$$
v (x _ {i}) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} (- 1) ^ {i} \cdot [ 1 0 0, 0 ] ^ {T} - x _ {i} & \text { if } i \in \{1, \ldots , 5 \}, \\ (- 1) ^ {i} \cdot [ 0, 1 0 0 ] ^ {T} - x _ {i} & \text { if } i \in \{6, \ldots , 1 1 \}, \end{array} \right.
$$

robots will move in four different directions, which would break the network and prevent resilient consensus. Each simulation begins with every robot having at least seven neighbors, as shown in Fig. 1 (a), where normal and malicious robots are blue and red, respectively. Links between normal robots are depicted as gray dotted lines, while links involving malicious robots are shown as red dotted lines.

The robot formations at t = 10 seconds for each scenario are shown in Fig. 1 (b)-(d). Regardless of whether malicious robots $i \in \mathcal { A }$ update $c _ { i } ( t )$ according to (4), robots eventually stop dispersing to allow normal robots maintain at least seven neighbors while avoiding collisions, validating Theorem 1 and Corollary 1. Fig. 2 (a)-(c) show evolution of the degree constraint functions (9) for each scenario. The results also highlight the effect of malicious behaviors on robots’ movement, which is discussed in Remark 4. Comparing Fig. 1 (b) and (c), we observe that understating behaviors impose more connectivity constraints for normal robots to remain close to malicious agents, leading to a more compact network. Conversely, as seen in Fig. 1 (b) and (d), overstating behaviors relax these constraints, allowing normal agents to move more freely and form a more dispersed network. Notably, one malicious robot fails to maintain seven neighbors (shown in Fig. 2 (c)). Importantly, these variations in updates do not compromise resilient consensus (as shown in Fig. 2 (d)-(f)), demonstrating the effectiveness of our controller.
