# A. Predictive Gear Shift Controller

The torque curve of combustion engines usually exhibits a plateau of maximum available torque in a specific engine speed range. Racecar drivers, therefore, need to ensure the use of the correct gear to maximize the vehicle’s acceleration. Segers [25] analyzes the impact of upshifting and downshifting strategies for different drivers. The results show a high impact on the final lap time, thus emphasizing the importance of a well-designed gear shift strategy.

Besides selecting the correct gear, shift timing is crucial. A gear shift during cornering can decrease tire adhesion and induce snap oversteer [25]. We cut the gear shift request to prevent this if the lateral acceleration exceeds a specific limit. This acceleration limit is set based on a velocity and vertical acceleration dependent gg-diagram - called gggvdiagram [26]. Additionally, we introduce a predictive gear shift strategy to anticipate the need for an early gear shift. This strategy allows maximum torque output at the turn exit and avoids hitting the rev limiter when a shift is not permissible.

We utilize the planned trajectory to predict the target velocity and, thus, the corresponding engine speed with the current gear. We evaluate whether a downshift will be necessary based on this engine speed. We use a lookahead horizon starting after a specific time delay $t _ { \mathrm { l o o k a h e a d } }$ to account for oscillations induced by a gear shift. If the planned lateral acceleration exceeds the previously introduced limit at every point between this time delay and the point at which the lower gear is required $t _ { \mathrm { s h i f t } }$ , an early shift is performed.

Fig. 3 illustrates the functionality of the predictive gear shift controller. A shift will be required when the engine speed drops below the downshift limit. For the current time, the lateral acceleration is still below the limit at the start of the lookahead horizon. We perform an early shift once the horizon reaches the point where the acceleration exceeds the limit. Note that the lateral acceleration limit decreases with lower vehicle velocities. To prevent excessive drag torque and over-revving the engine, we do not perform a shift in case a certain engine speed is exceeded with the lower gear.
