# IV. DISTRIBUTED RESILIENCE-AWARE CONTROLLER

In this section, we design a distributed controller for robots’ physical states that enables robots to navigate the environment with guarantees of resilient consensus and physical safety. Consider a multi-robot network $\mathcal { G } ( t )$ formed by the physical states ${ \bf x } ( t )$ of n robots at time $t \geq t _ { 0 }$ . By Proposition $1 , \delta _ { \mathcal { L } } ( \mathcal { G } ( t ) ) \geq F ^ { \prime } = F + \lfloor \frac { n } { 2 } \rfloor \forall t \geq t _ { 0 }$ guarantees resilient consensus through the W-MSR algorithm. Thus, we design a controller that ensures that all normal robots maintain $F ^ { \prime }$ or more neighbors without collisions $\forall t \geq t _ { 0 } .$ , thereby addressing Problem 2.

There exist many works on decentralized control for connectivity maintenance [17], [18], [23]. However, these methods either (a) require robots to obtain states of all robots through inter-agent communication, which becomes unreliable in the presence of malicious agents, or (b) enforce fixed topologies, which may not always be feasible in certain settings or environments. Thus, we design a controller that (a) uses only local information while being robust to malicious sharing and (b) preserves a flexible network formation.

How we construct the controller (given in (20)) is as follows: first, we define constraint functions to enforce degree maintenance and collision avoidance. These functions are then composed into one centralized candidate CBF (11) whose corresponding CBF constraint (12) involves global state knowledge and control actions of all robots. Next, we decompose the constraint to create n separate distributed constraints (15) - one constraint for each robot - that only requires local information. Finally, we construct the controller with these distributed constraints, proving that it guarantees degree maintenance and safety under some assumptions.
