Delays and Networked Control Systems, pages 183–197, 2016.
Yahya Sattar and Samet Oymak.
Non-asymptotic and accurate learning of nonlinear dynamical systems.
The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 23(1):6248–6296, 2022.

Benjamin Schiffer and Lucas Janson.
Foundations of safe online reinforcement learning in the linear quadratic regulator: Generalized baselines.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21081v2, 2024.
Max Simchowitz and Dylan Foster.
Naive exploration is optimal for online lqr.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 8937–8948.
PMLR, 2020.
Max Simchowitz, Horia Mania, Stephen Tu, Michael I Jordan, and Benjamin Recht.
Learning without mixing: Towards a sharp analysis of linear system identification.
In Conference On Learning Theory, pages 439–473.
PMLR, 2018.
Yue Sun, Samet Oymak, and Maryam Fazel.
Finite sample system identification: Optimal rates and the role of regularization.
In Learning for dynamics and control, pages 16–25.
PMLR, 2020.
Ambuj Tewari and Susan A Murphy.
From ads to interventions: Contextual bandits in mobile health.
Mobile health: sensors, analytic methods, and applications, pages 495–517, 2017.
Akifumi Wachi, Yanan Sui, Yisong Yue, and Masahiro Ono.
Safe exploration and optimization of constrained mdps using gaussian processes.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 32, 2018.
Akifumi Wachi, Xun Shen, and Yanan Sui.
A survey of constraint formulations in safe reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.02025, 2024.
Feicheng Wang and Lucas Janson.
Exact asymptotics for linear quadratic adaptive control.
The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 22(1):12136–12247, 2021.
Feicheng Wang and Lucas Janson.
Rate-matching the regret lower-bound in the linear quadratic regulator with unknown dynamics.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.05799, 2022.
Yihang Yao, Zuxin Liu, Zhepeng Cen, Jiacheng Zhu, Wenhao Yu, Tingnan Zhang, and Ding Zhao.
Constraint-conditioned policy optimization for versatile safe reinforcement learning.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
Lintao Ye, Ming Chi, Zhi-Wei Liu, and Vijay Gupta.
Online actuator selection and controller design for linear quadratic regulation with unknown system model.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2024.
Zichen Zhao and Qianxiao Li.
Adaptive sampling methods for learning dynamical systems.
In Mathematical and Scientific Machine Learning, pages 335–350.
PMLR, 2022.
Yang Zheng and Na Li.
Non-asymptotic identification of linear dynamical systems using multiple trajectories.

IEEE Control Systems Letters, 5(5):1693–1698, 2020.
Ingvar Ziemann and Henrik Sandberg.
Regret lower bounds for learning linear quadratic gaussian systems.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2024.
