Note to Practitioners—This paper was motivated by the problem of stability in controlling Quadrotor UAVs under the influence of measurement noise and external disturbances. Existing approaches to control UAVs typically consider only the position loop as a single z-axis position. By proposing a novel structure, this paper focuses on presenting a robust approach to control Quadrotor UAVs concerning Lyapunov stability. Firstly, the EKF is conducted by linearizing the system around the current working status and estimating the system’s states using current feedback data. Secondly, the attitude loop and position loop are handled by a group of PD-SMC controllers and HSMC, respectively. The reference roll and pitch angles are calculated by the PD, while the SMC ensures the tracking of the Quadrotor UAVs. The position controller is managed by three types of HSMC, each considering a differential structure with specific control laws to ensure the tracking stability of the UAVs. The proposed strategy, with its specific control laws, reduces the computational burden compared to other intelligent methods and observers, making it suitable for real-time applications in resource-constrained environments. The rigorous analysis based on the Lyapunov stability principle ensures that the proposed control strategies maintain the stability of Quadrotor UAVs under various scenarios. In future research, we plan to utilize the proposed Lyapunov function to develop adaptive controllers that address system uncertainty and fault tolerance.

This work was funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) under grants NSF-CAREER: 1846513 and NSF-PFI-TT: 1919127, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology (USDOT/OST-R) under Grant No. 69A3551747126 through INSPIRE University Transportation Center. The views, opinions, findings, and conclusions reflected in this publication are solely those of the authors and do not represent the official policy or position of the NSF, the USDOT/OST-R, or any other entities.

The authors are with the Advanced Robotics and Automation (ARA) Lab, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557, USA.

∗ https://github.com/aralab-unr/HSMC-EKF-for-Quadrotor-UAVs

Corresponding author: Hung La, email: hla@unr.edu

Index Terms—Hierarchical sliding mode control, Extended Kalman filter, Quadrotor UAVs, Lyapunov stability.
