# 5 Discussion

In this section we discuss a few limitations of our results and some open questions. In this work, we focus on state constraints rather than constraints on the actions themselves. We expect that very minor modifications to Algorithm 2 will naturally extend these results to also apply to the setting where the controls $u _ { t }$ must satisfy constraints. More specifically, we would need to choose $C _ { s } ^ { \mathrm { a l g } }$ in Algorithm 2 to only choose controls that satisfy control constraints with an extra buffer of $\tilde { \Theta } _ { T } ( \epsilon _ { s } )$ . See Schiffer and Janson [2024] for more details on how results regarding state constraints can generalize to problems with control constraints as well. We leave formal derivations of this to future work.

Another natural extension of our results is to higher dimensional linear control problems. Our results focus on the one-dimensional case, but we expect that similar algorithmic ideas will extend to higher dimensional control problems. While we leave formal study of the higher dimensional case to future work, we highlight here a few interesting open questions regarding safety constrained control in higher dimensions. In higher dimensions, the system may not be one-step controllable, and therefore returning to the safe region in one step may be impossible. Therefore, for unbounded noise distributions there is not a clear definition of safety for these systems in higher dimensions. One simple case in which we do expect the results of this paper to easily generalize is when the system is one-step controllable and√ the constraints are symmetric around the origin. However, the question of whether $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret is possible for all noise distributions in higher dimensions is an open question for future work. In this paper, we also introduced the class of truncated linear controllers and proved some desirable properties of this class of controllers. We expect these properties to still hold in higher dimensions, but we leave formal study of this to future work.
