As long as the system is inactive, it forwards the target value it receives from the upstream components. The ABS starts its intervention if any of the wheels slips exceed a predefined threshold. The system latches its brake pressure target at activation as the maximum permissible brake pressure. During the braking maneuver, we gradually decrease this maximum value. This reduction accounts for the diminishing vertical tire force due to aerodynamic effects for decreasing velocities during a braking maneuver. When the brake pressure target received from the upstream modules falls below the current maximum permissible brake pressure, we terminate the ABS intervention, returning to regular operation.

During an ABS intervention, we reduce the brake pressure target relative to the latched value. Upstream modules include integral parts that try to compensate for this reduction by increasing the brake pressure target. Therefore, we calculate the refined target as a ratio of the current maximum value that is independent of the received target after ABS activation.

The ratio decreases if the slip exceeds the defined threshold and increases if the slip is below the threshold. We decrease the ratio from 100 % to a predefined value during the initial step. We perform relative percentage steps for all subsequent steps depending on the distance between the slip value and threshold.

For the ABS, we introduce an additional safety feature in case the system reduces the brake pressure target to a low value for a prolonged period, hindering the vehicle from decelerating to the desired velocity. The increased velocity can lead to infeasible lateral accelerations in an upcoming turn. Therefore, we pause the ABS intervention if the resulting longitudinal force falls below a certain threshold for a predefined time. This feature is not added to the TC, as it is not safety-critical if the vehicle drives at a slower velocity than desired.
