Note that every controller in the class of truncated linear controllers for dynamics θ is safe with probability 1 for dynamics θ. Furthermore, the class of truncated linear controllers for dynamics θ contains every linear controller that is with probability 1 safe for dynamics θ. Therefore, the class of truncated linear controllers is a strict superset of the class of safe linear controllers. We use the class of truncated linear controllers as a baseline because these controllers are computationally tractable while also being better suited for constrained LQR than standard linear controllers. For example, truncated linear controllers can effectively handle asymmetric constraints. As noted above, every controller in the baseline class $\mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { t r } } ^ { \theta ^ { * } }$ is safe, and therefore this is a fair baseline for our safe algorithm.

To evaluate our algorithm, we compare the total cost of the algorithm to the expected total cost of the best truncated linear controller when the dynamics of the system are known. Define

$$K _ {\mathrm{opt}} (\theta , T) := \arg \min _ {K \in [ \frac {a - 1}{b}, \frac {a}{b} ]} J ^ {*} (\theta , C _ {K} ^ {\theta}, T).$$

Then the expected total cost of the best truncated linear controller for dynamics $\theta ^ { * }$ is

$$\min _ {C \in \mathcal {C} _ {\mathrm{tr}} ^ {\theta^ {*}}} T \cdot J ^ {*} (\theta^ {*}, C, T) = T \cdot J ^ {*} (\theta^ {*}, C _ {K _ {\mathrm{opt}} (\theta^ {*}, T)} ^ {\theta^ {*}}, T). \tag {4}$$

Therefore, the regret of an algorithm with controller $C _ { \mathrm { a l g } }$ is

$$\operatorname{Regret} \left(C _ {\mathrm{alg}}\right) := T \cdot J \left(\theta , C _ {\mathrm{alg}}, T, 0, W\right) - T \cdot J ^ {*} \left(\theta^ {*}, C _ {K _ {\mathrm{opt}} \left(\theta^ {*}, T\right)} ^ {\theta^ {*}}, T\right). \tag {5}$$

Note that as is typical in LQR learning problems [Abbasi-Yadkori and Szepesv´ari, 2011, Li et al., 2021b], the regret as defined above is a random variable that depends on $\{ w _ { t } \} _ { t = 0 } ^ { T }$ and any randomness in $C _ { \mathrm { a l g } }$ . Therefore, in our results we will bound regret with high probability. Note that these bounds also imply the same bounds on the expected regret due to standard concentration inequalities and the subgaussian assumption on the noise random variables.
