Two previous works have focused on regret bounds for variants of the constrained LQR learning problem. Dean et al. [2019] and Li et al. [2021b] both consider the problem of constrained LQR learning specifically with bounded noise distributions. These works both give algorithms that achieve $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( T ^ { 2 / 3 } )$ regret for this problem, and their regret results are with respect to the baseline of the best safe linear controller. While the results in these works hold in higher dimensions, our work improves on these results in two ways. The first is that the regret rate we achieve is with respect to the baseline of the best truncated linear controller, which is a strictly stronger (and often significantly stronger) baseline than the best safe linear controller. Furthermore, the regret of our algorithm is ${ \cal \tilde { O } } _ { T } ( T ^ { 1 / 2 } )$ .

This paper is the second part of a two part series of papers on safe LQR learning. The first part of this series [Schiffer and Janson, 2024] provides more general results but with weaker regret bounds that apply to any baseline class of controllers satisfying a set of assumptions. Specifically, Schiffer and Janson [2024] shows that for any baseline class of controllers satisfying certain natural but abstract assumptions, it is possible to achieve√ $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( T ^ { 2 / 3 } )$ regret with respect to that baseline. That paper also shows that $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ is possible for such a baseline in the special case when the noise distribution has sufficiently large support. Importantly, however, that paper does not provide any concrete examples of baselines satisfying its assumptions as doing so would have rendered its appendix unreadably long. This paper establishes just such a concrete example of a baseline class that satisfies the assumptions of Schiffer and Janson [2024], namely, the class of truncated linear controllers. This class of controllers is well-adapted to safe LQR yet, due to its nonlinearity, presents a number of significant technical challenges (see Appendices C and D). Furthermore, Theorem 2 is a strictly stronger result than those in Schiffer and Janson [2024] for truncated linear controllers, and Algorithm 2 requires a number of new technical ideas and tools that are specific to the class of truncated linear controllers (see Section 3 and Appendix E).
