# A. Motivations

This paper focuses on the continuous-time linear statefeedback cooperative control of NDSs, where only discrete and noisy observations on a single round of the system’s trajectory are available. In particular, we aim to provide a

†: Yushan Li and Dimos V. Dimarogonas are with the Division of Decision and Control Systems, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. E-mail: {yushanl,dimos}@kth.se.   
‡: Jianping He is with the Department of Automation, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. E-mail: jphe@sjtu.edu.cn.

systematic approach for inferring both the nodal dynamics and the topology of the NDS, and subsequently reconstructing the control objective function that governs the process.

The motivation for addressing this problem stems from two main aspects. First, most existing studies that concentrate on network inference or identification primarily deal with the topology structure, while assuming that the nodal dynamics are known a priori and that the nodal state is scalar [6], [7]. However, finding solutions for cases involving highdimensional and unknown nodal dynamics remains an open issue. Second, in contrast to traditional system identification methods, which typically operate under open-loop testing on a single system, the state feedback control of NDSs is an interconnected and closed-loop process without any external excitation. This characteristic implies that the nodal dynamics and topology are inherently intertwined with the underlying feedback gain, creating an additional challenge in decoupling these unknown factors. Therefore, it is essential to develop new methodologies to simultaneously tackle such issues and provide theoretical guarantees.
