# B. System Modeling

Consider N nodes in a NDS $\mathcal { G } = ( \nu , \mathcal { E } )$ share a common state space $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and aim to cooperatively accomplish a task.

Let $x _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be the state of node i, subject to the following identical linear time-invariant (LTI) dynamics

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {x} _ {i} = A x _ {i} + B u _ {i} \\ u _ {i} = K \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}} a _ {i j} \left(x _ {j} - x _ {i}\right), \end{array} \right. \tag {1}
$$

where $A \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ and $B \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ are the nodal system matrices, $u _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the control input of node $i , a _ { i j }$ is the weight of the directed edge from node j to i, and $K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ is the feedback gain matrix. Specifically, $( A , B )$ is controllable, and B has full rank. The system model (1) is popular in many consensus-based cooperation tasks, e.g., formation forming and tracking control of mobile robots, frequency regulation in smart grids, and oscillatory synchronization in brain neural networks. Correspondingly, the global closed-loop dynamics of the NDS is written as

$$\dot {x} = (I _ {N} \otimes A - L \otimes B K) x \triangleq A _ {c} x, \tag {2}$$

where $\boldsymbol { x } = [ x _ { 1 } ^ { \mathsf { T } } , \cdot \cdot \cdot , x _ { N } ^ { \mathsf { T } } ] ^ { \mathsf { T } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N n }$ is the global state, and $A _ { c }$ is called the global continuous-time closed-loop matrix. The stability of (2) is guaranteed by the following lemma.

Lemma 1 (see [39]). Let $\lambda _ { i } , i = 1 , \cdots , N ,$ , be the eigenvalues of L. The global system (2) achieves consensus $i f$ and only if all the matrices

$$A - \lambda_ {i} B K, i = 1, \dots , N, \tag {3}$$

are asymptotically stable.
