# C. Contributions

To address the aforementioned issues, we propose a bi-level inference method to reveal the components involved in state feedback cooperative control, including the nodal dynamics, the topology, and the feedback control gain. The primary challenges lie in i) establishing the explicit relationship between discrete observations and continuous-time model parameters, and ii) overcoming the inherent couplings concerned components. Our key idea is to first construct the closed-loop system matrix of the NDS from noisy observations, and then extract the relevant components by exploiting the cooperative nature. The contributions are summarized as follows.

• We derive conditions of inferring the control mechanism of NDSs through observation driven methods. Precisely,

we propose a bi-level inference framework to infer the nodal dynamics and the topology in continuous-time state-feedback cooperative control, along with theoretical guarantees.

• At the first level, we design a causality based estimator for the discretized closed-loop system matrix. This estimator effectively bridges the gap between discrete observations and the continuous-time model, achieving unbiased accuracy in the asymptotic sense when the NDS is stable.   
• We develop matrix logarithm and least squares based procedures to decouple the concerned components in the second level. Sufficient conditions regarding the sampling period for continuous-time model estimation are derived, along with the corresponding error bound. Notably, the topology and feedback gain can be accurately inferred up to a scalar ambiguity.   
• Furthermore, we reconstruct the LQ objective function underpinning the state feedback control process. By leveraging inverse optimal control techniques, we explicitly characterize the solution space for the parameters. Finally, a constrained quadratic optimization problem is formulated to infer the parameters.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II presents some preliminaries and the inference problem formulation. The inference design on the nodal dynamics and the topology are provided in Section III along with performance analysis. The reconstruction method on the objective function is further in Section IV. Simulation results are given in Section V. Finally, Section VI concludes the paper.
