The proof of Lemma 1 can be found in Appendix D. Next, informally, Lemma 2 says that the cost of using a truncated linear controller is Lipschitz continuous in the starting state. Therefore, if $| x - y |$ is sufficiently small, then the difference in total cost of starting at x versus y is linear in $| x - y |$ .

Lemma 2. There exist $\epsilon _ { \mathrm { L 2 } } , \delta _ { \mathrm { L 2 } } = \tilde { \Omega } _ { T } ( 1 )$ such that for any θ satisfying $\lVert \theta - \theta ^ { * } \rVert _ { \infty } \leq \epsilon _ { \mathrm { L 2 } }$ the following holds. For $t < T$ , let $W ^ { \prime } = \{ w _ { i } \} _ { i = 0 } ^ { t - 1 }$ . Then for any $K \in [ \frac { a - 1 } { b } , \frac { a } { b } ]$ , there exists a set $\mathcal { V } _ { \mathrm { L 2 } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { t }$ that depends only on $C _ { K } ^ { \theta }$ such that the following holds. Define $\bar { E } _ { \mathrm { L 2 } } \left( C _ { K } ^ { \theta } , W ^ { \prime } \right)$ as the event that $W ^ { \prime } \in \mathcal { V } _ { \mathrm { L 2 } }$ . Then $\mathbb { P } ( E _ { \mathrm { L 2 } } \left( C _ { K } ^ { \theta } , W ^ { \prime } \right) ) \geq 1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T ^ { 1 0 } )$ and for any $| x | , | y | \leq 4 \log ^ { 2 } ( T )$ such that $| x - y | \le \delta _ { \mathrm { L 2 } }$ , conditional on event $E _ { \mathrm { L 2 } } \left( C _ { K } ^ { \theta } , W ^ { \prime } \right)$ ,

$$\left| t \cdot J (\theta^ {*}, C _ {K} ^ {\theta}, t, x, W ^ {\prime}) - t \cdot J (\theta^ {*}, C _ {K} ^ {\theta}, t, y, W ^ {\prime}) \right| \leq \tilde {O} _ {T} (| x - y | + \| \theta - \theta^ {*} \| _ {\infty}). \tag {7}$$

The proof of Lemma 2 can be found in Appendix C. Lemmas 1 and 2 give a concrete instantiation of the results of Schiffer and Janson [2024]. Because Schiffer and Janson [2024] does not give any concrete baselines for their framework, these two lemmas are necessary to show the applicability of their framework. However, also note that Theorem 2 is strictly stronger than the theorems of Schiffer and Janson [2024] would be for truncated linear controllers.

As discussed above, truncated linear controllers are a natural extension of linear controllers better suited for problems with safety constraints. Because truncated linear controllers are not linear, the analysis of this class requires new theoretical tools (see Appendices D and C). These proofs and results may be independently interesting in that non-linear controllers have not been well-studied in this setting and therefore little was previously known about properties of such controller classes.
