Algorithm 2 Intuition The main intuition behind the proof of Theorem 2 is to design an algorithm that combines the faster learning rates under tight constraints from Schiffer and Janson [2024] with the observation that $\tilde { O _ { T } } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret is possible in unconstrained LQR learning with unknown dynamics. Algorithm 2 is broken into two phases. The first phase is a warm-up exploration phase that allows the algorithm to learn about the unknown dynamics quickly but potentially incurs high per-step cost. The second phase of the algorithm uses a form of certainty equivalence. The key is to split the choice of $C _ { s } ^ { \mathrm { a l g } }$ into two cases (Line 6) depending on the estimated dynamics $( \hat { \theta } _ { \mathrm { w u } } )$ at the end of the warm-up period. The first case in Line 6 corresponds to when the support of the noise is sufficiently small so that we can√ bound the regret of the algorithm using the observation that $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret is possible in the unconstrained setting. More specifically, this case is when the boundaries are far enough away from the origin compared to the magnitude of the noise, and therefore the algorithm can use a controller very close to the optimal unconstrained controller. The second case in Line 6 corresponds to when the support of the noise is sufficiently large so that we can use the faster learning rate from Schiffer and Janson [2024]. More specifically, in this case we argue√ that the uncertainty bound √ $\epsilon _ { s }$ will decrease at a rate of $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( 1 / \sqrt { T _ { s } } )$ (Proposition 3). We give more details on the $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret of these two cases separately below. The warm-up phase of Algorithm 2 satisfies the safety constraints with probability $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T )$ by Assumption 3. The second phase satisfies the safety constraint with probability $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T )$ because of the final choice of $u _ { t }$ in Line 9. With high probability, $\lVert \theta ^ { * } - \hat { \theta } ^ { \mathrm { w u } } \rVert _ { \infty } \leq \epsilon _ { 0 }$ and $\| \theta ^ { * } - \hat { \theta } _ { s } \| _ { \infty } \leq \epsilon _ { s }$ , and therefore with high probability $u _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { s a f e U } }$ and $u _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { s a f e L } }$ provide upper and lower bounds on a set of safe controls. Therefore, the choice of $u _ { t }$ is safe with probability $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 / T )$ for all steps in the exploration phase.

Algorithm 2 Truncated Linear Controller Safe LQR
