# 1.3 Our Contribution

The overarching goal of this paper is to provide foundations for analyzing safety-constrained LQR learning using non-linear baselines of controllers that are better suited for the constrained problem. Our main result is the first algorithm for safety-constrained one-dimensional LQR with unknown dynamics that with high probability guarantees $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret. In this setting, our work improves upon the previous best regret results, in particular Li et al. [2021b], Dean et al. [2019] prove $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( T ^ { 2 / 3 } )$ regret bounds and only for bounded noise distributions.

The rate of $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ matches the optimal rate of regret in the unconstrained LQR learning problem. Note that unconstrained LQR learning is a special case of constrained LQR learning with sufficiently loose constraints. Therefore, because the lower bound for unconstrained LQR learning is $\tilde { \Omega } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret [Ziemann and Sandberg, 2024], it is impossible to in general do better than $\tilde { \Omega } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret for the constrained problem. In addition to improving the rate of regret, the $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret is also with respect to a stronger baseline than previous works. More specifically, the regret is defined with respect to the best controller from the baseline class of truncated linear controllers, which consists of linear controllers corrected to obey the safety constraints. This baseline is naturally well-suited for safe control and is a significantly stronger baseline than studied in previous works (see Section 2.3 for more details). Because the controllers in this class are frequently non-linear, we also introduce new theoretical tools for analyzing this type of non-linear controller. Therefore, our $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( \sqrt { T } )$ regret result is strictly stronger than the previous $\tilde { O } _ { T } ( T ^ { 2 / 3 } )$ regret results of Li et al. [2021b], Dean et al. [2019] applied to our setting, in both the regret baseline and the rate of regret. Note that these previous works also assume bounded noise distribution, while our results hold for any sub-gaussian distribution.

Informally, our main theorem can be stated as follows:
