Another aspect of UAVs is observers, the UAVs need to know precisely its position, velocity, altitude, etc. In terms of the UAVs, if these states are obtained accurately then the control of the aircraft can be achieved successfully [25]. Since the UAVs work in an outdoor environment, various external factors such as wing forces or measure noises influence the UAVs’ performance. Therefore, proposing an adequate solution for this problem is essential in controlling UAVs. Several observers have been developed to estimate system states, such as high-gain observers in [26], [27], or extended state observers, as discussed in [28], [29], which estimate both system states and disturbances of UAVs to enhance performance. In this research, we focus on the challenge of estimating UAV’s system states under the influence of measured noises and external disturbances. An effective approach to address this challenge is utilizing the Kalman Filter (KF). By modeling noises as Gaussian functions, KF iteratively updates observer gain to estimate system states. However, KF is designed for linear systems, posing limitations for highly nonlinear UAV dynamics. To overcome this constraint, alternatives such as the Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) [30], [31] and the Particle Filter (PF) [32] have been proposed to track references in UAVs. Although these filters perform a high quality for the UAVs in terms of tracking performance, the computational cost of these nonlinear methods is high, leading to the rise of the cost of UAV development and operation. Inspired by the method in [33], by locally linearizing UAV dynamics, we propose an Extended Kalman filter (EKF) for the UAVs. This filter can ensure robust state estimation under the influence of measured noises and external disturbances. Moreover, the computational cost of EKF can be reduced in comparison to other nonlinear methods that provide potential applications to real UAVs.
