$$
\begin{array}{l} \widehat {H} = \left[ I _ {N n} \otimes (I _ {N} \otimes \widehat {A}) ^ {\intercal} + (I _ {N} \otimes \widehat {A}) ^ {\intercal} \otimes I _ {N n} \right. \\ \left. - \left(\widehat {L} \otimes \widehat {B} \widehat {K}\right) ^ {\intercal} \otimes I _ {N n}, I _ {N ^ {2} n ^ {2}} \right], \tag {91} \\ \end{array}
$$

which is used to construct the equation ${ \widehat { H } } \theta = \mathbf { 0 }$ . Besides, it is worth mentioning that in many situations, the cost matrices $Q$ and R are considered to be symmetric. When this symmetry is taken into account to solve ${ \widehat { H } } \theta = \mathbf { 0 } .$ , the feasible solution will no longer exist because the number of non-redundant unknowns in θ becomes

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {q} = 2 N ^ {2} n ^ {2} - 2 N n ^ {2} - \left(N ^ {2} n ^ {2} - N n\right) \\ = N ^ {2} n ^ {2} + N n - 2 N n ^ {2}, \tag {92} \\ \end{array}
$$

which implies that it is smaller than the number of equations, i.e., $\tilde { q } < \bar { N } ^ { 2 } n ^ { 2 }$ .

To make a solvable inverse optimal LQ control for NDSs, we treat the violation of ${ \widehat { H } } \theta$ as an objective function and solve the following constrained quadratic program problem

$$\min _ {\theta} \quad \theta^ {\intercal} \widehat {H} ^ {\intercal} \widehat {H} \theta \tag {93a}\text { s.t. } \quad Q \succ 0, P \succ 0, \tag {93b}\sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} Q _ {i j} = \mathbf {0}, \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} P _ {i j} = \mathbf {0}, \forall i \in \mathcal {V}, \tag {93c}Q = Q ^ {\intercal}, P = P ^ {\intercal}. \tag {93d}$$

Notice that the constraint (93b) enforces positive definiteness to avoid trivial solutions, and the constraint (93d) can be dropped if the symmetry is not required. Since both the objective function and constraints in (93) are convex, the optimal solution always exists (not necessarily unique), and one can resort to many mature optimization techniques to solve the problem. The matrix R can be still estimated by (89).

In summary, the overall procedure of the proposed inverse inference method can be cast into three parts:

• Estimate the global closed-loop matrices: obtain the matrices $\widehat { A } _ { d }$ by (52) and $\widehat { A } _ { c }$ by (38) consequently.   
• Decouple the nodal dynamics and topology: estimate A by (53), L by Algorithm 1, and $\{ B , K \}$ by (72).   
• Reconstruct the cost function: solve the parameters $\{ Q , R \}$ by (93) and (89) consequently.
