based on the braking system’s geometry and characteristics, including the wheel radius $r _ { \mathrm { w h e e l } , i }$ , bore diameter $d _ { \mathrm { b o r e } } ,$ the friction coefficient $\mu _ { \mathrm { b r a k e } }$ of the brake pads and the mean brake lever radius $r _ { \mathrm { l e v e r } } $ . The brake force $F _ { x , \mathrm { b r a k e } }$ is calculated by subtracting the braking force resulting from the engine drag torque from the longitudinal force target. The brake bias $\zeta _ { i }$ distributes the brake force between the front and rear axle. As the drag torque, in our case, only acts on the rear axle, we adjust the brake bias to allocate the braking force according to a fixed ratio.

3) Slip Calculation: We calculate exact slip values for each wheel, as we need these as input to the downstream stability controller (Fig. 4). To calculate the slip values, we use the established correlations for a two-track model [27] and the slip definition according to Pacejka [28]. In addition, there are two specializations for our application:

Due to the high speeds reached by the racing car, we have to consider the speed-dependency of the effective tire rolling radius during slip calculation. The correlation between speed and tire rolling radius is stored in a calibration curve. This enables simple parameterization from real-world data as well as data sheets.

Since the race car is rear-wheel driven only, we assume the front wheels do not slip during acceleration. From this assumption, we can calculate a velocity at the car’s center of gravity by inverting the equations used during conventional slip calculation. This method results in a accurate estimation of the vehicle’s velocity and increases robustness against disturbances in state estimation. However, because the zero slip assumption is not valid under braking, we must smoothly transition from the front wheel-based velocity to the state estimation velocity. We calculate an interpolation factor between the front wheel velocity $( k _ { \kappa } ~ = ~ 0 )$ and the state estimation velocity $( k _ { \kappa } = 1 )$ :

$$k _ {\kappa} = \max \left(\frac {p _ {\mathrm{b,f}}}{5 \times 1 0 ^ {5} \mathrm{Pa}}, - \left(a _ {x, \text { filtered }} + 5 \frac {\mathrm{m}}{\mathrm{s} ^ {2}}\right)\right). \tag {4}$$
