Hence, the system is stable. Moreover, applying Barbalat’s lemma [39], the sliding surface will converge to zero, which means $c _ { \phi } e _ { 7 } + e _ { 8 }  0 .$ . Solving the differential equation we have the control error $\phi - \phi _ { r } \to 0 .$ , and then the UAVs can track references. For the pitch and yaw angles, let’s define the sliding surface as:

$$s _ {\theta} = c _ {\theta} e _ {9} + e _ {1 0} \tag {43}s _ {\psi} = c _ {\psi} e _ {1 1} + e _ {1 2}. \tag {44}$$

Defining the Lyapunov function as:

$$V _ {\theta} = \frac {1}{2} s _ {\theta} ^ {2} \tag {45}V _ {\psi} = \frac {1}{2} s _ {\psi} ^ {2}. \tag {46}$$

Using the same technique with the roll angle, the control input $u _ { 3 } , u _ { 4 }$ can be obtained by:

$$
\begin{array}{l} u _ {3} = \frac {1}{b _ {\theta}} [ - c _ {\theta} \hat {\theta} - (c _ {\theta} + 1) \dot {\hat {\theta}} + c _ {\theta} \theta_ {r} + (c _ {\theta} + 1) \dot {\theta} _ {r} \\ \left. - f _ {\theta} - K _ {\theta} \operatorname{sat} \left(s _ {\theta}\right) + \ddot {\theta} _ {r} \right] \tag {47} \\ \end{array}
u _ {4} = \frac {1}{b _ {\psi}} [ - c _ {\psi} \hat {\psi} - (c _ {\psi} + 1) \dot {\hat {\psi}} + c _ {\psi} \psi_ {r} + (c _ {\psi} + 1) \dot {\psi} _ {r}\left. - f _ {\psi} - K _ {\psi} \operatorname{sat} \left(s _ {\psi}\right) + \ddot {\psi} _ {r} \right] \tag {48}$$

then the SMC can help the UAVs track the roll-pitch-yaw references.

However, for the reference roll and pitch angle, we consider a group of PD controllers for the tracking along the x-axis and the y-axis. To move along the x-direction the quadrotor UAVs are required to roll around the y-axis and to move along the y-direction the quadrotor UAVs are required to roll around the x-axis. The roll angle is approximated as the first-order system of $\left( y _ { r } – y \right)$ , where $y _ { r }$ is the desired trajectory. Therefore, the PD controller to create the roll and the yaw reference is defined as:

Roll controller:

$$\phi_ {r} = k _ {p y} (y _ {r} - \hat {y}) - k _ {d y} (\dot {y} _ {r} - \dot {\hat {y}}) \tag {49}$$

Pitch controller:

$$\theta_ {r} = k _ {p x} \left(\hat {x} - x _ {r}\right) - k _ {d x} \left(\dot {\hat {x}} - \dot {x} _ {r}\right) \tag {50}$$

where $k _ { p x } , k _ { d x } , k _ { p y } , k _ { d y }$ are the controller parameters, respectively.
