Other works such as Li et al. [2021b], Dean et al. [2019] consider a similar constrained LQR problem but require that the controller satisfies strict constraints on the state. In these works, the algorithm must choose controls such that for all $t , D _ { \mathrm { L } } ^ { x } \leq x _ { t } \leq D _ { \mathrm { U } } ^ { x }$ for some $D _ { \mathrm { { L } } } ^ { x } < 0 < D _ { \mathrm { { U } } } ^ { x }$ . However, these works also require that the noise distribution is bounded. When the noise distribution D is a bounded distribution (i.e. D satisfies $\bar { w } _ { \mathrm { L } } : = \operatorname* { i n f } _ { w \sim \mathcal { D } } w >$ −∞ and $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { w } _ { \mathrm { U } } : = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { w \sim \mathcal { D } } w < \infty \Big ) } \end{array}$ , then there exists a one-to-one mapping between Definition 1 and strict state constraints. Formally, when D is a bounded distribution, the expected-$D _ { \mathrm { L } } ^ { \mathbb { E } [ x ] } - \bar { w } _ { \mathrm { L } } \leq x _ { t } \leq D _ { \mathrm { U } } ^ { \mathbb { E } [ x ] } - \bar { w } _ { \mathrm { U } }$ nition 1 for all $t \in [ T ]$ ivalent to the strict state constraints that. Therefore, the expected-state constraint formulation is strictly more general than the safety formulation studied in these previous works.

The reason that we study expected state constraints is that they allow for more general noise distributions. For example, if D is normally distributed with mean 0 and variance 1, then $D _ { \mathrm { L } } ^ { x } \leq x _ { t } \leq D _ { \mathrm { U } } ^ { x }$ is impossible to satisfy with probability $1 - o _ { T } ( 1 )$ for any constant $D _ { \mathrm { { L } } } ^ { x } , D _ { \mathrm { { U } } } ^ { x }$ . Therefore, for distributions with unbounded support, the expected state constraints $D = ( D _ { \mathrm { { L } } } , D _ { \mathrm { { U } } } ) { \stackrel { \smile } { = } } ( D _ { \mathrm { { L } } } ^ { \mathbb { E } [ x ] } , D _ { \mathrm { { U } } } ^ { \mathbb { E } [ x ] } )$ e problem feasible. For notational simplicity, we will often use to represent the bounds for the expected-state constraints.
