# 3.2 Infrastructure

For demonstrating the broad applicability of the presented concept across different configurations and simulation environments in the realm of cyber-physical systems, we propose an experimental testbed 3 encompassing two distinct co-simulation frameworks building upon the Functional Mock-up Interface (FMI) standard: ROSCo4 and Maestro [20]. The Maestro co-orchestration engine is used on the DT side, whereas the ROSCo framework is applied on the PT side. According to the FMI standard, Functional Mock-up Units (FMUs) are used to specify the behavior of the software units involved and can be exported from various tools, including among others, MATLAB Simulink, OpenModelica, IBM Rational Rhapsody, CATIA and AutoFOCUS3.

For our experiments, we instantiate the generic infrastructure with the given components. The DT is hosted on enterprise hardware, an Intel® Core™ i7 Notebook with 8 cores, 16 GB RAM and Ubuntu 20.04., and can run any FMI-compliant co-simulation framework, in this case the Maestro based cosimulation. The corresponding PT is the fortissimo rover equipped with a Raspberry Pi 3 Model B, redundant, multi-modal front-facing sensors: Two ultrasonic sensors, a LIDAR, and an RGB camera. The PT will execute the ROSCo co-simulation, as ROSCo is part of the fortissimo platform and can access and control the hardware of the vehicle. The communication infrastructure between the twins builds upon the Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP) protocol, discussed below. Moreover, both tools support fault injection, enabling us to conduct the aforementioned experiments by assessing the behavior before and after fallback mechanisms intervene.
