# 5.2.2 Building the causal model

Our choice for elements that comprise the signature are shown below. Note that we depart from the choice made in Example 3, as to show that the set of endogenous variables can be chosen by the user. Recall that U is the set of exogenous variables and V is that of endogenous variables.

• U = {acceleration, pedestrianPosition, carPosition, g, critical, speed, decay, belowCritical}   
• V = {brakes, battery, lidarRange}

Our choice of endogenous variables is based not only on what can reasonably be viewed as a cause but, more importantly, is based on what the user has control over and is willing to analyse and change in order to fix the system. The goal for this particular analysis is to determine which parts of the car are related to the failure and should be modified so that the car avoids colliding with the pedestrian.

Even though the pedestrian itself can be viewed as a part of the cause of the accident, we ultimately have no control over them, so we do not consider pedestrianP osition as an endogenous variable. Furthermore, we also classify the car acceleration and speed as exogenous variables; in our example, the car is autonomous and always travels at the road speed until it detects an obstacle, in which case, the car slows down. These variables are part of the set of exogenous variables, i.e., the external setting that exerts influence on the system.

Concerning the variables in the endogenous set, it includes the braking coefficient (brakes), the lidar range (lidarRange) and the battery level (battery). We aim to identify if they can be considered a cause for the collision with the pedestrian and, if applicable, the moment in time where the value of these variables can lead to the pedestrian being hit. As it happens, constants such as the braking coefficient can only be modified in its full trajectory. Variables, such as the battery, can change depending on which parts of the system is active, so it is possible to modify only a slice of it.

Initially, the set of trajectories that compose R is the trajectory (c) that led to the collision. As the search is conducted in the next steps, R will expand. The causal model is built using the sets of functions that relate the trajectories in R with the variables in (U ∪ V). For example, considering the trajectory ⃗u, we have:
