# 4.1 Recurrent Neural Network based D-NMPC

Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are input-output dynamic models used to represent nonlinear systems [19, 20]. RNNs are based on NNs with a recurrent or feedback connection, which results in dynamic prediction. Given a training data in the form of input-output sequence as in Eq. (33), RNNs compute the predicted output using a recurrent equation:

$$\hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k + 1} = \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k}; \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}}) = \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k}) \tag {67}$$

where $\theta _ { \mathbf { f } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { f } }$ contains the training parameters of RNN, which consists of the weights and biases of the network. The block diagram of RNN is given in Fig. 6(a) in which the delay term is equivalent to the derivative in continuous time, which makes RNN a dynamic model. This represents one of the simplest forms of RNNs and can be viewed as being inspired by the initial versions of RNNs such as the Hopfield network [21]. In general, RNN models can be represented as a composite function:

$$\mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} = \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{L}} (\mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{L} - 1} (\dots (\mathbf {f} _ {1} (\hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k})))) \tag {68}$$

where $\mathbf { f } _ { i } , i = 1 , 2 , \ldots , \mathrm { L }$ are layers of the RNN which can be represented as:

$$\mathbf {f} _ {i} (\mathbf {v} _ {i}) = \sigma_ {\mathbf {f} _ {i}} \left(\mathbf {A} _ {\mathbf {f} _ {i}} \mathbf {v} _ {i} + \mathbf {b} _ {\mathbf {f} _ {i}}\right) \tag {69}$$

where $\sigma _ { \mathbf { f } _ { i } } : \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } }$ contains the activation functions for the $n _ { i }$ neurons in the $i ^ { t h }$ layer of the RNN. The corresponding weight and bias parameters being $\mathbf { A } _ { \mathbf { f } _ { i } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } \times n _ { i - 1 } } , \mathbf { b } _ { \mathbf { f } _ { i } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } }$ . Here $\mathbf { v } _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i - 1 } }$ is the input to the $i ^ { t h }$ layer of RNN. See [22, 23] for more information on NN architecture and activation functions.

The training of RNN is associated with finding the optimal parameters in terms of prediction accuracy. The training data for RNN is defined as in Eq. (33). For a given initial output and control sequence, the predicted output sequence for the RNN can be computed as:
