# 1 Introduction

Mathematical models are commonly used to represent a particular problem/system of interest through mathematical equations. Traditionally, such models have been developed using first-principles approaches or domain knowledge, incorporating fundamental laws such as mass and energy balances, heat transfer relations, and related physical phenomena. These models can generally be classified into two categories:

1. Static model: describes steady-state or time-independent relationships among variables in the system.   
2. Dynamic model: describes transient or time-dependent relationships among system variables. Dynamic models can be represented in continuous-time as differential equations or in discrete-time as difference equations.

Model predictive control (MPC) is a modern control approach which is an optimization-based feedback control strategy. The conventional MPC relies on a dynamic model of the system, typically in discrete-time, to predict future behavior (either output or states) over a finite control input sequence [1, 2]. The predicted behavior is characterized through a cost function, which depends on both the predicted output/state sequence and the control sequence. The control input sequence is then determined by minimizing the predicted behavior (cost function), and the first element of the control sequence is applied to the system. This results in a receding horizon and closed-loop control scheme, where the current input is a function of the current output or state. In conventional MPC, the dynamic model is assumed to be known. However, in many practical applications, the system model may not be available. With recent developments in the fields of data science and machine learning (ML), new approaches have emerged for mathematical modeling and control, emphasizing data-driven models [3]. This has led to the emergence of data-driven control, a subfield focused on designing control strategies without relying on first-principle models. System identification (SysID), which deals with deriving dynamic models from data, plays a significant role in this domain [4, 5]. Data-driven MPC (D-MPC), which integrates SysID, data science, and MPC, is a rapidly growing area in control systems research [6, 7, 8].
