This section focuses on approaches in model-based D-LMPC, i.e., SysID followed by MPC. A critical step in most SysID and MPC strategies involves expressing the predicted output or state trajectory as a function of the control input sequence. This is where the model comes into the picture: it is employed to establish a mathematical relationship between the predicted system output (or states) and the corresponding control input sequence. Through this relationship, the model helps in optimizing the control inputs within the MPC framework, ensuring that the predicted system behavior aligns with the desired performance objectives. In this section, we consider the identification of linear state-space models from input-output data, which is then used for designing MPC schemes. The linear state-space identification methods proposed in the past consist of:

1. Realization methods [10]-[14]: in which the system parameters are estimated from the training data by constructing the input and output Hankel matrices, followed by a factorization step such as singular value decomposition (SVD). Examples are the Ho-Kalman algorithm, Subspace-based methods, etc.   
2. Prediction error methods (PEMs) [15]: are optimization-based methods in which the model parameters are computed by minimizing a loss function of the output prediction error.

In this paper, we will be mostly using PEMs for SysID, which can be used for the identification of both linear and nonlinear systems. Before moving on to PEM-based identification, next we will discuss D-LMPC based on realization methods with numerical implementation.
