# 4.2 Trajectories and overriding

We start by defining valuation. Valuations serve as the basis for trajectories, which, in turn, define the semantic domain for models of CPSs.

Definition 7 (Valuation). Given a set of variables $\vec { V } ~ = ~ \{ X _ { 1 } , \ldots , X _ { n } \}$ , we denote by $V a l ( \vec { V } ) = \vec { V }  D$ the set of all total functions from $\vec { V }$ to the common domain $D$ .

In the remainder of this paper, we take D to be the set of real numbers R. In cyberphysical systems, variables often have continuous valuation over time. This can be represented using trajectories, which are collections of variable valuations within a time interval. A discrete Boolean variable, for instance, can be modelled as a special case where the value taken by the variable is only 0 or 1.

Definition 8 (Trajectory). Given a set of variables $\vec { V }$ , the set of trajectories over $\vec { V }$ , denoted by $T r a j s ( \vec { V } ) = \{ x _ { 1 } , . . . , x _ { m } \}$ , is the set of all partial mappings $T \to V a l ( \vec { V } )$ , where $T$ is the time domain.

We take T to be a convex subset of non-negative real numbers $\mathbb { R } _ { + }$ . We consider partial mappings over $T ,$ since trajectory slices (formally defined in the sequel), which may not be defined over the whole $T$ , are also members of $T r a j s ( \tilde { V } )$ . Below we define an auxiliary function that retrieves the set of variables in a trajectory, which is useful in later definitions.

Definition 9 (Variables of a Trajectory). We denote by var (x), the set of variables $\vec { V }$ over which the trajectory x operates.

A trajectory that considers only a subset of the system variables can be obtained by projecting it over these variables.

Definition 10 (Trajectory projection). Given a set of variables $\vec { V } _ { ; }$ , the projection of a valuation $v a l \in V a l ( \Vec { V } )$ to $\bar { V } ^ { \prime } \subset \bar { V }$ , denoted by val $\downarrow _ { \vec { V } ^ { \prime } } \in \mathit { V a l } ( \vec { V } ^ { \prime } )$ , is defined such that $\forall X \in$ $\vec { V } ^ { \prime } , ( v a l \downarrow _ { \vec { V } ^ { \prime } } ) ( X ) = v a l ( X )$ . Furthermore, the projection of a trajectory $x : T \nrightarrow V a l ( \vec { V } )$ to ${ \vec { V } } ^ { \prime } \subset { \vec { V } }$ is a trajectory $T  V a l ( \vec { V } ^ { \prime } )$ , denoted by $x \downarrow _ { \vec { V } ^ { \prime } }$ , such that $\forall t \in d o m ( x ) , ( x \downarrow _ { \vec { V } ^ { \prime } } ) ( t ) =$ $x ( t ) \downarrow _ { \vec { V } ^ { \prime } }$ .
