# 2.2.1 Output-based NMPC

Output-based NMPC uses the predicted output and control input sequence to construct the cost function. However, unlike LMPC, the model used for prediction is nonlinear in the case of NMPC. The cost function for the output-based NMPC at time instant k is defined as in Eq. (11), using which the output-based NMPC problem can be defined as:

Problem 3 (Output-based NMPC). For the nonlinear system (26) with the output $\mathbf { y } _ { k \mid k }$ given, compute the control input sequence $\bar { \mathbf { U } } _ { k }$ by solving:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}, \mathbf {Y} _ {k + 1}} J _ {y}$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } \mathbf { Y } _ { k + 1 } \in \mathbb { Y } ^ { \mathrm { N } } , ~ \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } ^ { \mathrm { N } }$ (29)

$$\mathbf {x} _ {i + 1 | k} = \mathbf {f} (\mathbf {x} _ {i | k}, \mathbf {u} _ {i | k})\mathbf {y} _ {i | k} = \mathbf {h} (\mathbf {x} _ {i | k}), \quad k \in \mathbb {T}, i = k, \dots , k + N - 1.$$

The predicted output sequence $\mathbf { Y } _ { k + 1 }$ and control sequence ${ \bf U } _ { k }$ in Eq. (28) can be used to rewrite the optimization problem for output-based NMPC as:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}} \left[ \mathbf {Y} _ {r} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{yp}} \left(\mathbf {x} _ {k \mid k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {Q} _ {\mathbf {Y}} \left[ \mathbf {Y} _ {r} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{yp}} \left(\mathbf {x} _ {k \mid k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] + \left[ \mathbf {U} _ {r} - \mathbf {U} _ {k} \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {R} _ {\mathbf {U}} \left[ \mathbf {U} _ {r} - \mathbf {U} _ {k} \right] \tag {30}$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } \mathbf { f } _ { \mathrm { y p } } ( \mathbf { x } _ { k \left| k \right. } , \mathbf { U } _ { k } ) \in \mathbb { Y } ^ { \mathrm { N } } , ~ \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } ^ { \mathrm { N } } .$

Here the cost function and equality constraint contains the nonlinear function $\mathbf { f } _ { \mathrm { y p } }$ (built using the nonlinear functions f and h) which makes Eq. (30) an NLP. The output-based NMPC scheme is obtained by solving this NLP at every time instant and applying the first element of $\mathbf { U } _ { k } ^ { * }$ as the control input.
