Exogenous variables are determined by factors outside of the model while endogenous variables are affected by exogenous ones and also by other endogenous variables. For instance, going back to the autonomous vehicle example, vehicle A and B turns can be seen as endogenous variables, but the gravity and road friction that allow for the vehicles to steer can be seen as exogenous variables.

Definition 2 (Causal Model). A causal model over a signature S is a tuple

$$M = (\mathcal {S}, \mathcal {F}),$$

where F associates with each variable $X \in \nu$ a function denoted by $F _ { X }$ , such that:

$$F _ {X}: (\times_ {U \in \mathcal {U}} \mathcal {R} (U)) \times (\times_ {Y \in \mathcal {V} \backslash \{X \}} \mathcal {R} (Y)) \to \mathcal {R} (X)$$

$F _ { X }$ describes how the value of the endogenous variable X is determined by the values of all other variables in U ∪V. The indexed cartesian products $\scriptstyle \times _ { U \in { \mathcal { U } } } { \mathcal { R } } ( U )$ and $\times _ { Y \in \mathcal { V } \backslash \{ X \} } \mathcal { R } ( Y )$ consider each possible values of the variables in U and $\mathcal { V } \backslash \{ X \}$ , respectively. Considering our discrete example, the causal model would have the following endogenous variables:

• AT for (vehicle) A Turns: 1 if it turns right, and 0 if it does not.   
• BT for (vehicle) B Turns: 1 if it turns right, and 0 if it does not.   
• AH for A Hits: 1 if it hits the pedestrian, and 0 if it does not.   
• BH for B Hits: 1 if it hits the pedestrian, and 0 if it does not.   
• PH for Pedestrian Hit: 1 if the pedestrian is hit, and 0 if it is not.

The set U of exogenous variables comprises all information we need to assume so as to render all relationships deterministic (such as the presence of oxygen, gravity and the route the vehicles follow). We denote by ⃗u (i.e., a set of valuations in $\mathcal { R } ( \mathcal { U } ) )$ as the context of a cause. That is, the context is a mapping of exogenous variables to their values, which are used to induce the value of the endogenous variables. In our example, ⃗u can be seen as the context that makes the vehicle moving possible.
