There are quantitative extensions of the theory of actual causality. Pearl studies the effect of causality in probabilistic systems [54, 55], providing the underlying theory for causal inference [61, 57], which provides the mathematical tools and the language for articulating probabilities of causation. His work employs structural equations to cope with counterfactuals and randomisation and has applications in AI [56]. Baier et al. [12, 10] introduce and formalise cause-effect relation in Markov decision processes using the probability-raising principle. They provide algorithms for checking cause-effect relationships and the existence of probability-raising causes for given effect scenarios. To our knowledge their work does not use counter-factual reasoning and is not formally related to our formal theory of actual causality. With respect to the use of causal analysis in the formal verification process itself (and not just as a way to explain the results), Baier et al. [11] have presented a temporal logic characterisation for the notions of sufficiency and necessity, which are based on the concepts found in causal reasoning. They propose an optimisation algorithm for the computation of causes based on these degrees of necessity and sufficiency. Unlike our work, however, they do not cater for the continuous properties of physical systems but they do however consider stochastic aspects. We consider extending our results to quantitative and probabilistic notions as a worthwhile future direction.

Zhang et al. [67] propose a method for the online monitoring of Signal Temporal Logic (STL). Instead of computing the distance of the system’s output against the specification (called robustness value [29], also in our approach), they compute whether an ”instant” is relevant to a violation and how far the instant is from a violation. This bears some resemblence to our notion of actual cause. However, their work, unlike ours, does not formally relate to a theory of actual causality and does not pinpoint a cause by tying specific variables to specific time intervals.
