Beer et al. [14] use actual causality to explain counterexamples in hardware verification for Linear Temporal Logic properties. The proposed algorithm is implemented in the IBM RyleBase PE tool, where causality is applied to traces but ignores the system model from which the traces originated. Our assessment of causality considers both the setting and the model, which in our case also encompasses continuous and discrete aspects. This richer setting leads to a more computationally-intensive analysis but allows us to find causes in more complex systems and with more precision (steered by the model).

Dubslaff et al. [25] use counterfactual reasoning to identify causes in configurable systems. This is done by identifying the features and interactions that are the reason for emerging functional and non-functional properties. They call this concept feature causality. These notions are in clear contrast with the notion employed in our work where we start with a concrete scenario leading to the effect. Our choice is justified by our context, where we employ causal analysis as a step in the testing and verification process, where finding an error-trace or counterexample initiates the causal analysis process.

There are other theories of causality that are not concerned with a particular scenario. For example, Granger’s causality [33] is a statistical concept that checks the possibility of a time series predicting another. It employs notions of trends, seasonal patterns and noise in time series forecasting and can be applied to machine learning, finance and weather forecast [60].

Table 1 summarises the key difference between the above-surveyed techniques and our proposed framework by showing the supported features for each technique.

Table 1: A comparison between different methods for causal analysis.
