# 3.3 Subspace Predictive Control

Subspace predictive control (SPC) is a subspace-based D-LMPC approach introduced in [14]. SPC relies on training data as in Eq. (33) to construct input and output block Hankel matrices, which serve as a compact representation of the system’s dynamic behavior. These Hankel matrices capture the system’s temporal relationships and are used to estimate the system’s model parameters. By applying subspace identification techniques, the system’s predicted output dynamics can be derived from the data, enabling the formulation of an MPC controller. In SPC, the past data is used for identifying a model-based constraint, and then the future data predicted using the model is used in MPC to compute the optimal control input. This leads to the following horizons:

1. Future horizon (prediction horizon) N: number of future samples predicted using past data or current data.

2. Past horizon (measurement horizon) M: number of lags of past data used for identifying the model.   
3. Training horizon H: decides the number of training samples used for identifying the model.

In the SPC derivation next, we consider the past horizon equals future horizon M = N and only uses N, to simplify the notations. For the training data as in Eq. (33), and a given N and H, the input and output Hankel matrices can be constructed as:

$$
\mathbf {U} _ {\mathrm{p}} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathbf {u} _ {0} & \mathbf {u} _ {1} & \ldots & \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{H-1}} \\ \mathbf {u} _ {1} & \mathbf {u} _ {2} & \ldots & \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{H}} \\ \vdots & \vdots & & \vdots \\ \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{N-1}} & \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{N}} & \ldots & \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{N+H-2}} \end{array} \right] = [ \mathbf {U} _ {0} \quad \mathbf {U} _ {1} \quad \ldots \quad \mathbf {U} _ {\mathrm{H-1}} ] = \mathbf {H} _ {(\mathrm{N,H}, \mathbf {u} _ {0})} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {m \mathrm{N} \times \mathrm{H}}
