# 3.3 Experiments

Two experiments were selected to illustrate the capability of our DT-enabled infrastructure to facilitate (1) functional augmentation and (2) increased fault tolerance on the DT.

Setup: Both PT and DT execute the whole fortissimo rover model illustrated by the light blue components in Fig. 1a. Besides the mutual components, the PT and DT execute additional functionality and corresponding fallback mechanisms either for functional augmentation or for increased fault tolerance. Fig. 1a depicts the software architecture present in Experiment 1, where the dark blue components represent functional augmentation and corresponding fallback mechanism. The twins initiate the FMI-based co-simulation of the rover model in a synchronized manner. The PT sends all the environment inputs at every step, including sensor values and manual user inputs to the DT, so they can simulate in parallel, provided the same inputs. The execution of the whole system on both platforms given the same environment inputs is advantageous during early validation activities, such as conformance testing, where the co-developed DT can provide support in fault localization acting as an oracle. This, however, is beyond the scope of this work. For the purpose of this paper, the synchronization is such that, when available, the DT controls the stepping of the whole system. Otherwise, should the DT be unreachable, e.g. due to a communication breakdown, the PT either continues its intended operation if a fallback is available on the PT, or switches to a defined safe mode until the communication with the DT is re-instated. Moreover, in order to verify the availability of the twins, a mutual heartbeat mechanism is integrated into both twins — as the twins exchange heartbeats at each step, these signals are also used for synchronization, triggering the stepping of the FMUs on each side.
