# A. Model-Based System Description

The dynamics of an LTI system can be presented as

$$x _ {k + 1} = A x _ {k} + B u _ {k} + w _ {k}, \tag {1a}y _ {k} = x _ {k} + v _ {k}, \tag {1b}$$

where $x _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the system’s state, $u _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the control input, and $y _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the measurement vector. The matrices $A ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ and $B \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ are the state transition and input matrices, respectively. The system’s noise is governed by $\omega _ { k } \sim \mathcal { N } ( 0 , W )$ where $W \succ 0 \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ is its covariance. Furthermore, the measurement’s noise is distributed according to $v _ { k } \sim \mathcal { N } ( 0 , V )$ where $V \succ 0 \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ is its covariance. The control input is parameterized as

$$u _ {k} = K y _ {k}, \tag {2}$$

where $K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ is a static feedback gain that will be designed directly using the collected input-output data from the system. The model-based closed-loop system is

$$x _ {k + 1} = (A + B K) x _ {k} + B K v _ {k} + \omega_ {k}. \tag {3}$$

Assumption 1. The system’s noise covariance W and the measurement’s noise covariance V are known.

Definition 1 (Mean Square Stability (MSS)). [17], [18] For a given control policy $u _ { k } = h ( x _ { k } )$ , the system (1a) is called MSS if there exists a positive definite $\Sigma _ { \infty } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ such that lim ${ \bf \Phi } _ { k \to \infty } \left\| \mathbb { E } ( x _ { k } x _ { k } ^ { T } ) - { \bf \bar { \Phi } } _ { \infty } \right\| = 0$ and lim $\ O _ { k } \to _ { \infty } \| \mathbb { E } ( \ O _ { k } ) \| = 0$ . In this case, the control policy is called admissible.
