Due to min $\left( \exp ( z _ { i } ( t ) ^ { 2 } ) \right) = 1$ . Applying Lemma 1 such that con $\begin{array} { r } { h _ { 1 } = \frac { 1 + \frac { p _ { i } } { q _ { i } } } { 2 } < 1 } \end{array}$ qi due to cking er $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { p _ { i } } { q _ { i } } < 1 } \end{array}$ and xT st $c _ { 1 } = 2 \alpha _ { i 1 } > 0$ , wetling time.

$$T _ {i} ^ {\prime \prime} \leq \frac {1}{\alpha_ {i 1} (1 - \frac {p _ {i}}{q _ {i}})}, \tag {17}$$

Then, the tracking error is FxT stable with a bounded settling time $T _ { i } ( z _ { i } ) \leq \check { T _ { i } ^ { ' } } + T _ { i } ^ { ' \prime }$ as given in (10). Additionally, all tracking errors can converge with a settling time $T ( z )$ a s presented in (9).

Finally, the closed-loop system is globally FxT stable with a settling time $T _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ~ = ~ T ( s ) + T ( z )$ given by (8). This completes the proof.

Remark 3.1: As stated previously, the proposed method has the potential to achieve robustness with a single parameter, especially in integral sliding mode control with fixed-time convergence, compared to fixed-time controllers proposed in [15]. Moreover, the work in [15] does not include perturbations in the control design; the authors considered only free perturbations. However, our approach is robust against matched perturbations.

Remark 3.2: For setting the control parameters, only three parameters are required, in contrast to the approach developed in [15]. Our method simplifies tuning to achieve fixedtime convergence.

The estimated models $\hat { f } _ { i }$ are then given by [16]

$$\hat {f} _ {i} = \left[ \varrho_ {1, i} (x _ {i}) \quad \dots \quad \varrho_ {n, i} (x _ {i}) \right] ^ {T}, \tag {18}$$

where $\varrho _ { 1 , i } ( x _ { i } ) , \ldots , \varrho _ { n , i } ( x _ { i } )$ are the means of the GPs.
