• $A C 3 . \vec { X }$ is minimal; there is no strict subset ${ \vec { X ^ { \prime } } } \ o f \ \vec { X }$ such that $\vec { X ^ { \prime } } = \vec { x ^ { \prime } }$ satisfies conditions $A C 1$ and $A C { \mathcal { Q } } ,$ where $\vec { x ^ { \prime } }$ is the restriction of $\vec { x }$ to the variables in ${ \vec { X ^ { \prime } } }$ .

In this definition, the variables in the set $\vec { W }$ allow for the cause to be tested under certain circumstances where the variables in $\vec { W }$ (which can be empty) are kept to their original values $\vec { w }$ even if they were supposed to be modified by the intervention $\vec { X }  \vec { x } ^ { \prime }$ .

Consider the scenario in our autonomous vehicle example where $A T = 0 , B T = 0 , A H =$ $1 , B H = 0 , P H = 1 , u _ { A } = 0$ , and $u _ { B } = 0$ . In our signature, we identify AT, BT, AH, BH and P H as endogenous variables $( \nu )$ and $u _ { A }$ and $u _ { B }$ as exogenous variables $( \mathcal { U } ) ;$ we would like to assess whether $A T = 0$ is the cause of the pedestrian being hit $( P H = 1 )$ .

AC1 states that $( { \vec { X } } = { \vec { x } } )$ cannot be a cause of Φ, unless both the primitive causal events $( { \vec { X } } = { \vec { x } } )$ and the effect Φ are true in the causal model M, given the context $\vec { u } .$ That is, it states that for $A T = 0$ to be the cause of $P H = 1$ , then both need to be true in $( M , \vec { u } )$ ; thus, in this scenario, AC1 holds. Conversely, if we were trying to assess whether $B T = 1$ is the cause of $P H = 1$ then, AC1 could not be satisfied, as $B T = 1$ is not true in (M, ⃗u) and, therefore, it could not be considered a cause.

AC2 states that for $( { \vec { X } } = { \vec { x } } )$ to be a cause of Φ, there must exist alternative values for the set $\vec { X }$ that leads to Φ not holding. This is under the assumption that there might exist a set of variables $\vec { W }$ that must be kept in its original value. To understand this concept, let us start with $\vec { W } = \{ \}$ and assume we apply the intervention $A T \gets 1$ . This leads to vehicle A turning which results in vehicle B hitting the pedestrian $( B H = 1 )$ and, thus, the pedestrian is still hit $( P H = 1 )$ ; clearly, AC2 does not hold in this case. However, if we set $\vec { W } = \{ B H \}$ and, hence, we maintain the value of variable BH even under the intervention $( A T \gets 1 )$ we have that neither car hits the vehicle $( A H , B H = 0 )$ and the pedestrian is not hit $( P H = 0 )$ . Consequentially, we have that $( M , \vec { u } ) |  = [ A T  1 , B H  0 ] \neg ( P H = 1 )$ holds. This example shows the need for the set W .

Finally, AC3 asserts that the identified cause is minimal. In our scenario, it prevents $( A T = 0 \land B T = 0 )$ from being a cause, since $( A T = 0 )$ suffices to satisfy AC2. Thus, AC3 also holds and we can say that, in $( M , \vec { u } ) , ( A T = 0 )$ is a cause of $( P H = 1 )$ .
