The graphical representation of causal networks such as these are not used in the underlying theory nor in the implementation (see Section 5); however, they provide a visual aid to understand the examples.

Finally, to make the definition of cause precise, we first need a syntax for causal events. Given a signature $ { \boldsymbol { S } } = (  { \mathcal { U } } ,  { \mathcal { V } } ,  { \mathcal { R } } )$ , a formula of the form $X = x ,$ for $X \in \nu$ and $x \in { \mathcal { R } } ( X )$ , is called a primitive event.

Definition 3 (Causal Formula). A causal formula is of the form

$$[ X _ {1} \leftarrow x _ {1}, \dots , X _ {k} \leftarrow x _ {k} ] \Phi , w h e r e$$

• $X _ { 1 } , . . . , X _ { k }$ are distinct variables in V.   
• $x _ { i } \in \mathcal { R } ( X _ { i } )$ . And,

• Φ is a Boolean combination of primitive events.

The formula $[ X _ { 1 }  x _ { 1 } , . . . , X _ { k }  x _ { k } ] \Phi$ states that Φ holds in a system where $X _ { i }$ is set to $x _ { i }$ for $i = 1 , . . . , k$ . Such a formula can be abbreviated as $[ { \vec { X } }  { \vec { x } } ] \Phi$ .

Definition 4 (Intervention). Given a causal model $M = ( \mathcal { S } , \mathcal { F } = \{ \mathcal { F } _ { X _ { 1 } } , \mathcal { F } _ { X _ { 2 } } . . . , \mathcal { F } _ { X _ { k } } \} )$ , and a set of assignments $[ X _ { 1 }  x _ { 1 } , . . . , X _ { k }  x _ { k } ]$ , an intervention on the causal model M, denoted by $M _ { \vec { X }  \vec { x } } = ( \mathcal { S } , \mathcal { F } _ { \vec { X }  \vec { x } } )$ , is a modification to the structural equations in the causal model M such that $\forall i \in \{ 1 , . . . , k \} , \mathcal { F } _ { X _ { i } } = x _ { i }$ .

An intervention of the type $X  x$ can be interpreted as an update in F where the function for X is set just to x. We define a satisfaction relation between causal model and causal formulae next.

Definition 5 (Satisfaction Relation). Given a causal model $M = ( S = ( \mathcal { U } = \{ U _ { 1 } , . . . , U _ { m } \}$ , $\nu , \mathcal { R } ) , \mathcal { F } )$ , a context $\vec { u } = \{ u _ { 1 } , . . . , u _ { m } \}$ , and a primitive event $( Y ~ = ~ y )$ , the satisfaction relation between the causal model, the context and the event, denoted by $( M , { \vec { u } } ) \models ( Y = y )$ , holds if, and only if, $( { \mathcal { F } } _ { Y } \in { \mathcal { F } } \wedge U _ { 1 } = u _ { 1 } , . . . , U _ { m } = u _ { m } ) \implies { \mathcal { F } } _ { Y } = y .$ .
