Furthermore, for a notion of causality for CPSs, one needs to take time into consideration. For instance, faults may have been caused by trajectory slices occurring at specific time intervals. That is, if these trajectory slices had occurred in different intervals, the fault may not have happened. Thus, one cannot ignore the history of the system execution. This way, we aim to identify not only to which components the fault should be attributed, but also provide the intervals of time when the causal behaviour has occurred in the respective components.

Finally, one must consider the continuous and infinite nature of physical phenomena. The way system variables affect each other can determine whether a cause comprises one or multiple interacting variables. It is possible that multiple alternative causes can be found for a single failure.

We mechanised our causal analysis using the Matlab/Simulink framework, which is a commonly used environment for modelling and analysis of control systems, thus increasing the accessibility of our strategy to the CPSs community. We developed a search-based algorithm to find the causes and integrated the mechanisation of our theory of actual causality into our pre-existing tool for testing cyber-physical systems [8]. We applied the developed algorithms and tools to a range of case studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of our strategy, where we pinpoint causes and present explanations for failures that have been detected in the verification process.
