# 5.2.3 Searching for causes

We present, in this and in the next section (using the example), the algorithms both for the search (Algorithm 1) and for determining causality (Algorithm 2).

The function iterates through each endogenous variable (line 3) and intervals of trajectory c (line 4). In order to generate new trajectory slices, we apply a search heuristic (in this case, genetic algorithm [49]) to find data points that will form the alternative trajectory slices for variables in the cause and in the contingency set (line 5). For that, we use the Global Optimisation toolbox [1] for Matlab. The algorithm works on a population and attempts to find the global maxima or minima of a (fitness) function. A population is a set of points in the design space and it is initially generated randomly. The algorithm computes the next generation of the population by interacting with the fitness function and the individuals in the current generation until it finds the maxima. Our fitness function aims to generate slices that are diverse (in terms of distance and shape) from the slice that led to the fault.

Directly connecting the data points yielded by the search would result in an erratic curve. To mitigate this issue, in SearchHeuristic, we employ a notion of curve fitting using a fourth degree polynomial equation as a smoothing function [35]. This results in a smoother behaviour with the trade-off of the resulting curve being an approximation to the data points obtained by the search, instead of an exact match. As an alternative fit, one can use polynomial interpolation, which would result in a smooth curve that would exactly fit the points yielded by the search. However, this greatly increases computational costs since it requires functions with polynomial degree of (n-1), where n is the number of data points. The search typically yields thousands of data points, hence, for such large numbers, interpolation is impractical.

Once we have the alternative trajectories for variables in a prospective cause (sets X⃗ and W⃗ ), we call a function isCause that will check for actual causality (the details of this function can be seen in Algorithm 2). If positive, then causes are added to the outputting set (line 8). We represent a cause as a tuple composed by the original hazardous trajectory c, the variables in the cause, and the time interval.
