Remark 2. The data-based closed-loop covariance expression in (29) includes an additional term, $\mathrm { T r } ( G \Sigma _ { k } G ^ { \top } ) W$ , which is absent in the formulation presented in [5]. This discrepancy arises because [5] neglects the contribution of the term $\Omega _ { 0 } G$ in the parameterization of the closed-loop matrix $A + B K$ . In contrast, our approach explicitly models $\Omega _ { 0 } G$ as a random variable, allowing us to capture the effect of process noise propagation through the gain matrix G. Moreover, the presence of measurement noise introduces further terms into the covariance structure. This enhanced, uncertainty-aware covariance formulation contributes to the robustness of the synthesized feedback gain.

Theorem 3 (Data-driven LQR Using Noisy Measurements). Consider the system (1a) with closed-loop data-based parameterization (27) and the steady state covariance (28). Let Assumptions 1-4 hold and $x _ { 0 }$ be a given initial condition. Then, the optimal state feedback matrix $K \ = \ U _ { 0 } G$ that minimizes the LQR cost (22) can be computed through the following SDP

$$\min _ {\beta > 0, M, \Sigma , H, S, Z, E, F} \quad \beta \tag {30a}s. t. \quad Y _ {1} (H + Z) Y _ {1} ^ {\top} + T r (H + Z) (W + V) - \Sigma + W \preceq 0 \tag {30b}
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} E & F \\ * & S \end{array} \right] \succeq 0, \tag {30c}

\left[ \begin{array}{l l} H & F \\ F ^ {\top} & \Sigma \end{array} \right] \succeq 0, \tag {30d}

\left[ \begin{array}{c c} S & \Sigma \\ * & V \end{array} \right] \succeq 0, \tag {30e}
U _ {0} (Z - E) U _ {0} ^ {\top} = 0 _ {m \times m}, \tag {30f}Y _ {0} F = \Sigma , U _ {0} M = I _ {m}, Y _ {0} M = 0 _ {n \times m}, \tag {30g}T r (Q \Sigma) + T r (R U _ {0} H U _ {0} ^ {\top}) + T r (R U _ {0} E U _ {0} ^ {\top}) \leq \beta , \tag {30h}$$

where $\boldsymbol { G } = \boldsymbol { F } \boldsymbol { \Sigma } ^ { - 1 }$ . Then, the gain $K = U _ { 0 } F \Sigma ^ { - 1 }$ guarantees MSS of the actual closed-loop system (3).

Proof. By using the characteristics of the trace and the steadystate covariance definition (28), the cost (22) can be simplified as

$$J (K) = \operatorname{Tr} (Q \Sigma) + \operatorname{Tr} \left(R K \Sigma K ^ {\top}\right) + \operatorname{Tr} \left(R K V K ^ {\top}\right). \tag {31}$$

Now, consider the multiplication inside the second trace term

$$
\begin{array}{l} K \Sigma K ^ {\top} = U _ {0} G \Sigma G ^ {\top} U _ {0} ^ {\top} = U _ {0} F \Sigma^ {- 1} F ^ {\top} U _ {0} ^ {\top}, \\ = U _ {0} H U _ {0} ^ {\top}, \tag {32} \\ \end{array}
$$
