# Example 1: Active Car Suspension

Consider the following two degrees of freedom quarter-car suspension system [22], [23]

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {x} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} 0 & 1 & 0 & - 1 \\ - \frac {k _ {s}}{m} & - \frac {b _ {s}}{m _ {s}} & 0 & \frac {b _ {s}}{m _ {s}} \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ \frac {k _ {s}}{m _ {u}} & \frac {b _ {s}}{m _ {u}} & - \frac {k _ {t}}{m _ {u}} & - \frac {b _ {s}}{m _ {u}} \end{array} \right] x (t) \\ + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ \frac {1}{m _ {s}} \\ 0 \\ - \frac {1}{m _ {u}} \end{array} \right] u (t) + \omega (t), \tag {35} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $x ~ = ~ \left[ x _ { 1 } \quad x _ { 2 } \quad x _ { 3 } \quad x _ { 4 } \right] ^ { T }$ .
The states $x _ { 1 } , \ x _ { 2 } , \ x _ { 3 } .$ and $x _ { 4 }$ show the suspension deflection, absolute velocity of sprung mass, tire deflection, and absolute velocity of unsprung $m _ { s } ~ = ~ 2 4 0$ $m _ { u } ~ = ~ 3 6 ~ k g ,$ $\begin{array} { r } { \boldsymbol { b _ { s } } = 9 8 0 \ \frac { \boldsymbol { N _ { \cdot s } } } { m } , \boldsymbol { k _ { s } } = 1 6 0 0 0 \ \frac { \boldsymbol { N } } { m } , } \end{array}$ $\begin{array} { r } { k _ { t } = { 1 } \mathrm { { \bar { 6 } } 0 0 0 0 } \mathrm { { \frac { \partial { \nu } } { m } } } } \end{array}$ the quarter-car equivalent of vehicle body mass, the unsprung mass due to axle and tire, suspension damper, suspension spring, and vertical stiffness spring respectively.
The sampling time used for data collection is $T _ { s } ~ = ~ 0 .
0 5 ~ s$ .
The noise vector $\omega ( t )$ shows uncertainties in system dynamics due to modeling errors and random vertical road displacement, which is assumed to have a Gaussian distribution with zero mean and the covariance matrix $W = 1 0 ^ { - 7 } I$ .
The control input $u ( t )$ represents the active force actuator of the suspension system.
The measurement noise covariance is $V = 2 \times 1 0 ^ { - 5 } I .$ .
The following input is applied to the system $u _ { k } = 4 0 0 \eta _ { k }$ , where $\eta _ { k }$ is a zero-mean and unit-variance Gaussian noise.
We have generated 150 sets of input-(noisy )output data with $N = 1 0$ and designed $N _ { K } = 1 5 0$ controllers using this data.
For each of the designed controllers, $N _ { S } = 5 0$ simulations of $N _ { P } = 2 0$ sample points are performed.
The initial condition is chosen as $\left[ 0 .
\dot { 3 } - 4 0 .
1 \dot { - } 1 \right] ^ { T }$ .
The optimal model-based gain $K ^ { * }$ for $Q = d i a g ( 1 0 0 0 0 , \dot { 1 } , 1 , 1 )$ and $R = 0 .
0 0 0 0 0 1$ is in the first row of Table I.
The Stable Eigenvalues column reports the eigenvalues of the actual closed-loop system when using the controller gain derived from noisy data.
The Success Count column indicates the number of instances in which the optimization problem was successfully solved based on the collected data.
In the first scenario (as depicted in Figure 1) we choose $\alpha = 0$ for the DDLCLQR method.
Simulation results in the second to fourth rows of Table I show that DDNSMLQR performs well with a high success rate and the least gain error.
