Halpern and Pearl also introduced the notion of time-indexed endogenous variables [39]; this treatment of time in the original theory of Halpern is discrete in nature and does not cater for continuous time and dynamics that are necessary to model cyber-physical systems. In order to use this definition of Halpern and Pearl, one needs to define a fixed discretisation of continuous variables and come up with a causal model explaining their relationships. Our theory, however, provides an abstraction layer that works directly with the continuous specification of the dynamics and builds the necessary sampling as a part of the analysis. In a recent extension of their work, Peters and Halpern propose the generalised structural equations models (GSEM) [58] where a signature comprises a set of interventions and the equations map an intervention to a set of outcomes (e.g., when variable X is set to x, then variable Y is equal to y and variable Z is equal to z). It brings about the possibility of having an infinite set of valuations for variables. Furthermore, Halpern shows that this can be adapted to ordinary differential equations; in his treatment, instead of having a set of endogenous variables, the signature comprises the value of a variable at any moment in time, as defined by differential equations. This recent extension may be a theoretical alternative to our proposed framework; however, to apply any practical causal analysis on this infinite set of variables, further abstractions and algorithmic procedures need to be developed. In principle, our work can be adapted to deal with the many variants of Halpern and Pearl’s theory of actual causality.

Apart from the variants developed by Halpern and Pearl, there are many other definitions of actual causality by others. In the remainder of this section, we review some of the most relevant variants or applications of actual causality developed by other researchers. Subsequently, we also mention some alternative theories, to actual causality, that can be used and extended for finding root causes in CPSs.

Several works employ the definitions of causality by Halpern and Pearl to formal verification; often as a reasoning tool for explaining counterexamples in the discrete domain. The most relevant to our work are discussed below.
