Lastly, we note how the set ⃗w is a subset of $T r a j s ( \vec { W } ) \cap \mathcal { R }$ . While this may seem counterintuitive, the reason is that this enables a sound mechanisation of this theory. Suppose one is to determine whether $( c  \vec { x } )$ is a cause of a Φ. This requires one to evaluate whether, for all possible variables in $\vec { W }$ , there exists any set of trajectory slices $\vec { w }$ that would result in a subset of $\vec { x }$ satisfying AC1 and AC2. This is intractable. Hence, instead, a mechanisation of this theory can restrict the set R to a countable set of trajectories (found, for instance, by a search heuristic).

We use Example 4 to explain Definition 18. Consider that the trajectory x from Figure 9a is $c ,$ that is, the scenario where a failure was observed. We define Φ as $\lnot ( c \downarrow _ { \mathit { s p e e d } } )$ $\le _ { [ 8 . 9 , 9 ) } 0 )$ , which holds if the variable speed is greater than 0 at any point in the interval [8.9, 9). Essentially, we are checking the causes for the vehicle not stopping around the 9 seconds mark.

Now, we determine whether $c  \{ x \downarrow _ { \{ b r a k e s \} } \}$ is a cause for Φ. Clearly, AC1 holds; both the cause and the effect are true in the model. Further, the cause is a singleton, which means it is minimal; thus AC3 holds. As for AC2, the set $\dot { \vec { W } }$ can be empty. Consider that $ { \vec { X } } = \lbrace b r a k e s \rbrace$ and $\vec { W } = \{ \}$ and consider the trajectory $\{ y \downarrow _ { \{ b r a k e s \} } \}$ (from Figure 9b) as our alternative set of trajectories. It is clear that AC2 is satisfied as $( M _ { \vec { X }  \vec { y } } \downarrow _ { \{ b r a k e s \} } , u ) \vdash \lnot \Phi$ holds. We can see in Figure 9b that, when we increase the brakes, the car fully stops before the 9 seconds mark. We note that constants do not change over time and, thus, the value for the braking coefficient is set at the beginning of the scenario and is the same throughout. When an intervention is applied to such a variable, its value must change for the entire duration of its trajectory.

We further exemplify our theory of causality for CPSs (particularly, Definition 16) in Section 5.2. We provide our algorithm for causal assessment and use another concrete example for its explanation.
