There are fault localisation techniques that are not causality-based. For instance, faulttree analysis [27] is an established method to investigate faults in safety critical systems. In fault trees, a graphical representation captures the logical connections between faults and their origins. Similar to our causal analysis, fault tree analysis starts from a failure event, which is represented at the top of the tree and then it is worked backwards to determine the root causes. In order to cope with dynamic systems, fault trees have been extended to include quantitative dependability analysis. Several approaches have been proposed and used such as dynamic fault trees [26], state-event fault trees [45], spectrum-based fault localisation [4], and Stochastic Hybrid Fault Tree Automaton [20]. Temporal Fault Trees [53] are one such extension, which, to our knowledge, can only handle discrete time. There are other approaches that define continuous semantics for Dynamic Fault Trees in terms of Timed Markov Chains [17, 44]. Our approach has a number of general advantages over these approaches: (i) we provide a rigorous definition of causality and base our fault localisation on this definition, (ii) we directly employ data (in the form of trajectories) from the actual systems instead of building an intermediate representation, which, unless proven, may not be consistent with the actual system, (iii) our work is based on a generic semantic framework and can be instantiated for many different semantics for faults and conformance. We expect that the ideas developed in this paper can be applied to those non-causal theories of fault localisation; however, this may require a reformulation of the basic concepts.
