# 2.1.2 State-based LMPC

State-based MPC uses the predicted state and control input sequence to construct the cost function. The state reference is denoted by $\mathbf { x } _ { \mathrm { r } } ,$ , which can be a constant or time-varying. For a prediction horizon N, the cost function for the statebased LMPC at time instant k is defined as

$$J _ {x} = \sum_ {i = k} ^ {k + N - 1} \left[ \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {x} _ {i + 1 | k} \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {Q} _ {\mathbf {x} _ {i + 1 | k}} \left[ \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {x} _ {i + 1 | k} \right] + \left[ \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {u} _ {i | k} \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {R} _ {\mathbf {u} _ {i | k}} \left[ \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {u} _ {i | k} \right] \tag {22}$$

where $\mathbf { Q } _ { \mathbf { x } _ { i + 1 \mid k } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ is the state weighting matrix, $\mathbf { R } _ { \mathbf { u } _ { i \mid k } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times m }$ is the input weighting matrix. Using the above cost function and constraints in Eq. (6), the state-based LMPC problem is defined as below:

Problem 2 (State-based LMPC). Given the current state ${ \bf x } _ { k \left| k \right. }$ , compute the control input sequence $\mathbf { U } _ { k }$ for the LTI system in $E q .$ . (38) by solving:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}, \mathbf {X} _ {k + 1}} J _ {x}$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } \mathbf { X } _ { k + 1 } \in \mathbb { X } ^ { \mathrm { N } } , ~ \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } ^ { \mathrm { N } }$ (23)

$$\mathbf {x} _ {i + 1 | k} = \mathbf {A x} _ {i | k} + \mathbf {B u} _ {i | k}, \quad k \in \mathbb {T}, i = k, \dots , k + N - 1.$$

Using $\mathbf { X } _ { k + 1 } , \mathbf { U } _ { k }$ from Eq. (8) and defining $\mathbf { Q } _ { \mathbf { X } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \mathrm { N } \times n \mathrm { N } } , \mathbf { X } _ { \mathrm { r } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \mathrm { N } }$ similar to Eq. (13), the MPC optimization problem in Eq. (23) can be represented as:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}} \left[ \mathbf {X} _ {r} - \left(\mathbf {A} _ {\mathbf {X}} \mathbf {x} _ {k | k} + \mathbf {B} _ {\mathbf {X}} \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {Q} _ {\mathbf {X}} \left[ \mathbf {X} _ {r} - \left(\mathbf {A} _ {\mathbf {X}} \mathbf {x} _ {k | k} + \mathbf {B} _ {\mathbf {X}} \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] + \left[ \mathbf {U} _ {r} - \mathbf {U} _ {k} \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {R} _ {\mathbf {U}} \left[ \mathbf {U} _ {r} - \mathbf {U} _ {k} \right] \tag {24}$$
