Caltais, Mousavi, and Singh [18] define a theory of actual causality for labelled transition systems. Their formalisation is inspired by the definition of Halpern and Pearl. Their main result is a theory to explain counterexamples in model checking with respect to properties in Hennesy-Milner Logic [42]. They mechanise their theory in a prototype tool, which interacts with the mCRL2 model-checker [34] in order to check the various conditions in their definition of actual causality. Our work shares a similar nature of employing causality to interpret traces leading to failures. However, we employ models and logic that consider quantitative aspects, such as trajectories that are solutions to systems of differential equations.

Ibrahim et al. [43] provide a process to convert attack trees, fault trees, and timed failure propagation graphs for CPSs into Halpern-Pearl causal models. They illustrate their approach using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle case study. Even though their work, like ours, focuses on CPS-related aspects, it does not handle continuous aspects of such systems.

In the context of hardware verification, Chockler, Grumberg, and Yadgar [21] employ a notion of responsibility (degree of causality) [22] to improve the quality of abstraction refinement by producing mode efficient counterexamples. Besides the continuous aspects, our approach incorporates the modelling of platform (hardware), controllers (software) and environment into a single model that considers a high-level abstraction of the system. We do not consider such a notion of responsibility, however; this is one of the directions for our future work.
