$\bullet \ A C 1 . \ ( M , u ) \models ( c  \vec { x } ) \wedge \Phi ,$   
• $A C { \mathcal { Q } } .$ . There exists a set of variables $\vec { W } \subset \nu$ and two sets of trajectories $\vec { x } ^ { \prime } \in A l t s ( \vec { x } )$ , and $\vec { w } \subseteq T r a j s ( \vec { W } ) \cap \mathcal { R }$ such that if $( M , u ) \mathrel { \mathop { = } } ( c \longleftrightarrow \vec { w } )$ , then:

$$(M _ {\vec {X} \leftarrow \vec {x} ^ {\prime}, \vec {W} \leftarrow \vec {w}}, u) \models \neg \Phi$$

This extension of the original definition for discrete systems (see Definition 6) fully considers continuous trajectories and time intervals, with cause being established using trajectory slices. We aimed for a conservative extension, however a few things are to be considered.

Firstly, in the original definition, Halpern uses ⃗u to describe the set of exogenous variables and valuations. In our definition, a trajectory contains multiple variables and their valuation over time, thus a trajectory $u \in T r a j s ( \mathcal { U } )$ that contains all exogenous variables and their valuation over time is used.

Secondly, the minimality clause, AC3, now focus on trajectory slices rather than variables. In the original theory, AC3 states that no subset of the variables and their specific values in the prospective cause should satisfy AC2. In our extension, however, we employ trajectory slices, which are already defined based on both variables and values. Thus, given that a particular list of trajectory slices (⃗x) satisfies both AC1 and AC2, then no subset of ⃗x should satisfy AC1 and AC2 in order to satisfy AC3.

Thirdly, our theory does not restrict Φ to only endogenous variables. In the original work, strictly speaking, endogenous variables could not affect exogenous ones, thus they could not be included in Φ. In this work, however, this is not needed nor included in the definition as the choice of endogenous variables is a user choice in order to make the performance of the causality checks viable in practical settings (more on that in Section 6.4).
