$$
\hat {\mathbf {Y}} _ {\mathrm{D}} = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l l} \hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {1} & \hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {2} & \dots & \hat {\mathbf {Y}} _ {\mathrm{D}} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l l} \mathbf {y} _ {1} & \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {y} _ {1}, \mathbf {u} _ {1}) & \dots & \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\dots \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {y} _ {1}, \mathbf {u} _ {1}), \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{D} - 1}) \end{array} \right] = \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{yp}} (\boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}}) \tag {70}
$$

using which the prediction error for RNN is defined as:

$$L _ {y _ {\mathrm{RNN}}} = \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {\mathrm{D}} \| \mathbf {y} _ {k} - \hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k} \| ^ {2} = \| \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \hat {\mathbf {Y}} _ {\mathrm{D}} \| _ {F} ^ {2} = \operatorname{trace} \left(\left[ \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{yp}} (\boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}}) \right] ^ {\top} \left[ \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{yp}} (\boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}}) \right]\right) \tag {71}$$

which is considered the loss function for the RNN training problem:

$$\min _ {\boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathrm{f}}} L _ {y _ {\mathrm{RNN}}}. \tag {72}$$

The dynamic model identified with RNN can be used for designing output-based NMPC schemes. Given the output reference $\mathbf { y } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ , the control reference $\mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ can be computed by solving the steady-state equation:

$$\mathbf {y} _ {k + 1} = \mathbf {y} _ {k} = \mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{r}} \implies \mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{r}}, \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{r}}; \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}} ^ {*}) = 0. \tag {73}$$

Now with $\mathbf { y } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ and $\mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { r } } .$ the MPC optimization problem can be constructed as in Eq. (30) with ${ \bf x } _ { k \left| k \right. }$ is replaced by $\mathbf { y } _ { k \mid k }$ , and optimized for finding the control sequence. The algorithm for RNN-based NMPC is summarized below:

Algorithm 5 : RNN-based D-NMPC   
1: Require $U_{D}$ and $Y_{D}$ 2: Select L, $n_{1}, \ldots, n_{L}$ 3: Initialize $\theta_{f}$ 4: Compute $\theta_{f}^{*}$ by solving Eq. (72)
5: Select N, $y_{r}$ , $Q_{y}$ , $R_{u}$ . Construct $Q_{Y}$ and $R_{U}$ as in Eq. (13)
6: Compute $u_{r}$ by solving Eq. (73)
7: Initialize $U_{k}$ 8: for k = 0 to $N_{T} - 1$ do
9: Compute $Y_{r_{k}}$ using $y_{r}$ and $U_{r_{k}}$ using $u_{r}$ as in Eq. (13)
10: Compute $U_{k}^{*}$ by solving Eq. (30) with $x_{k|k}$ is replaced by $y_{k|k}$ 11: Apply $u_{k|k} = U_{k(1:m)}^{*}$ to the system
12: end for
