Note that the SysID part can be performed either offline (only once before implementing the MPC scheme) or online (at each time instant or whenever required based on some event-based criteria). The optimal model parameter: $\pmb { \theta } _ { \mathbf { x } } ^ { * }$ identified by solving the above optimization problem can be used for designing output or state-based LMPC as in Section 2.1 which results in PEM-based D-LMPC. Note that since state-space models are not unique, the system parameters that fit a given input-output data are not unique and depends on the initial state. The optimal parameters $\mathbf { \bar { A } } ^ { * } , \mathbf { B } ^ { * } , \mathbf { C } ^ { * }$ obtained by PEM is corresponding to a specific initial condition $\mathbf { x } _ { 0 } ^ { * }$ and therefore may not match with actual system parameters A, B, C. Here, we are considering a state-based LMPC implementation for which the state and control references $\mathbf { x } _ { \mathrm { r } } , \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ are computed using the steady-state criteria: ${ \bf x } _ { k + 1 } = { \bf x } _ { k } = { \bf x } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ and $\mathbf { y } _ { k } = \mathbf { y } _ { 1 }$ r resulting in:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {A} ^ {*} \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}} + \mathbf {B} ^ {*} \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{r}} \\ \mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {C} ^ {*} \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}} \end{array} \right] = \mathbf {0}. \tag {65}
$$

Solving the above equation for a known $\mathbf { y } _ { r }$ gives $\mathbf { x } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ and $\mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ which can be used to implement state-based LMPC. The algorithm for PEM-based D-LMPC is given below:

Algorithm 4 : PEM-based D-LMPC   
1: Require $U_{D}$ and $Y_{D}$ 2: Select N
3: Initialize $\theta_{x}$ 4: Compute $\theta_{x}^{*}$ (contains $A^{*}, B^{*}, C^{*}$ ) by solving Eq. (64).
5: Select N, $y_{r}$ , $Q_{x}$ , $R_{u}$ . Construct $Q_{X}$ and $R_{U}$ as in Eq. (13)
6: Compute $x_{r}$ and $u_{r}$ by solving Eq. (65)
7: Initialize $U_{k}$ 8: for k = 0 to $N_{T} - 1$ do
9: Compute $X_{r}$ and $U_{r}$ as in Eq. (13)
10: Compute $U_{k}^{*}$ by solving Eq. (30) with $x_{k|k}$ is replaced by $y_{k|k}$ 11: Apply $u_{k|k} = U_{k(1:m)}^{*}$ to the system
12: end for
