# 1.1 Problem definition and contributions

Our research goal is to propose a formal theory and a practical analysis technique for checking causality that can cope with the complexity of CPSs. The main contributions of this work are the following:

• We extend the theory of actual causality [39] to cope with CPSs. The new theory takes time and continuous dynamics into consideration.   
• We develop a process for checking causality and mechanise the associated algorithms in MATLAB and integrate them with our tool, HyConf [8], for conformance testing of CPSs.   
• We propose and discuss practical applications of causality in the verification of CPSs.   
• We apply the developed algorithms and tools to a range of case studies and evaluate the effectiveness of our strategy.

Applying a systematic and formal methodology to determine the cause of a failure in a CPS requires structured notions of faults and causes using mathematical notations. We work in a mathematical framework where faults are represented using first-order formulae, in which atomic predicates are expressed over signal values (akin to safety subset of Signal Temporal Logic [48]). Causes are expressed using intervals of trajectories, which we call trajectory slices, of the system variables leading to the falsification of such properties.

Causes are determined using a causal model, which is a representation of the system dynamics using structural equations. In this model, we separate variables into endogenous and exogenous sets; the former represents the set of variables that are chosen to undergo the causal analysis and can be seen as potential causes. The latter are variables that affect the system but are not seen as potential causes. In a practical setting, having too many endogenous variables greatly increases the costs of the causal analysis in CPSs. Hence, the choice of endogenous and exogenous variables is left to the user and has an impact on the variables that can appear in the cause and the efficiency of the causal analysis.
