Theorem 1 establishes a foundation for deriving a data-driven formulation without the need to explicitly account for the uncertain term $A \Upsilon _ { 0 } G$ in the data-driven representation of the closed-loop matrix (9a). Specifically, it ensures that the righthand side of (13) can serve as a valid data-driven realization of the nominal closed-loop system $A + B K$ . The corresponding stability analysis in the data-driven setting is formalized in Theorem 2.

Theorem 2 (Data-driven MSS). Consider the system (1) and let the data collected from this system be given as (4), and Assumptions 1-3 hold. Let there exists $a \ \gamma > 0 \ f o r$ which the data-driven control gain $K \ = \ U _ { 0 } G$ with $G = F Y ^ { - 1 } $ and $Y = P ^ { - 1 }$ solves the following program

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c c} - Y & (Y _ {1} F) ^ {T} & F ^ {T} \\ * & - Y & 0 \\ * & * & - \gamma I \end{array} \right] \preceq 0. \tag {17a}
Y _ {0} F = Y, \tag {17b}T r \left((V + W) ^ {- 1} Y\right) - \gamma n ^ {2} \geq 0, \tag {17c}\gamma > 0, \tag {17d}$$

Then, the closed-loop system is MSS.

Proof. Based on Theorem 1, the MSS of the uncertain datadriven representation outlined in (13) results in the MSS of the closed-loop system. On the other hand, (13) is MSS if there exists $P > 0$ such that

$$\mathbb {E} \left[ G ^ {\top} \left(Y _ {1} - \Upsilon_ {1} - \Omega_ {0}\right) ^ {\top} P \left(Y _ {1} - \Upsilon_ {1} - \Omega_ {0}\right) G \right] - P \preceq 0. \tag {18}$$

By treating columns of $\Upsilon _ { 1 }$ and $\Omega _ { 0 }$ as Gaussian random variables and taking the expectation concerning those random variables, one has

$$G ^ {\top} Y _ {1} ^ {\top} P Y _ {1} G + G ^ {\top} T r (P W + P V) G - P \preceq 0, \tag {19}$$

where

$$G ^ {\top} \mathbb {E} [ \Upsilon_ {1} ^ {\top} P \Upsilon_ {1} + \Omega_ {0} ^ {\top} P \Omega_ {0} ] G = G ^ {\top} T r (P W + P V) G.$$

By pre- and post-multiplying both sides of the inequality (19) by $P ^ { - 1 }$ , using the Schur-complement twice, and the following inequalities

$$\frac {1}{T r ((V + W) ^ {- 1} Y)} < \frac {T r (P (W + V))}{n ^ {2}}, \tag {20}T r (P (W + V)) \leq \frac {1}{\gamma} \tag {21}$$

the data-driven MSS LMI (17a) and inequality (17c) are resulted, where $\gamma \ > \ 0$ is a decision variable. The term $G ^ { \top } T r ( P W + P V ) G$ in (19) brings robustness into the design of the data-driven controller. This completes the proof.
