Experiment 1: Augmenting PT Capabilities The DT and the rover are initiated, and soon after, the Advanced ACC feature is activated manually (at 08:36:38). As there are no obstacles in front of the vehicle, the ACC increases the Target Acceleration and Velocity (as illustrated in Fig. 1b, left column), causing the rover to start driving. The functionality of the advanced ACC provided by the DT is tested first (at 08:37:10), by placing obstacles in the front, right, and left of the rover. Irrespective of where the obstacles are put, it is observed that the rover stops due to the ACC, which uses both laser and ultrasonic sensor values. This is shown by the decreasing Target Acceleration and Velocity values, which are set to their minimum values -2 and 0, respectively. The obstacles are removed at 08:37:45, and the rover starts driving again. In order to make the DT unavailable for the purposes of this test, fault injection is applied into DT’s Heartbeat unit at 08:38:46, resulting in communication breakdown between the twins. It can be observed in Fig. 1b (left column) that the heartbeat is no longer incremented afterwards. After the fault injection, PT’s basic ACC, ACC Fallback, takes over, as ACC Monitor detects DT’s unavailability. It is observed that the rover stops in case of front obstacles, however not for obstacles placed to the left or right, as the basic ACC solely uses the laser sensor values. After the front obstacles are removed, the rover starts driving again (at 08:40:32). Therefore, we can conclude that the DT-approach eliminates the need for additional onboard hardware and therefore reduces acquisition and operational costs.
