Baier et al. [10] have conducted a survey on published approaches that utilise Halpern-Pearls’s notion of causality. More precisely, they look into formal approaches to probabilistic causation that can explain observable behaviour in reactive systems.

Within the context of cyber-physical systems, Deng et al. [23] have proposed a temporal logic for analysing causality called causal temporal logic. Once the prospective causes and effects are expressed in this temporal logic, they assess causality by generating traces that can satisfy/violate the causal formula and, thus, calculating the degree of sufficiency and necessity. There are key differences between our work and theirs. Firstly, we propose a conservative extension of Halpern-Pearls theory, in which we aim to keep the nuances of their theory (such as the notions of contingency and causal path, which are key factors to consider when determining actual causality) and not just the notions of sufficiency and necessity. Furthermore, their work assumes access to the correct behaviour and prospective causes. In our work, we do not need access to the correct behaviour; we search for causes by making use of meta-heuristics and looking for behaviours that can violate/satisfy the effect (formula).

Leitner-Fischer and Leue [47] define a theory of causality that considers the temporal order as well as the non-occurrence of events. They also provide a search-based on-the-fly causality assessment that does not require the counterexamples to be generated in advance. There, even though the order of events is important, no concrete notion of time is introduced. In our work, however, real time plays an important role and trajectories are represented in the continuous time domain.
