This equality constraint can be used for replacing the model-based constraint in Eq. (12). By comparing Eq. (56) with Eq. (9), it can be observed that the terms $\mathbf { \bar { P } } _ { 1 } \mathbf { U } _ { \mathrm { p } _ { 1 } } ^ { - } + \mathbf { P } _ { 2 } \mathbf { Y } _ { \mathrm { p } _ { 1 } }$ and $\mathbf { A } _ { \mathbf { Y } } \mathbf { x } _ { k \mid k }$ are equivalent. This equivalence is further supported by the definition of observability, which states that the initial state can be estimated from a sufficiently long sequence of input and output measurements. Using the predicted output sequence in Eq. (56), the optimization problem for SPC can be defined as:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}} \left[ \mathbf {Y} _ {r} - \left(\mathbf {P} _ {1} \mathbf {U} _ {\mathrm{p} _ {1}} + \mathbf {P} _ {2} \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{p} _ {1}} + \mathbf {B} _ {\mathbf {Y}} \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {Q} _ {\mathbf {Y}} \left[ \mathbf {Y} _ {r} - \left(\mathbf {P} _ {1} \mathbf {U} _ {\mathrm{p} _ {1}} + \mathbf {P} _ {2} \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{p} _ {1}} + \mathbf {B} _ {\mathbf {Y}} \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] + \mathbf {U} _ {k} ^ {\top} \mathbf {R} _ {\mathbf {U}} \mathbf {U} _ {k} \tag {57}$$

subject to $\mathbf { P } _ { 1 } \mathbf { U } _ { \mathrm { p } _ { 1 } } + \mathbf { P } _ { 2 } \mathbf { Y } _ { \mathrm { p } _ { 1 } } + \mathbf { B } \mathbf { \mathbf { \mathbf { \mathbf { \mathbf { \mathbf { Y } } } } } } \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { Y } ^ { \mathrm { N } } , ~ \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } ^ { \mathrm { N } } .$ .

Note that in SPC, the past data is used by the SysID algorithm for identifying a model as in Eq. (51), and the future data predicted by the model is used in MPC for optimizing the system behavior, i.e., SPC is a combination of subspacebased SysID and MPC. Eventhough we considered the past horizon same as future horizon M = N in the derivation, the same model as in Eq. (51) can be used for $\mathrm { M } \neq \mathrm { N } ,$ , where $\mathbf { A } _ { \mathbf { Y } }$ for $\mathbf { U } _ { \mathrm { p } }$ and $\mathbf { Y } _ { \mathrm { p } }$ in Eq. (47) is to be replaced with $\mathbf { A } _ { \mathbf { Y } _ { \mathrm { M } } }$ . The algorithm for SPC is summarized below.

Algorithm 2 : SPC   
1: Require the input-output data $Y_{D}$ and $U_{D}$ .
2: Select N, M, and H such that $N + M + H - 1 \leq D$ .
3: Compute $U_{p}$ , $Y_{p}$ $U_{f}$ and $Y_{f}$ as in Eq. (44).
4: Compute P (or $P_{1}, P_{2}, B_{Y}$ ) as in Eq. (54)
5: Select $N_{T} y_{r}$ , $Q_{y}$ , $R_{u}$ . Construct $Q_{Y}$ and $R_{U}$ as in Eq. (13)
6: Initialize $U_{k}$ 7: for k = 0 to $N_{T} - 1$ do
8: Compute $Y_{r}$ as in Eq. (13)
9: Compute $Y_{p_{1}}$ and $U_{p_{1}}$ as in Eq. (55)
10: Compute $U_{k}^{*}$ by solving the optimization problem in Eq. (57)
11: Apply $u_{k|k} = U_{k(1:m)}^{*}$ to the system
12: end for
