1. Quadratic programming (QP) is of the form:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {z}} \mathbf {z} ^ {\top} \mathbf {H} \mathbf {z} + \mathbf {z} ^ {\top} \mathbf {q}\text { subject to } \mathbf {F} \mathbf {z} \leq \mathbf {g} \tag {3}\mathbf {F} _ {e q} \mathbf {z} = \mathbf {g} _ {e q}.$$

2. Nonlinear programming (NLP) is of the form:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {z}} J (\mathbf {z})\text { subject to } \mathbf {f} _ {i n} (\mathbf {z}) \leq \mathbf {0} \tag {4}\mathbf {f} _ {e q} (\mathbf {z}) = \mathbf {0}$$

where $J ( \mathbf { z } )$ is a nonlinear function of the decision vector z, and ${ \bf f } _ { i n } ( { \bf z } ) , { \bf f } _ { e q } ( { \bf z } )$ are nonlinear functions used to represent the inequality and equality constraints, respectively.

A list of the most prominently used terminologies and symbols in this paper is given below:

1. Data: consists of measurements or samples of the variables of interest in the process or problem. In this paper, data refers to the input and output samples used to train the model.   
2. Model: is a mathematical equation that relates the variables of interest in the system. In this paper, we are interested in dynamic models that represent the temporal relationships between the variables of interest.   
3. State-space model: is one particular class of dynamic models. State space models are input-state-output models where states act as intermediate variables that capture the internal dynamics of the system.   
4. SysID: deals with the identification of dynamic models from data. This paper focuses on the identification of state-space models using input-output data, which are used to design output or state-based MPC schemes.   
5. Controller: deals with controlling the output (dependent variables) by properly adjusting the input (independent variables) to improve the system performance. The control approach we focus on in this paper is MPC.   
6. x - state vector and $\mathbf { X } _ { k }$ denotes state at time instant k.   
7. u - control (manipulated) input vector.   
8. y - output (controlled) vector.   
9. $L _ { y }$ - loss function in model training, which is a function of output prediction error.   
10. $J _ { y }$ and $J _ { x }$ - cost function for output and state-based MPC.

In the rest of the paper, we will be discussing major approaches in D-LMPC and D-NMPC, and their implementation with numerical examples. The Matlab codes for the numerical illustration can be accessed via the link 1. Before moving on to D-MPC, we review conventional LMPC and NMPC in the next section.
