ROSCo and Maestro Co-simulations: The two co-orchestration frameworks ROSCo and Maestro handle the joint execution of FMUs in a co-simulation context. The ROSCo co-simulation framework introduced in [12] builds upon ROS [18] and the FMI standard to construct a lightweight co-simulation architecture. ROSCo takes the given FMUs as input, wraps them into ROS nodes, co-simulates these by stepping them synchronously using ROS services, and manages the data flow among them, enabling the communication of FMUs during the co-simulation. The framework also enables the injection of various types of hardware and software faults which have been introduced in [13] and accurately simulates their propagation throughout the system. The Maestro co-orchestration engine was introduced in [20] and provides flexible, configurable co-simulation time progression, as well as fault-injection support [8, 7]. Here, FMUs are stepped in parallel, with input/output exchanges taking place after all FMUs have stepped.

Communication: The chosen communication infrastructure uses the AMQP protocol - an openstandard protocol designed for messaging between applications in a reliable and efficient manner. RabbitMQ5 is an open-source message broker software that implements the AMQP protocol and serves as an intermediary between producers (applications that send messages) and consumers (applications that receive messages). The PT and DT communicate through a RabbitMQ server by sending and receiving messages in JSON format. Therefore, both ROSCo and Maestro have interfaces for communicating with AMQP and dealing with the incoming data based on a user-defined configuration encoding the input-output connections between the PT and DT.

Maestro-AMQP Interface: On the DT side, a RabbitMQ data broker is encapsulated within an FMU and thereafter used as a bridge to external components. This component is named RMQFMU [19], and enables a user to configure its inputs and outputs in accordance with the data to be sent and received. Inputs define data sent out externally via the RabbitMQ server, while outputs determine data received and forwarded to the other FMUs. The supported data types for inputs and outputs are Real, Integer, Boolean, and String.
