# III. FIXED-TIME TRACKING WITH KNOW DYNAMICS

In this section, we present the primary findings of the letter. Inspired by the methodology detailed in [24], we introduce a nonsingular FxT sliding variable. Subsequently, we utilize a robust FxT reaching controller to effectively stabilize the sliding variable within an FxT framework. Firstly, let’s define the tracking error as follows:

$$z _ {i} (t) = x _ {i} (t) - x _ {i d} (t) \tag {5}$$

where $x _ { i } ( t )$ is the output of the system (4), and $x _ { i d }$ denotes its reference value. Inspired by [27], we introduce the following sliding variable:

$$s _ {i} (z _ {i}) = z _ {i} (t) + \alpha_ {i 1} \int_ {0} ^ {t} \exp (z _ {i} (\tau) ^ {2}) \left\lfloor z _ {i} (\tau) \right\rceil^ {\frac {p _ {i}}{q _ {i}}} d \tau , \tag {6}$$

with $\alpha _ { i 1 } ~ > ~ 0$ and $\textstyle { \frac { p _ { i } } { q _ { i } } } \in [ 0 \mathrm { ~ 1 ) }$ . We propose the following control law:

$$
\begin{array}{l} u _ {i} (z) = - g _ {i} (x) ^ {- 1} \left(f _ {i} (x) + \alpha_ {i 1} \exp \left(z _ {i} (t) ^ {2}\right) \lfloor z _ {i} (t) \rceil^ {\frac {p _ {i}}{q _ {i}}} \right. \\ \left. - \dot {x} _ {i d} (t) + \frac {\sqrt {\pi}}{2} \alpha_ {i 2} \exp \left(s _ {i} \left(z _ {i}\right) ^ {2}\right) \left\lfloor s _ {i} \left(z _ {i}\right) \right\rceil^ {0}\right) \tag {7} \\ \end{array}
$$

with $\alpha _ { i 2 } > \frac { 2 } { \sqrt { \pi } } \bar { d } _ { i } > 0$ . We present the following theorem.

Theorem 3: If $\alpha _ { i 2 } \ > \ \bar { d } _ { i }$ , the global closed-loop system (4)–(7) is FxT stable with a bounded settling time satisfying

$$T _ {\max} = T (s) + T (z), \tag {8}$$

where

$$T (z) \leq \max \left(T _ {1} (z _ {1}), T _ {2} (z _ {2}), \dots , T _ {n} (z _ {n})\right). \tag {9}$$

with

$$T _ {i} (z _ {i}) \leq \frac {2}{\alpha_ {i 1}}. \frac {1}{1 - \frac {p _ {i} ^ {2}}{q _ {i} ^ {2}}} \tag {10}$$

and

$$T (s) \leq \max \left(T _ {1} (s _ {1}), T _ {2} (s _ {2}), \dots , T _ {n} (s _ {n})\right), \tag {11}$$

with

$$T _ {i} (s _ {i}) \leq \frac {1}{\alpha_ {i 2} - \frac {2}{\sqrt {\pi}} \bar {d} _ {i}}. \tag {12}$$

Proof: Consider the sliding manifold

$$\mathcal {S} = \left\{z _ {i} (t) \in \mathbb {R}: s _ {i} \left(z _ {i}\right) = 0 \right\}.$$

The derivative of $s _ { i }$ is,
