# 5.2.4 Searching for a cause – part #1: lidar range

To check if the set of slices is a cause, the method IsCause asserts the causality clauses (as in Definition 18). The pseudo-code for this function can be seen in Algorithm 2. In this algorithm, we check the three clauses of Definition 18 (lines 3 to 5). Firstly, for AC1, the prospective cause (⃗x) is taken from c, which is built around causal model M in Algorithm 1 (and, thus, $( M , u ) \mathrel { \mathop { = } } ( c \longleftrightarrow { \vec { x } } ) )$ . Therefor, for AC1, we only need to check if the effect holds in the causal model $\left( \left( M , u \right) \models \Phi \right)$ . As for AC2, we check whether the slices found by the search suffice to violate Φ (lines 16 to 18). Finally, for AC3, we check whether any subset of the trajectory slices (line 22) satisfy AC1 and AC2 (lines 25 and 26). To do this, we perform a quicker version of the search (focusing on the subsets of ⃗x), looking for alternative slices for $\bar { \vec { X } }$ and $\vec { W }$ that satisfy both AC1 and AC2. We have previously noted that, in Definition 18, the set $\vec { w }$ is a subset of $\operatorname { T r a j s } ( \vec { W } ) \cap \mathscr { R }$ and hence, we do not need to check for all possible variations in $\mathrm { T r a j s } ( \vec { W } )$ , but only the ones that are also in the set R, which is built iteratively by the search. We discuss this algorithm in more details (including its soundness) in Appendix B.

Considering Definition 18, we have the previously defined signature $( S _ { C } )$ , the causal model M, the trajectory c and $u = c \downarrow _ { \mathcal { U } }$ . The search is initiated and, in its first phase, it considers variables individually. A potential cause is identified when, after a trajectory slice is overridden, Φ does not hold.

One of the causes presented is related to the range of the lidar. In the context of the theory, we have that $\vec { X } = \{ l i d a r R a n g e \}$ . Figure 12a depicts the original lidarRange trajectory, i.e., $\vec { x } = \{ x \ \downarrow { } _ { l i d a r R a n g e } \}$ . Since the duration of the system simulation $( \mathrm { i . e . }$ , the duration of trajectory c) is 10 seconds, the heuristic considers time slices of 5s, 2.5s, and 1s, as explained in Section 5.1. Going back to Definition 18, our algorithm assesses whether
