# 1. Introduction

Cyber-physical systems (CPSs) are systems that integrate computation with physical processes, in contexts where communication networks and human interaction may be present. Embedded computers and networked embedded components in CPSs monitor and control the physical processes, usually with feedback loops where physical processes affect computations and vice versa [46]. In CPSs, components often operate in both spatial and temporal dimensions, where there is an intense link between physical and computational elements.

The importance of reliability in safety-critical CPSs warrants further research into their verification. Particularly, there is a need to devise verification techniques based on mathematical relations, e.g., notions of conformance [59], that decide whether the system behaves as expected. Conformance notions are employed by conformance testing processes to evaluate whether a system behaves as required by its specification. Conformance testing and falsification approaches [63, 3, 64, 65, 59, 7, 24, 68, 50] have the benefit of offering mathematical assurances about the correctness of the system.

Although they are undoubtedly useful, verification techniques can be of limited use, particularly in the context of complex systems, without a systematic way to trace the failures back to their original causes. Testing a system without a method for locating the source of the discovered faults can lead to an incredible amount of resources spent on manual system inspections.

In this context, causal analysis is an essential ingredient of such rigorous verification techniques, providing effective means to isolate and eventually remove the faults causing hazards and failures observed in the verification process. There have been many attempts to define and analyse causality. In a philosophical context, causality is defined the relationship between events where the the cause contributes to the realisation of a different event (the effect), where the cause is (partially) responsible for the effect, which is (partially) dependent on its cause [66]. In a more practical context, Halpern and Pearl have made use of structural equation models to provide a mathematical definition of actual causality [39, 40]. Chockler builds upon this work by integrating the notion of actual cause into a rigorous verification process [22].

However, most definitions of actual causality only cater for discrete systems and do not cover the complexity of dynamic physical phenomena. Due to the continuous and quantitative nature of the physical parts of CPSs, the notion of causality is bound to have a quantitative nature and accommodate physical dynamics.
