# 1 Introduction

Cyber-physical systems (CPSs) pose ongoing challenges for engineers and testers due to their increased complexity, scale, and autonomy [11, 6], necessitating an adaption of development and deployment processes. On the other hand, Digital Twins (DTs), as virtual replicas of CPSs [10], also referred to as Physical Twins (PTs), emerge as a powerful tool to monitor and provide a wide variety of services to their PTs, such as fault diagnosis, reconfiguration etc. [4], across diverse domains such as agriculture, healthcare, industrial automation, and logistics. In line with agile development processes, DTs have the potential to be instrumental in developing CPS stepwise, from fully digital models to symbiotic Hardware-in-the-Loop simulations to the fully implemented robotic system consisting of both PT and DT. This would allow for iterative validation and testing, as well as run-time augmentatation of the CPSs functionalities through DT services. Due to limited hardware resources or legacy systems, it is not always possible to implenent enhanced functionalities directly on the board hardware [6]. By offloading new functionalities to a DT—whether on-premise or cloud-based—organizations can reduce acquisition and operational costs without compromising system capabilities, crucial for avoiding financial costs, especially in industrial settings. As CPSs require fault tolerance mechanisms which are complex in both their development and operation, providing non-safety-critical redundancy as a DT service could be beneficial for ensuring durability and availability.

The contribution of this work is an empirical evaluation of how a DT can enhance system capabilities and fault tolerance in an industry-oriented robotic platform. Specifically, the case study shows that DTs can (1) augment physical systems by extending their functionalities, and (2) increase fault tolerance by taking over tasks from malfunctioning components, thereby reducing system downtime.
