# 6.3 Case study #2: exploring the design of a connected platoon

Vehicular platooning is a cooperative and autonomous driving technology for linking two or more vehicles in a convoy. The goal of the convoy is to keep a close but safe distance between the vehicles using V2V (vehicle-to-vehicle) communications and automated driving technologies [15].

We have built a model of such a system [9] whose goal is that all vehicles in the platoon should keep a safe distance but within each other’s communications range. In this model, the leading vehicle is driven by a human driver, while the velocity of the following vehicles is autonomously controlled; the autonomous followers should keep up with the leading vehicle’s velocity.

The communication rules follow the standard defined in the ETSI EN 302 637-2 (Cooperative Awareness Basic Service - CAS) documentation [28], which, among others, describes the rules for the frequency of packet transmission. These packets comprise Cooperative Awareness Messages (CAM), which contain information about the vehicle, such as acceleration, direction and position. Rules for sending a packet are parameterised and take into consideration three factors: (i) whether a vehicles has moved a long enough distance, (ii) a certain amount of time has passed, and (iii) its speed has changed above a certain threshold. If any of the three cases holds, then the vehicle must send a packet to communicate with the others. Moreover, we use a simple controller called the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) [62] in order to accelerate and decelerate the followers.

An overview of our model can be seen in Figure 19. In the communication architecture that we use, each vehicle receives information from the leader and from the vehicle in front of it. This allows for each follower to learn about the leader’s manoeuvres soon after they happen and anticipate them before they are fully propagated through the platoon. Other design decisions regarding the communication architecture may lead to different analysis results; for instance, using direct communication with the remaining followers might increase safety but also channel congestion.
