| t (s) | Leader | Follower 1 | Follower 2 | Follower 3 | Follower 4 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 5 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 10 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 15 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 20 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 25 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 30 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 35 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 40 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
</details>

Figure 20: Example of a scenario generated by HyConf [9].

Table 7: Observed failures.

<table><tr><td>Variation</td><td>Effect</td><td> $\Phi$ </td></tr><tr><td>Increased frequency</td><td>Follower 4 goes out of range (60 m)</td><td> $c \downarrow_{\{f4.position\}} +60 <_{\text{dom}(c)} c \downarrow_{\{f3.position\}}$ </td></tr><tr><td>Decreased frequency</td><td>Follower 2 collides with follower 1</td><td> $c \downarrow_{\{f2.position\}} \geq_{\text{dom}(c)} c \downarrow_{\{f1.position\}}$ </td></tr></table>

In this case, we would like to assess whether the vehicles kinematic rules can be interpreted as cause of the faulty behaviour instead of the network parameters. For simplicity, we classify the endogenous variables of the system as the leader and the followers, and the remaining variables are classified as exogenous. The leading vehicle has its own acceleration, speed and position (the variables are named leader.acceleration, leader.speed and leader.position, respectively). Furthermore, the exogenous variable $u _ { 1 }$ captures the leader acceleration (which is a abstraction of the car pedal position, wind speed, friction, tire conditions) and serves as input to the system. This variable is then linked to leader.acceleration. The remaining exogenous variables are related to communication rates.

$\bullet \ \mathcal { V } = \{ l e a d e r , \ : f 1 , \ : f 2 , \ : f 3 , \ : f 4 \}$   
$\bullet \mathcal { U } = \{ T _ { m i n } , T _ { m a x } , v _ { m i n } , d _ { m i n } , u 1 \}$

Furthermore, the structural equations are defined as follows. For simplicity, we choose to omit the equations for the second, third and fourth follower, but they follow the same pattern as the equations for the first follower.
