# 2.2.2 State-based NMPC

State-based NMPC uses the predicted state and control input sequence to construct the cost function, where the states are predicted using a nonlinear model. The cost function for the state-based NMPC is defined as in Eq. (22), using which the state-based NMPC problem can be defined as:

Problem 4 (State-based NMPC). For the nonlinear system (26) with the current state ${ \bf x } _ { k \mid k }$ given, compute the control input sequence ${ \bf U } _ { k }$ by solving:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}, \mathbf {X} _ {k + 1}} J _ {y}$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o } ~ \mathbf { X } _ { k + 1 } \in \mathbb { X } ^ { \mathrm { N } } , ~ \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } ^ { \mathrm { N } }$ (31)

$$\mathbf {x} _ {i + 1 | k} = \mathbf {f} (\mathbf {x} _ {i | k}, \mathbf {u} _ {i | k}), \quad i = k, \dots , k + N - 1.$$

The predicted state and control sequences in Eq. (27) can be used to represent the optimization problem for state-based NMPC as:

$$\inf _ {\mathbf {U} _ {k}} \left[ \mathbf {X} _ {r} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{xp}} \left(\mathbf {x} _ {k \mid k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {Q} _ {\mathbf {X}} \left[ \mathbf {X} _ {r} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{xp}} \left(\mathbf {x} _ {k \mid k}, \mathbf {U} _ {k}\right) \right] + \left[ \mathbf {U} _ {r} - \mathbf {U} _ {k} \right] ^ {\top} \mathbf {R} _ {\mathbf {U}} \left[ \mathbf {U} _ {r} - \mathbf {U} _ {k} \right] \tag {32}$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } \mathbf { f } _ { \mathrm { x p } } ( \mathbf { x } _ { k \left| k \right. } , \mathbf { U } _ { k } ) \in \mathbb { X } ^ { \mathrm { N } } , ~ \mathbf { U } _ { k } \in \mathbb { U } ^ { \mathrm { N } } .$

The state-based NMPC scheme is obtained by solving this NLP at every time instant and applying the first element of $\mathbf { U } _ { k } ^ { * }$ as the control input. Numerical examples that illustrate the conventional LMPC and NMPC can be found in [9]. It is important to note that the control reference Ur is generally unknown in practical applications. It can, however, be computed from the output or state reference using steady-state conditions, or alternatively, it may be selected as the optimal control sequence obtained at the previous time step.
