# 5.1 Causal analysis process

We explain the step-by-step process for causal analysis. The process incorporates the theory defined in Section 4 and has been mechanised and integrated into HyConf1, a tool for test case generation and conformance testing of cyber-physical systems. HyConf employs multiobjective search-based heuristics to find challenging input trajectories that exercise extreme conditions of the system under test (SUT). Particularly, it checks for conformance violations based on the (τ, ϵ)-conformance notion [2]. In short, given two output trajectories (e.g., the system implementation and an idealised specification model), the tools compares the distance between the two trajectories in terms of time (τ ) and space (ϵ). These parameters can be seen as margins of error, and if the two trajectories are beyond such values, the a non-conforming verdict is given (i.e., a failure was observed). The inputs and failures observed in future sections were obtained via HyConf. These are, in turn, fed as input to our causal analysis.

We consider the running example (see Section 3.2.1) and use it to illustrate our approach. Figure 10 depicts an overview of the process. The dotted lines represent manual steps or manually provided (input) artefacts whilst solid ones represent automatic steps or automatically provided artefacts, as explained in the bottom right of the figure. Our causal analysis process requires 3 inputs from the user: the system (implementation) or design (model) under verification (currently, we accept Matlab/Simulink models), the hazard or fault (Φ, written in a simplified format of Signal Temporal Logic formulae [48]) and the scenario (a trajectory c, in Matlab/Simulink output format) in which the hazard/fault occurs. What we call a scenario in this work is a finite execution of a system in the form of a trajectory that comprises all variables within the system. From this scenario, we derive the valuation of both the endogenous and the exogenous sets (including the context setting u) of variables.

The step-by-step is given below.

1. A model of a cyber-physical system, a scenario and the hazard must be given.   
2. The user chooses the set of endogenous variables and the remaining variables are assumed exogenous automatically.   
3. The causal model is built with a singleton R that (initially) only contains the trajectory c that led to the hazard.
