After searching and determining causes, the algorithm attempts to increase granularity regardless of whether causes have been found or not. If a cause was found, we attempt to increase its precision (with respect to time) by searching the specific area where a cause has been found and, hence, trimming the time intervals into smaller pieces. Hence, if a cause is found with a granularity lower than the minimum, we focus the search on its specific time interval to increase precision (lines 27 to 40).

Otherwise, if no cause is found for coarser time intervals, we gradually increase granularity (from 2 to 4 and finally 10, that is, each slice should represent 50%, 25% and 10% of the trajectory (c) duration, respectively – this is performed by the function increaseGranularity) and resume the search (lines 13 to 16). The reason for increasing granularity even though no cause is found is due to the following two reasons:

• First, overriding only slices of a trajectory effectively turns it into a piecewise function. Since the degree of our polynomial function to smooth the curve is constant (regardless of how many data points there exist), the finer the time intervals the less data points fall within each time interval, and, thus, the easier it is for the smooth curve to exactly match the points resulting from the search.

• Second, because our search is non-exhaustive in nature, the search can find and assess causality for more slices, if the time intervals are finer. This results in more causality assessments in overall and increases the likelihood to find causes.

There are two stopping criteria for the search. If the search does not find a cause even after splitting the trajectory into the maximum number of intervals (set to 10), then it stops. Otherwise, if it finds at least one cause, it focuses the search on those areas related to the causes in an attempt to increase precision (more subtle changes within shorter time intervals). After focusing (using the maximum number of time intervals), the search is stopped.
