# 3 Data-driven Linear MPC

Data-driven Linear MPC (D-LMPC) uses input-output data to either identify a linear model as in Eq. (38) or an equivalent set of constraints that represent the system’s predictive behavior, i.e., predicted output or state as a function of control input. The available information consists of the input and output data:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathbf {U} _ {\mathrm{D}} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathbf {u} _ {0} & \mathbf {u} _ {1} & \dots & \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{D} - 1} \end{array} \right] \\ \mathbf {v} _ {\mathrm{D}} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathbf {u} _ {0} & \mathbf {u} _ {1} & \dots & \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{D} - 1} \end{array} \right] \end{array} \tag {33}

\mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathbf {y} _ {1} & \mathbf {y} _ {2} & \dots & \mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{D}} \end{array} \right]
$$

where D is the number of samples in the dataset. In order to distinguish the predicted output and control input sequence used in MPC, the training input and output sequences are denoted by $\bar { \mathbf { U } } _ { \mathrm { D } }$ and $\mathbf { Y } _ { \mathrm { D } }$ which are already available or historical data. In data-driven LMPC, the system parameters A, B, C are considered to be unknown. Instead, inputoutput data: $\mathbf { U } _ { \mathrm { D } } , \mathbf { Y } _ { \mathrm { D } }$ is available, which can be used for identifying the system parameters and designing MPC control schemes. This leads to the following two directions of D-LMPC:

1. Model-based D-LMPC: in which the training data is used for identifying a linear model, which is then used for solving the MPC problem. Examples: realization method and prediction error method based LMPC.   
2. Model-free D-LMPC: which directly solves the LMPC problem (without identifying a model first) in which the model-based constraints are replaced by data-based constraints. Example: data-enabled predictive control.
