• In our implementation, the set R is built iteratively. We start with a singleton R that only contains the trajectory that led to the fault (c); as the search evaluates new trajectories, by overriding c with trajectory slices in order to find a cause, they are added to R. Once the search is concluded, multiple causes may have been found and, thus, we assess them considering the final R that has been built; this is the moment where we apply our theory for causality assessment of CPSs (see Section 4).   
• When users choose the endogenous variables, they must set a maximum and minimum value and, if appropriate, mark the variable as constant. This is to avoid finding causes that do not respect system requirements and dynamics.

We re-iterate that the equations and variables of the causal model are provided as inputs from the user and the set R (state space) is built during the search. Moreover, causes are determined with respect to a particular causal model. Setting the maximum and minimum values for variables binds the set R of the causal model, and therefore the results are sound with respect to that particular model. Due to manual inputs (such as the boundaries for system variables), it is possible for the causal model to not reflect the actual system (from which c is taken) and, in this case, the cause might not reflect the reality of it. However, as far as cause/causal model are concerned, the results are still sound. In this work, we assume that the causal model that is built (given the manual inputs) respects the reality of the system, that is, one has to make sure that the boundaries in the causal model respect the boundaries in the physical system.

Furthermore, unlike variables, constants cannot be overridden in time intervals, only in their whole duration. This can be seen as a restriction on the set R, such that constants can only be defined by constant trajectories. The set of functions F that describe how the endogenous variables are affected by other system variables must be provided by the user. Given this information, the tool checks whether the causal model is acyclic, otherwise the causality assessment becomes infeasible, as explained at the end of Section 4.3.
