Experiment 1: Augmenting PT capabilities The first experiment demonstrates the ability of a DT to reduce the costs of acquisition and operation while augmenting CPS capabilities by proposing an advanced Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) feature. Moreover, it provides an example of the DT’s capabilities at run-time. For the purpose of this experiment, we employ two versions for the ACC feature and make the following distinction between a basic and an advanced ACC: The basic ACC, represented by ACC Fallback, uses solely laser sensor values to regulate the rover speed by assessing the distance to the front obstacles, whereas the advanced ACC, corresponding to DT’s ACC Augmented, fuses the laser and ultrasonic sensor data for considering obstacles also on its left and right sides. To assess the feasibility of the augmentation, we apply fault injection on the DT-side simulating loss of communication due to, e.g. network failures, and analyze the corresponding PT response, specifically we inject a fault into DT’s Heartbeat component. We place obstacles in the front, left, and right sides of the rover before and after the DT becomes unavailable to observe the behavior of the advanced and basic ACC features.

Experiment 2: Increasing fault tolerance The second experiment illustrates the DT’s ability to enhance fault tolerance and reduce the downtime of the CPS by taking over functionality that the PT can no longer offer reliably. In contrast to the previous experiment, the ACC provided by the DT is a replica of the basic ACC executed primarily on the PT. The goal is to ensure that in the event of ACC instability or failure on the PT, the DT’s ACC seamlessly takes charge, guaranteeing continuous system operation despite faults, thereby increasing the fault tolerance through redundancy.

To demonstrate the increased fault tolerance, we inject a fault into the PT’s ACC unit. We place obstacles in front of the rover, both before and after the ACC on the PT-side stops operating to observe the fail-operational behavior provided by the DT. The experiment also shows the utility of the approach for conducting tests as close to the actual operation as possible, given that the DT-PT setup is the same.
