Note that such calculated $\pi ^ { m }$ depends only on the current state s. Hence, it is an non-anticipative policy. In most practical applications, computing the policy for all possible states in the state space is computationally expensive, and analytical expressions for the expectations are often unavailable. To address this, we calculate $\pi ^ { m }$ for a representative subset of states and generalize it to the entire state space using least-squares fitting. In this process, a sample average based on a small-scale simulation of $\xi$ can be used as an approximation for the expectation, facilitating computation; see Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis [1997] for further details. When the training data is sufficient, we expect that the generating function $\{ \rho _ { t } ( \cdot , \phi _ { t } ^ { m } ) , t \in \mathbb { T } \}$ learned from ADRL is close to the optimal one; that is, $\rho _ { t } ( \cdot , \phi _ { t } ^ { m } ) \stackrel { - } { \approx } V _ { t } ^ { * } ( \cdot )$ . By the strong duality relation (7), we know that the greedy policy $\pi ^ { m }$ defined in (14) is also close to the optimal one.

Balseiro and Brown [2019] develop a general framework in which they derive both a policy and a performance bound from the same approximation value function. On the one hand, they treat this approximation as the continuation value and apply the greedy method to select actions with respect to it. On the other hand, they generate a dual feasible penalty, thereby the dual bounds, using the same approximate value. “Good" approximations are thus crucial for this framework to yield tight dual gaps. The ADRL algorithm presents a systematic way to construct such “good" value approximations from the dual side of the problem. The penalty $\overline { { z ^ { m } } }$ constructed from the generating function $\mathsf { \bar { \{ } } \rho _ { t } ( \cdot , \phi _ { t } ^ { m } ) , t \in \bar { \mathbb { T } } \}$ should be close to the optimal penalty. Meanwhile, the greedy policy $\pi ^ { m }$ should also be nearly optimal, leading to a tight dual gap.
