| Iterations | ADRL Dual value k=100 | Primal value k=100 | Optimal value without constraints |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | 550 | 650 | 575 |
| 2000 | 600 | 625 | 575 |
| 4000 | 605 | 625 | 575 |
| 6000 | 610 | 625 | 575 |
| 8000 | 610 | 625 | 575 |
| 10000 | 610 | 625 | 575 |
</details>

(b) ADRL bounds for k = 100   
Figure 2: ADRL bounds (k = 50,100) showing learning curve and policy-based upper bound with 95% confidence intervals. The dotted line indicates the unconstrained theoretical optimal value.

Finally, we apply a popular reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm from the literature—the deep empirical risk minimization (DERM) algorithm Han and E [2016]—to the problem with the no-shorting constraint to demonstrate the advantages of working with ADRL. As summarized in A.2, DERM uses in-sample trajectories of the noise process to train policy networks. For this purpose, we simulate 256 samples of $\{ ( \varepsilon _ { t } , \eta _ { t } ) : 0 \stackrel { - } { \leq } t \leq \dot { T } \}$ and construct policy networks with two hidden layers, each containing 256 neurons. In each iteration, the samples are used to compute the gradient of the empirical loss on the right-hand side of (26) with respect to the hyperparameter θ for updating the policy networks.

The blue line in Figure 3 shows the training loss, which continues to decrease throughout training. However, the evaluation loss (red line) initially improves but eventually worsens, indicating over training, see Reppen and Soner [2023]. During the initial stages of training, the loss decreases sharply, indicating that the algorithm quickly learns effective policies from the provided data. However, after 2,000 iterations, the algorithm begins to overfit, as evidenced by the training loss dropping below the lower bound provided by ADRL. In other words, the in-sample performance of the trained network surpasses that of the optimal non-anticipative policies. Note that the minimizer θ ∗ for (26) depends on the entire trajectory st . As a result, DERM transitions from learning better non-anticipative policies to effectively predicting future states in the training data. Naturally, such an overfitted policy cannot generalize well to out-of-sample scenarios. As shown by the red dots in the figure, the out-of-sample value of the policies from the latter stage of learning performs worse (higher than the upper bound provided by ADRL).
