A generic axisymmetric nose-spike center body inlet with a variable geometry cowl is selected for the design. The nose-spike and cowl design loosely resembles the NASA 1507 inlet [28]. The variable geometry mechanism adjusts both the location of the cowl tip in the xdirection and the angle of the cowl. This corresponds to a translation in the cowl tip along the conical shock angle of the center body at the cruise Mach condition. The translation is represented in terms of the cowl radius, $r _ { 0 } ,$ , which is equivalent to the freestream capture area radius. This approach is similar to other cowl-based variable geometry methods in which the cowl angle and cowl location are investigated as separate operations [29]–[34]. In [8], a series of parametric 2D axisymmetric Reynolds-Averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) simulations were performed on a structured two-dimensional grid with an increasing freestream capture area. Isolator exit mass flow rate, mass-averaged stagnation pressure, and mass-averaged Mach number were calculated and curvefitted as a function of $r _ { 0 }$ . This model is extended to work across a range of altitudes by normalizing the isolator exit quantities based on freestream conditions.

The isolator exit conditions are then fed forward to a quasi-one-dimensional combustor model. The regression rate of the solid fuel, r˙, is assumed to depend on the inlet mass flux, G, total temperature, $T _ { t 2 }$ , and combustor pressure, $P _ { 4 } .$ , and is given by

$$\dot {r} = \alpha G _ {a} ^ {a} P _ {4} ^ {b} T _ {t 2} ^ {c}, \tag {1}$$

where α, a, b, and c are empirical curve fits from Vaught et al. [35]. This work considers a hypothetical model hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) polymer that is completely converted to the gaseous hydrocarbon, 1,3-butadiene $( C _ { 4 } H _ { 6 } )$ . The model assumes that the fuel grain only burns radially, with uniform regression along the axial length of the combustor. To calculate the combustor aft-end mixing pressure for (1), a simple friction correlation is used to model internal friction, which implies that

$$\Delta P _ {t, 2 - 4} = \frac {f _ {D}}{4} \frac {L _ {f}}{d} \frac {\rho_ {3} u _ {3} ^ {2}}{2}, \tag {2}$$

where $\Delta P _ { t , 2 - 4 }$ is the pressure change between station $" 2 "$ and station $\mathbf { \tilde { \Sigma } } ^ { 6 6 } 4 \ ' , f _ { D }$ is the Darcy friction factor, $L _ { f }$ is the length of the fuel grain, $\rho$ is the port fluid density, and $u _ { 3 }$ is the port velocity.
