In general, this problem has no closed form solution; see the discussion in Bertsimas and Lo [1998] about why this problem becomes intractable due the the non-negative constraints on $\left\{ a _ { t } \right\}$ . In our implementation, we set $n = 1 0$ and $m = 3 .$ , and $T = 2 0$ , resulting in a high-dimensional space of control policies: $\mathbb { R } ^ { 2 3 } \to { \mathbb { R } } ^ { 1 0 }$ . These challenging settings highlight the effectiveness of our ADRL algorithm in generating high-quality policies with performance guarantees. For the neural network architecture, we use two hidden layers, each with ReLU as the activation function. We change the number of neurons $( k = 1 0 , 5 0 , 1 0 0 )$ in the experiments to test the approximation accuracy of neural networks of different complexity. During training procedure, we apply feature transformation to the state ${ \bf s _ { t } } = ( { \bf P _ { t - 1 } } , { \bf X _ { t } } , { \bf R _ { t } } )$ , as this approach has been shown to accelerate convergence and enhance generalization. Specifically, we construct quadratic features as follows: $\left( \mathbf { P _ { t - 1 } } , \mathbf { X _ { t } } , \mathbf { R _ { t } } , \mathbf { X _ { t } } \mathbf { X _ { t } ^ { t r } } , \mathbf { R _ { t } } \mathbf { \check { R } _ { t } ^ { t r } } , \mathbf { P _ { t - 1 } } \mathbf { R _ { t } ^ { t r } } , \mathbf { X _ { t } } \mathbf { R _ { t } ^ { t r } } \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 6 3 }$ .

These transformed features are then fed into the neural network for training. To compute the expectation in penalty construction (5), we employ a Monte Carlo simulation with a sample size of 2,000. In the Action Stage of the algorithm, we use the Sequential Least Squares Quadratic Programming (SLSQP) method to solve the optimization problem (12). In the Adversarial Stage, we apply the Adam optimizer to dynamically adjust the learning rates, γb, utilizing historical gradient information.
