# I. INTRODUCTION

Solid fuel ramjet (SFRJ) platforms promise greater propulsive performance and capability over traditional rocket engines by ingesting freestream air for combustion with high-density solid fuels and without any complex turbomachinery [1]. Combustion involves complex interaction between turbulent flame-dynamics, solid fuel pyrolysis, and complex hydrocarbon chemistry. A review of the progress and challenges in understanding the SFRJ combustion phenomena is compiled in several review articles [2]–[4]. Due to the multi-physics nature of the dynamics, precise control over the combustor equivalence ratio and other performance metrics is extremely challenging limiting deployment at scale.

For SFRJ platforms, direct command over system performance requires modifying the inflow conditions to the combustor subsystem. The majority of studies have considered the use of bypass air channels to modulate system thrust [5], [6]. Experimentally, bypass ratio control has shown increased combustor efficiency [7], but requires the addition of bypass piping which increases the complexity of the SFRJ geometry whilst decreasing the theoretical capacity for solid fuel loading. Recent

Ryan DeBoskey and Venkat Narayanaswamy are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695 rddebosk@ncsu.edu, vnaraya3@ncsu.edu

Parham Oveissi and Ankit Goel are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Maryland, Baltimore County,1000 Hilltop Circle, Baltimore, MD 21250. parhamo1@umbc.edu, ankgoel@umbc.edu

work has investigated the potential of using variable inlet design as an alternative means for regulating SFRJ performance [8]. Variable inlet control presents potential advantages by minimizing the actuator hardware footprint and providing a novel mechanism to regulate air ingested for combustion and, thus, thrust. However, due to the complex dynamic relationship between the inlet geometry and thrust generated, which is sensitive to geometric variations of the SFRJ, as well as variations in flow conditions and dependence on flight conditions, designing a control system to regulate the SFRJ thrust remains a challenging problem. The focus of this work is thus the investigation of an adaptive control technique to regulate the thrust generated by an SFRJ.
