# 3.1 Adversarial Deep Reinforcement Learning (ADRL)

The min-max formulation of (7) provides a game-theoretic perspective on strong duality. Consider an adversary whose goal is to minimize the agent’s expected (penalized) reward by selecting an appropriate W (thereby penalty $z ^ { W } )$ Meanwhile, the agent seeks to maximize its rewards by employing anticipative policies. From this perspective, the interaction between the agent and the adversary can be framed as a zero-sum game. Based on this observation, we develop an adversarial RL algorithm in this section to learn the solution to (3).

Note that the generating function W of optimal penalties for (7) is typically a highly complex function of state s, especially in many high-dimensional stochastic control problems. To address this challenge, we leverage the remarkable expressivity of deep neural networks (DNNs) to approximate the adversary’s optimal choice for W in this work. In particular, let $\phi _ { t } \in \Phi _ { t } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { s }$ represent the hyperparameters of the network at time t, and we parameterize the DNNs as $\mathsf { \bar { \{ } } \rho _ { t } ( \cdot , \phi _ { t } ) : t \in \dot { \mathbb { T } } \}$ . One may refer to Appendix A.1 for a brief description on the structure of DNN considered in this paper. Invoking (7), we train optimal $\phi _ { t }$ by solving the following minimization problem

$$\boldsymbol {\phi} ^ {*} = \arg \min _ {\boldsymbol {\phi} = \{\boldsymbol {\phi} _ {t}: t \in \mathbb {T} \}} \mathbb {E} \left[ \max _ {\boldsymbol {a} = \{\boldsymbol {a} _ {t} \} _ {t = 0} ^ {T} \in \mathbb {A} ^ {T}} \left(\sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} r _ {t} (\boldsymbol {s} _ {t}, \boldsymbol {a} _ {t}) + R (\boldsymbol {s} _ {T}) - z ^ {\phi} (\boldsymbol {a}, \xi)\right) | \boldsymbol {s} _ {0} = \boldsymbol {s} \right], \tag {10}$$

where $z ^ { \phi }$ is a penalty based on the generating function $\{ \rho _ { t } ( \cdot , \phi _ { t } ) : t \in \mathbb { T } \}$

Structurally, the problem (10) is essentially a stochastic optimization problem. For any hyperparameter $\phi$ in the construction of penalty function, action sequence a, and noise sequence $\dot { \xi } .$ , denote

$$Y (\phi , \boldsymbol {a}, \xi) := \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} r _ {t} (\boldsymbol {s} _ {t}, \boldsymbol {a} _ {t}) + R (\boldsymbol {s} _ {T}) - z ^ {\phi} (\boldsymbol {a} (\xi), \xi). \tag {11}$$
