Synthetic thrust measurements were generated using the computational model described in the previous section at 50 discrete points for each independent variable, resulting in a total of 125,000 measurements. In-situ measurement of combustor pressure $P _ { t 4 }$ and composition of carbon monoxide $X _ { C O }$ were collected for each simulation. The data set was split into a training and testing set, with 80% and 20% of the data, respectively. The ADAM method for stochastic optimization [44] is utilized to minimize the mean-squared error, M SE, loss function

$$M S E = \frac {1}{n} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} (y _ {i} - \hat {y} _ {i}) ^ {2}, \tag {9}$$

where $y _ { i }$ and $\hat { y } _ { i }$ are the true values and the ANN predicted output values, respectively. The sigmoid activation function, $\sigma ( \zeta )$ , is applied on all layers to return a normalized value of [0,1], represented mathematically as

$$\sigma (\zeta) = \frac {1}{1 + e ^ {- \zeta}}, \tag {10}$$

where ζ is a scalar value.

A sensitivity study was performed to determine the training batch size, activation function for the hidden layers, and number of hidden layers to be used by the final model. Table III summarizes the range of hyperparameters tested in this sensitivity study. Minimization of the mean-squared training and testing loss is used as the parameter to evaluate the ANN performance. Figure 3 shows the resulting training loss $J _ { \mathrm { l o s s } }$ for the ANN hyperparameter sensitivity analysis. The testing loss is not shown for brevity. The results show the most significant model improvement with increased hidden layer nodes and relative insensitivity to activation function or batch size. The final ANN model contains 20 hidden layer nodes, uses the sigmoid activation function, and trains on a batch size of 100. The ANN was trained for 100 epochs, which was found to be a good compromise between training and testing loss to ensure the model is not over- or under-fit. Training of the ANN model required approximately 2 minutes on a single Intel® Core™ i7-8550U CPU.
