Previous controllers designed for thrust modulation of SFRJ engines have primarily assumed the generated thrust is available as an input to the control system [9]– [13]. However, in-flight measurement of generated thrust is extremely challenging, particularly for supersonic and hypersonic vehicle platforms [14]. Many previous works have been conducted to characterize SFRJ performance, resulting in the development of empirical relations relating inflow conditions to system performance [1], [15], [16]. Although useful in elucidating principal determinants, continued improvement in the understanding of the native complex multiphysics process, through experiments and numerical simulations [17], is still necessary to develop highly accurate phenomenological models. Alternatively, thrust models for the SFRJ system can be constructed using data-driven and machine learning approaches. An inherent advantage of machine learning is that a thrust model can be developed from any available input set. This enables the creation of a model based entirely on in-situ measurements obtained from a real-world supersonic platform.

This work utilizes artificial neural networks (ANNs) to predict the thrust of a model SFRJ platform using in situ measurements. Previous studies have utilized neural networks to model and improve the performance of SFRJ and related propulsive platforms in a variety of ways. Thrust prediction in hybrid-rocket [18] and solid-rocket [19] engines has been successfully demonstrated using neural networks trained on both synthetic and experimental data, respectively. Many studies have considered neural networks in surrogate-based analysis and optimization [20], where neural networks are used to model and improve the design of propulsion systems [21], [22]. Analogously, neural networks have also been used to determine model sensitivities for solid fuel combustion to optimize experimental design [23]. Fundamentally, ANNs are known to be universal function approximators [24], making them well-suited to quickly and accurately estimate thrust from limited measurements as considered in this work.
