# B. Deterministic surrogate to the cost

For linear systems, the state covariance propagated by the Kalman filter is independent of the control input; hence, the cost is replaced by its deterministic equivalent in the state mean. This is known as the separation principle [12], which states that optimal control can be separated into deterministic optimal control and optimal filtering. However, this does not hold for general nonlinear systems; notice that the covariance estimates provided by the eKF are dependent on the control input. Therefore, the control input has a role in the estimation quality represented by these covariances. The difficulty remains in the expectation of the cost (10) resulting from the conditioning on all future measurements. We omit this expectation for computational purposes and verify in the numerical example that the resulting deterministic surrogate is still beneficial to both control and estimation.

The measurement correction term $\left[ y _ { k } - h ( x _ { k | k - 1 } ) \right]$ , which resembles the innovation sequence in the filtering context, can be assumed white and independent from $\Omega _ { k }$ , if the eKF is a sufficiently accurate filter (this is true in various applications (see [22, Sec. 8.2]). We define the predictiononly recursion

$$x _ {k + 1} ^ {p} = f (x _ {k} ^ {p}, I _ {k}), \tag {14}$$

where the state $x _ { k } ^ { p }$ is the surrogate of both $x _ { k | k - 1 }$ and $x _ { k \left| k \right. }$ (since the measurement correction is omitted) that evolves solely through prediction. Although $\ v { x } _ { k } ^ { p }$ does not exactly represent the mean of $x _ { k }$ , beyond one step ahead, due to the nonlinearity of $f ;$ we adopt $x _ { k } ^ { p }$ as the approximate mean for the deterministic surrogate of the cost.

We define the prediction only eKF as follows.

$$x _ {k + 1} ^ {p} = x _ {k} ^ {p} + \operatorname{diag} (\left\{\frac {\eta^ {i} \Delta t}{Q _ {n o m} ^ {i}}: i = 1, 2, \dots , n \right\}) I _ {k},\Sigma_ {k + 1 | k} ^ {p} = \Sigma_ {k | k} ^ {p} + \Sigma_ {w},\Sigma_ {k \mid k} ^ {p} = \left[ I - \Omega_ {k} H _ {k} ^ {p} \right] \Sigma_ {k \mid k - 1} ^ {p}, \tag {15}\Omega_ {k} = \Sigma_ {k | k - 1} ^ {p} H _ {k} ^ {\textsf {T}} \left[ H _ {k} ^ {p} \Sigma_ {k | k - 1} ^ {p} H _ {k} ^ {\textsf {T}} + \Sigma_ {v} \right] ^ {- 1},H _ {k} ^ {p} = \operatorname{diag} (\left\{\frac {\partial h ^ {i} (x)}{\partial x} | _ {x _ {k} ^ {i, p}}: i = 1, \dots , n \right\}),$$

with $F _ { k } ^ { p }$ substituted as the identity matrix.

We define the deterministic surrogate to (10) in terms of the prediction-only eKF.

$$\hat {J} _ {k _ {0}} = \sum_ {k = k _ {0}} ^ {k _ {0} + N} \left[ c \left(q ^ {\top} x _ {k} ^ {p} - r _ {k}\right) ^ {2} + c \cdot q ^ {\top} \Sigma_ {k | k} ^ {p} q + I _ {k} ^ {\top} R I _ {k} + \right.
c _ {0} \sum_ {\substack {1 \leq i \leq n \\ i <   j \leq n}} \left\{\Sigma_ {k | k} ^ {p i, i} - 2 \Sigma_ {k | k} ^ {p i, j} + \Sigma_ {k | k} ^ {p j, j} + (x _ {k} ^ {p i} - x _ {k} ^ {p j}) ^ {2} \right\} \Bigg ]. \tag{16}
$$
