Remark 3: Any linear filter can be fully characterized by a complex gain that defines how it modifies the amplitude and phase of a sinusoidal input. In contrast, the DF (9) captures the amplitude and phase relationship between the input sinusoid (6) and the fundamental harmonic component (10) at the output of a given nonlinearity [28].

Consider the relay-type controller operating under an asymmetric sinusoidal input signal as defined in (6). The linear operator (7), which enables the propagation of the constant (bias) component through this nonlinearity, is given by

$$\overline {{{N _ {0}}}} (A, \sigma_ {0}) = \frac {2 \rho}{\pi \sigma_ {0}} \arcsin \left(\frac {\sigma_ {0}}{A}\right). \tag {11}$$

The sign function is odd which makes $\overline { { { N _ { Q } } } } ~ = ~ 0$ in (9), therefore, the linear filter to operate the sinusoidal component is

$$\overline {{{N _ {1}}}} (A, \sigma_ {0}) = \frac {4 \rho}{\pi A} \sqrt {1 - \left(\frac {\sigma_ {0}}{A}\right) ^ {2}}. \tag {12}$$

Figure 3 displays the input and output signals of the relaytype controller obtained from the simulations, using $\rho = 5 ,$ $\mu = 0 . 0 5$ , and the constant disturbance (3) denoted $f _ { 0 } = \eta$ with magnitude $\eta = 1$ . The key chattering parameters observed in the experiment at steady-state are as follows: oscillations amplitude $A = ( A _ { p } + A _ { n } ) / 2 = 0 . 1 6 3 4$ , oscillations period $T = t _ { \mathrm { o n } } + t _ { \mathrm { o f f } } = 0 . 3 2 7 2$ [s], bias component $\sigma _ { 0 } = 0 . 0 4 4 8 ,$ and average control value $u _ { 0 } = 0 . 9 9 9 4$ . Accordingly, the oscillations frequency is $\begin{array} { r } { \omega = \frac { 2 \pi } { T } = 1 9 . 2 0 2 9 } \end{array}$ [rad/s], and the ratio $| \sigma _ { 0 } | / A = 0 . 2 7 4 2$ is achieved. The average values of the signals over each fast-oscillations period are computed offline and included for reference. By substituting the parameters listed above into expressions (11)–(12), the following predictions can be made:

(i) The constant component (8) at the output of the relaytype controller is

$$u _ {0} ^ {*} = 0. 8 8 4 0, \tag {13}$$

resulting in a estimation error of 13% when compared to the simulation outcome. The average control in the experiment closely converges to $u _ { 0 } \approx f _ { 0 }$ (see Figure 3, bottom).

(ii) The control signal exhibits a square waveform with a duty cycle of 40%. The fundamental harmonic (10) at the output of the relay-type controller is given by

$$u _ {1} ^ {*} (t) = 6. 1 2 2 \sin (1 9. 2 0 2 9 t).$$

The Sinusoidal-Input Describing Function (SIDF) of the sign nonlinearity characterizes the input–output behavior of the relay-type controller when driven by an asymmetric sinusoidal input of the form (6), under the condition $| \sigma _ { 0 } | ~ < ~ A$ [28]. The prediction error associated with the bias component (13) remains within a tolerable margin—less than 15%—thus confirming the validity of the DFs (11)–(12) in capturing the steady-state response of the nonlinearity (2) under the given conditions.
