# B. ECM-based Low-fidelity Target MPC

The Rint model (or internal resistance model) is a simplified equivalent circuit model commonly used to represent the electrical behavior of rechargeable batteries, especially lithium-ion cells. In this model, the battery is described as an ideal voltage source (representing the open circuit voltage, OCV) in series with a resistor, which accounts for the internal resistance (Rint) of the cell. This internal resistance includes the ohmic resistance of the cell’s materials and interfaces (e.g., electrode-electrolyte) as well as contributions from charge transfer and diffusion processes.

The battery’s voltage response under load is modeled as the difference between the OCV and the voltage drop across the internal resistance, described mathematically as:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} S o C _ {k + 1} = S o C _ {k} + \frac {\eta \delta_ {k}}{Q _ {c}} I _ {k} \\ V _ {k} = h _ {O C V} (S o C _ {k}) + R _ {0} I _ {k}, \end{array} \right. \tag {9}
$$

where $S o C _ { k }$ denotes the state of charge at time step $k , ~ \eta$ is the Coulombic efficiency, $\delta _ { k }$ is the time interval between two consecutive time steps (in seconds), and $Q _ { c }$ represents the battery capacity (in Ah). $I _ { k }$ is the current at time step k $( I _ { k } > 0$ for charging and $I _ { k } < 0$ for discharging). $V _ { k }$ is the terminal voltage, $h _ { O C V } ( S o C _ { k } )$ represents the OCV as a function of $S \mathrm { o C , }$ and $R _ { 0 }$ is the internal resistance.

We can now formulate a low-fidelity MPC represented as (3), where the parameters $\theta \ : = \ \mathbf { c o l } ( q , r ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ represent the cost function weights, $S o C _ { k | t } : = x _ { k | t } \in \mathbb { R }$ is the lowfidelity system state, and $\Delta I _ { k | t } : = u _ { k | t } \in \mathbb { R }$ is the control input. The desired SoC target $S o C _ { \mathrm { d } }$ is denoted as $x ^ { * }$ , and the instantaneous and terminal cost function $g : \mathbb { R } \times \mathbb { R } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \to \mathbb { R }$ and $g _ { N } : \mathbb { R } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \to \mathbb { R }$ are defined as:

$$g (x _ {k | t}, u _ {k | t}; Q, R) = \| x _ {k | t} - x ^ {*} \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \| u _ {k | t} \| _ {R} ^ {2}, \tag {10a}g _ {N} (x _ {N | t}; Q) = \| x _ {N | t} - x ^ {*} \| _ {Q} ^ {2}. \tag {10b}$$

The system dynamics $f _ { k | t } : \mathbb { R } \times \mathbb { R } \to$ R with initial state $x _ { 0 \mid t }$ are expressed as:
