In this study, we extend the application of safe RL in power systems to Automatic Generation Control (AGC) persuaded by its pivotal role in power system stability. As a testament to its pivotal role, AGC has been the subject of extensive grid optimization research. Previous studies have sought to enhance AGC through various approaches, such as classical optimal PI control [8], evolutionary [9]–[11] and genetic [12], [13] algorithms, fuzzy logic [11], [14], [15], neural networks [16], and RL [17]–[20]. A significant research gap remains in developing safe RL algorithms for AGC.

RL stands to offer benefits for AGC dynamic optimization by employing a data-driven control strategy that integrates diverse system data, such as renewable energy forecasts, and enables dynamic responses to power disturbances [19], [20]. It reduces reliance on hard-to-obtain accurate system models [17], [20] and supports complex security constraints [19] and advanced regulation payment structures [18]. This paper focuses on a centralized RL-based AGC approach, where the RL agent supplements or replaces the centralized traditional AGC controller, with potential for future application of multiagent RL-based decentralized AGC systems.

In our approach to designing safe RL, we introduce a novel formulation of control barrier functions (CBFs) to guarantee the safety of AGC, effectively mitigating potentially unsafe RL actions. We empirically demonstrate that this CBF-based approach effectively prevents AGC failures during the learning process and enables the agent to converge to a highly efficient AGC policy. To the best of our knowledge, this research involves the first application of safe RL with formal safety guarantees to AGC. Below, we formulate the barrier functions, develop an actor-critic deep RL agent, and empirically verify the safety of the method on a two-area linearized power system. We briefly discuss a plan for necessary future work in Section V.

The paper is structured as follows: Section II provides a background on CBFs. In Section III, we outline the methodology for integrating CBFs and RL within a safe RL framework for AGC. Results are presented in Section IV, followed by conclusions and directions for future research in Section V.
