# II. BATTERY SYSTEMS DYNAMICS AND OBSERVATION MODELS OF DIFFERENT BATTERY CHEMISTRIES

We begin by reviewing standard approaches to modeling battery systems. The Coulomb counting method is typically used to model the battery dynamics in propagating its SOC. As discussed previously, the main drawbacks of this method come from the requirement of a high-accuracy initial condition, and the issue of sensor drift over time. These drawbacks will be mitigated in later sections by our proposed approach.

Coulomb counting is the integration of current drawn from or supplied to a battery over time, $\tau \in [ t _ { 0 } , t ] ,$ , which gives the state of charge as (for a battery indexed by $i ,$ $i \in \{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , n \}$ , n being the number of batteries in the system)

$$S O C ^ {i} (t) = S O C ^ {i} (t _ {0}) - \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t} \frac {\eta^ {i} I ^ {i} (\tau)}{Q _ {n o m} ^ {i}} d \tau , \tag {1}$$

where $I ^ { i } ( t )$ is the current, $Q _ { n o m } ^ { i }$ is the nominal battery capacity, and $\eta ^ { i }$ is the battery efficiency. In discrete-time, we represent the dynamics as follows

$$x _ {k + 1} ^ {i} = x _ {k} ^ {i} + \frac {\eta^ {i} \Delta t}{Q _ {n o m} ^ {i}} I _ {k} ^ {i} + w _ {k} ^ {i} \tag {2}$$

where $x _ { k } ^ { i } = S O C ( t _ { 0 } + k \Delta t )$ , for some sampling-time $\Delta t .$ and $w _ { k } ^ { i }$ is an additive process disturbance, representative of uncertainties such as integration errors, parasitic loads, temperature effects, and fluctuations in power supply.

Due to the stochasticity of the dynamics (2) and the initial condition $x _ { 0 } ^ { i }$ , the estimate of the SOC is refined by an OCV-SOC mapping, which is typically a nonlinear curve represented by

$$y _ {k} ^ {i} = h ^ {i} (x _ {k} ^ {i}) + v _ {k} ^ {i} \tag {3}$$

where $v _ { k } ^ { i }$ is an additive measurement noise. The nonlinear function $\dot { h } ^ { i } ( x _ { k } ^ { i } )$ can be modeled in many different forms, including a polynomial fit [16], exponential fit [17], or sum of sines [18], depending on the configuration and chemistry of the underlying battery. Because it is difficult to obtain an analytic relationship between the OCV and the SOC, the parameters of these curve-fittings are typically determined by experiments. A variety of OCV-SOC curves can be found in [16], [18], [19], and [20].

The OCV-SOC mapping $h ^ { i } ( x _ { k } ^ { i } )$ depends on many different factors such as battery chemistry, temperature, state of health, and curve fitting techniques, but the functions are typically monotonic and differentiable [21]. However, the voltage plateau and nonlinearities, which are common within these OCV-SOC curves, degrade or vary observability. Thus, we seek to apply methods of stochastic optimal control to improve both state estimation and control performance.
