# C. Safe Reinforcement Learning

The input measurements to AGC comprise the tie-line power flows between areas and area frequencies. Similarly, in the design of the RL agent, we configure the agent to observe these measurements. Using these observations, the RL agent calculates AGC power reference signals for AGC-participating generators, denoted as the input vector $P _ { r e f }$ in (7). Before dispatching AGC signals to the generators, the CBF block scrutinizes them to assess whether they could lead to a safety violation in the system. If not, the AGC signals are permitted; otherwise, they are blocked.

During offline training, we conclude the current RL training episode following a CBF flag to block AGC signals. The RL agent is rewarded based on the following reward function:

$$
\begin{array}{l} R = - \boldsymbol {r} _ {1} ^ {T} | \boldsymbol {f} | - \boldsymbol {r} _ {2} ^ {T} | \boldsymbol {P} _ {t i e} | - r _ {3} \boldsymbol {P} _ {r e f} ^ {T} \boldsymbol {P} _ {r e f} \\ - r _ {4} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {m} \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {G} _ {i}} \left(P _ {\text { ref }, i, j} - \frac {1}{| \mathcal {G} _ {i} |} \sum_ {k \in \mathcal {G} _ {i}} P _ {\text { ref }, i, k}\right) ^ {2} \tag {17} \\ - r _ {5} \{\text { CBF   flag } \} - r _ {6} \{\text { Safety   violation } \} \\ \end{array}
$$

The first two terms penalize the agent proportionally to the deviation in area frequencies and tie-line power flows. To optimize AGC, the agent must minimize these deviations. The third term penalizes the agent based on the change of AGC power dispatch to encourage smaller dispatch changes. We introduce the fourth term to encourage equal load sharing between generators in the same area; this term can be easily modified to encourage another load sharing policy, e.g., proportional load sharing per generator capacities. Note that $\mathcal { G } _ { i }$ denotes the set of generators in area i. The last two terms impose significant penalties when the agent triggers a CBF flag or undermines the CBF, resulting in a safety violation. Our inclusion of the last term is to demonstrates that the CBF prevents such events from occurring, serving as a safety guarantee to ensure RL actions do not violate safety. The hypothesis of the research is that the CBF-based approach prevents the agent from ever incurring the penalty expressed by the last term. We substantiate this hypothesis in the results.
