# II. PRELIMINARIES

An exact analytical tool for studying the nonlinear phenomena is often more difficult to obtain than employing an approximate yet sufficiently simple method that captures the system’s particular behaviors under specific conditions. Several techniques have been developed to answer different questions about the dynamics of nonlinear systems. The most common approach involves linearization—replacing each nonlinear operation with a linear approximation—and analyzing the resulting system [39]. However, this technique is only valid in small neighborhoods around an operating point; any system response that extends beyond these limits cannot be accurately captured unless multiple linearizations are performed around different operating points [40]. Moreover, many nonlinearities are discontinuous or non-differentiable near the operating point, making conventional linearization inapplicable. To bypass the small-signal restriction while preserving the analytical convenience of linear methods, an alternative is to characterize the nonlinear element’s behavior in response to a reasonably sized signal and approximate this behavior with a linear operator. This approach leads to different linear representations for the same nonlinear function, depending on the form or amplitude of the input signal [41].

The quasi-linear approximation that characterizes the inputoutput behavior of a nonlinear element under an asymmetric sinusoidal excitation—such as that given by (5)—is referred to as the Describing Function (DF) [28]. In the context of SM controllers, two canonical input waveform types are considered [37], [38]:

(a) bias: A drift in the input to the nonlinear function is expected. The nonlinearity can produce a biased output even in the absence of a constant input.   
(b) Sine wave: Any periodic signal generated by the nonlinearity is expected to approximate a sine wave after passing through the low-pass linear block present in the closed-loop.
