where $0 ~ < ~ \mu ~ \ll ~ 1$ denotes the actuator time constant. By applying the HB-based algorithm (25) to the linear block (41), the amplitude and frequency of the main chattering harmonics in (5) are predicted as

$$\omega^ {*} = \frac {\sqrt {1 - 2 b \mu}}{\mu}, \quad A ^ {*} = \frac {2 \rho \mu}{\pi (1 - 2 b \mu)}, \tag {42}$$

Remark 6: The chattering parameters predicted by (42) correspond to the modified sliding variable defined in (39). The associated amplitude of oscillations in the original tracking error signal can be computed as

$$a ^ {*} = \frac {2 \rho \mu^ {2}}{\pi (1 - 2 \mu b) (1 - \mu b)}, \tag {43}$$

while the frequency of fast motions remains unchanged.

1) Loeb’s Stability Criterion: According to [45], the corresponding orbital stability condition (30) for the linear block defined in (41), reduces to

$$1 - 2 b \mu > 0, \tag {44}$$

the design parameter must satisfy $b < 1 / ( 2 \mu )$ for a given actuator time constant µ to ensure orbital stability [45].

2) Linearized Models of Propagation: The EG of the relay-type controller is (33). Then, substituting the amplitude of fast-motions given by (42), the EG particularly results $K _ { n } = \sqrt { 1 - 2 b \mu } / \mu$ . Unlike in the case of discontinuous sliding modes, the bias component here appears simultaneously in both the sliding variable and the tracking error. Under Assumptions 2-3 and in accordance with Fig. 12, the sensitivity transfer functions allowing to compute the propagation of slow motions are given by:

• Sensitivity of the sliding variable to slow perturbations.

$$\frac {S _ {0} (\mathrm{s})}{f _ {0} (\mathrm{s})} = \frac {G (\mathrm{s}) G _ {s} (\mathrm{s})}{1 + \frac {K _ {n}}{\mathrm{s}} W (\mathrm{s})}, \tag {45}$$

• Sensitivity of the tracking error to slow perturbations.

$$\frac {\sigma_ {0} (\mathrm{s})}{f _ {0} (\mathrm{s})} = \frac {G (\mathrm{s})}{1 + \frac {K _ {n}}{\mathrm{s}} W (\mathrm{s})}, \tag {46}$$

where $\mathrm { s } = j \Omega$ denotes the Laplace complex frequency, G(s) is TF of the plant, $G _ { s } ( \mathrm { s } )$ represents the sensor dynamics, and $W ( \mathrm { s } ) ~ = ~ G _ { a } ( \mathrm { s } ) G ( \mathrm { s } ) G _ { s } ( \mathrm { s } )$ corresponds to the overall actuator–plant–sensor cascade. The parameter $K _ { n }$ is the EG of the relay-type controller computed in (32).
