# V. CONCLUSION

This paper illustrates the dynamic interaction mechanisms and evolutions of the GFM/GFL-RES hybrid system considering multi-mode control switching. The six control combination regions are derived first to clarify the operating modes and switching boundaries of the system. Then, the dynamic interactions between GFM/GFL-RES are revealed from the perspectives of energy transformation and dissipation. Two instability modes in the first-swing dominated by GFM/GFL-RES are uncovered under specific conditions. Furthermore, it is identified that the damping force applied to GFL-RES inherently exhibits a twodimensional characteristic, with the damping component provided by GFM-RES angular velocity demonstrating both spatial and temporal characteristics, further complicating the dynamic behavior of the GFM/GFL-RES hybrid system. The main conclusions are summarized as follows:

1) The control combinations of GFM/GFL-RES reshape the power flow distribution of the system, which intensifies the nonlinear coupling among state variables and may lead to discontinuities in power flow characteristics near switching boundaries.   
2) The SEP of the hybrid system corresponds to the intersection of the SEP sets of GFM/GFL-RES, whereas the UEP sets are determined by the union of their respective UEP sets. Under critical conditions, if the operating point first crosses the unstable boundary of the GFM-RES, the instability is GFM-dominated. Otherwise, it is GFLdominated.   
3) The potential forces of GFM/GFL-RES are mutually coupled. Meanwhile, the damping force of GFL-RES behaves as a two-dimensional form, with one component governed by the angular velocity of GFM-RES exhibiting both temporal and spatial variability.

With respect to the operation of practical power systems, the contributions of this paper can serve as a reference in the following aspects:
