# A. Switched System Theory

A continuous-time dynamical system with discrete switching characteristics [27] can be described as:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\boldsymbol {x}} = \boldsymbol {f} _ {n} (\boldsymbol {x}) \\ \boldsymbol {y} = \boldsymbol {g} _ {n} (\boldsymbol {x}) \\ n = \sigma (\boldsymbol {y}) \end{array} \right. \tag {1}
$$

where x denotes the state vector, which determines the future dynamic evolution of the system. y denotes the output vector and affects the switching process. denotes $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ subsystem. $f _ { n } \left( \cdot \right)$ and ${ \pmb g } _ { n } \left( \cdot \right)$ indicate the dynamic function and output function, respectively. $\sigma ( \cdot )$ denotes the switching function that governs the switching mechanism.

In this paper, the GFM/GFL-RES hybrid system is a multiinput multi-output system, where $\boldsymbol { y } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ consists of: 1) $I _ { \mathrm { F M , d q } } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ , the current magnitude of the inner voltage loop output of GFM-RES, and 2) $U _ { \mathrm { F L } }$ , the voltage magnitude of $\mathrm { G F L ^ { - } }$ RES at the point of common coupling (PCC). For clarity and readability, the subsequent analysis adopts the following simplifications: the relative virtual power angles $\delta _ { 1 2 }$ and $\delta _ { 1 3 }$ are used to denote the elements of x; the synchronization expressions of PSL and PLL are used to formulate $f _ { n } \left( \cdot \right)$ ; $I _ { \mathrm { F M , d q } } ^ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ and $U _ { \mathrm { F L } }$ together with their corresponding expressions are used to represent the elements of y and ${ \pmb g } _ { n } \left( \cdot \right)$ ; and the subsystem index is directly denoted by n instead of $\sigma ( y )$ .

Since GFM-RES includes two control modes (normal control and current saturation) and the GFL-RES includes three modes (LVRT, normal control, and HVRT), the total number of control combinations is six, i.e., $n = 6 . n = 1 { \sim } 3$ and $n = 4 { \sim } 6$ represent the control combinations where the GFM-RES operates in normal control and current saturation modes, respectively, while the GFL-RES operates under the three aforementioned controls.
