These systems experience a network burden or dropped data, making observer design a new and interesting challenge. The landscape of control systems has evolved with the introduction of networked control systems. These systems rely on communication channels to transmit data between sensors and controllers. As a consequence, minimizing the amount of data transmitted becomes a critical objective. Some existing research focuses on this challenge within the realm of networked control systems by exploring event-based observers Song et al. (2020) where the goal is to design efficient methods for state estimation while minimizing communication traffic. Few studies that delve into various categories of networked control systems and have proposed tailored solutions for each type to achieve optimal state estimation with minimal network burden can be found in Batmani (2021); Zhang and Feng (2014); Song et al. (2018). These articles investigated observer design for general linear systems without considering positivity constraints on state variables. A key gap remains in designing positive observers specifically for positive networked control systems. It is important to note that the concept of a positive observer differs significantly from that of a general observer. The key objective of a positive observer is to ensure that both the state estimates and the estimation error remain non-negative at all times. This characteristic has recently drawn increased attention from researchers. However, positive observer design on event-based measurement for continuous-time networked positive systems has not been discussed yet, motivating the current research on this gap.

In this work, an event-based positive state observer is designed for a positive linear system based on network communication. The main contributions of the proposed design approach are enumerated as follows:
