Remark 1. The event law (3), motivated by Yang et al. (2024), ensures that the next sampling occurs as soon as the error grows beyond the predefined threshold value $( \alpha \beta + \beta - 1 ) y ( t )$ . This guarantees that the sampling error is always bounded for an interval $t \in [ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } )$ .

The event-based positive observer for the positive system (1) with the sampled information of the output for $t \in [ t _ { k } , t _ { k + 1 } )$ is designed as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {\hat {x}} (t) = A \hat {x} (t) + \beta L y \left(t _ {k}\right) - L \hat {y} (t), \\ \hat {x} (t) = G \hat {x} (t). \end{array} \tag {6}
\hat {y} (t) = C \hat {x} (t),$$

where ${ \hat { x } } ( t )$ is the estimate of state $x ( t ) , \hat { y } ( t )$ is the observer output and $y ( t _ { k } )$ is the data packet received by the observer. $\ b { L } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times r }$ is the observer gain matrix to be designed.

Putting $\beta y ( t _ { k } ) = \epsilon ( t ) + y ( t )$ from (2) in (6), we have

$$\dot {\hat {x}} (t) = (A - L C) \hat {x} (t) + L \epsilon (t) + L y (t). \tag {7}$$

Let the estimation error be defined as $e ( t ) = { \hat { x } } ( t ) - x ( t )$ , then the error dynamics of the observer are described as follows:

$$\dot {e} (t) = (A - L C) e (t) + L \epsilon (t). \tag {8}$$

Now defining $\begin{array} { r l } { \boldsymbol { \xi } ( t ) \triangleq \left[ \boldsymbol { x } ^ { \intercal } ( t ) \quad e ^ { \intercal } ( t ) \right] ^ { \intercal } } \end{array}$ , the augmented system can be described as:

$$
\dot {\xi} (t) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A & 0 \\ 0 & A - L C \end{array} \right] \xi (t) + \left[ \begin{array}{l} 0 \\ L \end{array} \right] \epsilon (t). \tag {9}
$$

The main objective of this paper is to design an event-based positive observer such that observation error, $e ( t ) = { \hat { x } } ( t ) - x ( t )$ , converges asymptotically to zero, i.e., $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  0 } e ( t ) = 0 } \end{array}$ . We summarize the requirement as follows:

Problem 1. For a positive system (1), design an event-based positive observer gain matrix L with an event law (3) such that the augmented system in (9) is positive and asymptotically stable. Also, the system does not exhibit Zeno behavior.
