The Koopman operator provides a linear representation framework for nonlinear dynamical systems. To formalize this, we define a finite-dimensional dictionary of observables $\Psi ( x ) = [ \psi _ { 1 } ( x ) \ \cdot \cdot \cdot \ \psi _ { N } ( x ) ] ^ { \intercal } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N }$ with each of $\psi _ { i } : \mathbb { X } \to \dot { \mathbb { R } }$ continuously differentiable. In general, to fully capture nonlinear dynamics, embedding dimension $N$ usually exceeds that of original state n $( { \mathrm { i . e . , } } N > n )$ , leading to the concept of lifted system representation.

When these observables form Koopman-invariant subspaces, they enable exact linear embeddings of (1). An important case emerges when the dictionary consists of Koopman eigenfunctions $\Phi ( x ) = [ \phi _ { \lambda _ { 1 } } ( x ) \ \cdot \ \cdot \ \phi _ { \lambda _ { N } } ( x ) ] ^ { \top }$ associated with eigenvalues $\{ \lambda _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N }$ , inducing

$$\frac {\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d} t} \Phi (x) = \Lambda \Phi (x), \quad \Lambda = \operatorname{diag} (\lambda_ {1}, \dots , \lambda_ {N}). \tag {6}$$

More generally, any dictionary $\Psi ( x )$ related to eigenfunctions through invertible linear transformation $\breve { T } \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N } \ ( \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \Psi ( x ) = T \Phi ( x )$ , $\operatorname* { d e t } ( T ) \neq 0 )$ preserves linearity in the lifted coordinates.

Certainly, beyond Koopman eigenfunctions, dictionary functions can be selected via diverse methods, such as various polynomials [34] or kernels [25]. A general approach still remains challenging.

Now we consider the control-affine nonlinear system with unknown-but-bounded process disturbance, i.e.,

$$\dot {x} (t) = f (x) + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {m} g _ {i} (x) u _ {i} + \overline {{d}} \tag {7}$$

where $x \in \mathbb { X } , u = \left[ u _ { 1 } \ \cdot \cdot \cdot \ u _ { m } \right] ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { U }$ are the state and input respectively. The disturbance d can be a function of $t , x . \mathbb { X } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $\mathbb { U } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ are assumed as compact sets, also $f , g _ { i } , i = 1 , \cdots$ , m are assumed to be continuously differentiable. This paper aims to design a proper controller $\kappa : \mathbb R ^ { n }  \mathbb R ^ { m }$ such that the origin of closedloop system (8) is stable under a bounded process disturbance d in whatever possible form.

$$\dot {x} (t) = f (x) + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {m} g _ {i} (x) \kappa_ {i} (x) + \overline {{d}} \tag {8}$$
