This paper investigates the dynamic mechanisms of GFM/GFL-RES hybrid systems under multi-mode control switching, establishing six control combination regions to define switching boundaries and operating modes. It reveals energy-based interactions and two distinct instability modes. Moreover, a unique two-dimensional damping characteristic is identified owing to GFM/GFL-RES interactions. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:

1) The feasible regions corresponding to the six control combinations of the GFM/GFL-RES hybrid systems are uncovered for the first time, i.e., resulting from the pairing of two GFM-RES modes (normal control and current saturation) and three GFL-RES modes (normal control, LVRT, and HVRT).   
2) The energy transformation and dissipation of the hybrid systems are derived considering the coupling of power flow coupling and dynamics, in which the former influences the potential force of the GFM/GFL-RSE, and both jointly affect the damping characteristics of GFL-RES.   
3) Based on the theoretical analysis, the principles for identifying the first-swing instability modes of the GFM/GFL-RES hybrid system are proposed under critical conditions. Meanwhile, the criterion for determining the GFM-RES’s effect on GFL-RES is also developed within the context of the identified two-dimensional damping of GFL-RES.

The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section II establishes the mathematic models for both GFM/GFL-RES and the hybrid system. Section III derives the feasible regions of six control combinations and further investigates the energy transformation and dissipation characteristics of the system. Based on theoretical analysis, the first-swing instability is identified, along with the mechanisms by which GFM-RES may either enhance or deteriorate the stability of GFL-RES. Section IV validates the effectiveness of the proposed multi-machine analysis framework. Section V draws the conclusions.
