1) During system planning and RES control design, the derivations presented herein can be utilized to enhance the first-swing stability of synchronized systems and increase stability margins.   
2) The proposed dominant instability mode identification method can be applied to locate and recognize the dominant unstable device, clarify the underlying instability mechanism, and provide guidance for grid operators to perform precise converter tripping and rapid disturbance source isolation.   
3) The interaction mechanisms investigated in this paper

provide a basis for enhancing the self-stabilizing capability of devices that are electrically distant through improved individual control of GFM/GFL-RESs. For devices that are electrically close, the results offer guidance for implementing coordinated control among GFM/GFL-RESs, thereby strengthening their mutual-stabilizing capability, mitigating adverse interactions, and ultimately improving the transient stability of next-generation power-electronics-dominated power systems.

Future work will focus on the stability analysis of bulk systems with diverse energy sources and the coordinated control among various RESs. In addition, Fig. 16 provides a conceptual illustration, based on the proposed framework, for analyzing the dynamics of multi-machine systems. We aim to highlight the extensibility of this study and outline potential challenges for future research:

1) Diversity of energy sources: In practical power systems, different types of energy sources may be equipped with heterogeneous control mechanisms, which in turn affect certain characteristics of the sources. For a typical GFL-RES, for instance, its damping behavior is directly influenced by voltage characteristics due to its V-f synchronization property. In a single-machine infinite-bus model, the spatial variation of damping is only reflected in the relative virtual power angle with respect to the system. However, when other sources are taken into account, the complexity of damping

characteristics increases significantly, making the dynamic analysis of such devices more challenging. Nevertheless, the proposed modeling approach is generalizable, and by following the derivation procedure presented in this paper, the impacts of different synchronization loops and outer voltage/current loops [29] can be systematically analyzed.
