# 5.2 Comparison with Existing Works

Centering on the impacts of uncertainties on data-driven nonlinear stabilization leveraging the Koopman operator, Theorems 1 and 2 are presented herein. Both direct and indirect data-driven control methodologies are examined. Compared with existing results, several conceptual innovations and insights are synthesized as follows.

Preserving the generality is of paramount importance. As detailed in Section 3.2, different methodologies are integrated into a unified framework, addressing approximation error and process disturbance based on their intrinsic properties. If needed, the approximation error can also be handled via the process disturbance approach, for example, [7] defines a residual dataset with a bounded energy assumption

$$R _ {0} = [ r _ {0} r _ {1} \dots r _ {T - 1} ], R _ {0} ^ {\top} R _ {0} < \overline {{R}} \tag {66}$$

which is similar to the method in (19) and (21). Furthermore, the state feedback control follows a more general structure $u = L ^ { \top } P ^ { - 1 } z$ compared with a relatively special form $u = U _ { 0 } H ( Z _ { 0 } H ) ^ { - 1 } z$ , since H is solved by an LMI under some additional assumptions and matrices $L , P$ admit more flexible tuning of controller design. Notably, no strict assumption is imposed on the dictionary functions $\Psi ( x )$ or the lifted bilinear system (17), collectively reducing limitations of theoretical framework in practice.

Mitigating conservatism via targeted efforts remains a critical pursuit. To this end, we depart from reasoning in references like [2], which studies data-driven stabilization of bilinear systems under $\| B _ { 1 } \| \le \delta _ { 1 }$ . Applying the strict Petersen’s lemma (Lemma 2 in this paper), matrix inequality of the form (see [2, Lemma 4])

$$\mathbf {C} + \mathbf {M} \frac {B _ {1}}{\delta_ {1}} \mathbf {N} ^ {\top} + \mathbf {N} \frac {B _ {1} ^ {\top}}{\delta_ {1}} \mathbf {M} ^ {\top} \prec 0 \tag {67}$$

leads to the existence of $\mu > 0$ such that

$$\mathbf {C} + \mu \mathbf {M M} ^ {\top} + \mu^ {- 1} \mathbf {N N} ^ {\top} \prec 0. \tag {68}$$
