However, all the aforementioned studies [7]-[18] are limited to the control switching characteristics of the singlemachine-infinite-bus system while neglecting the energy diversity in practical modern power systems. The investigation of transient stability of multi-machine systems with multi-type RESs is still in its early stages, especially with regard to scenarios characterized by multi-mode switching dynamics. Considering the LVRT strategy, Ref [21] proposed a transient stability assessment method for multiparalleled wind farms by solving the existence of SEPs of wind farms during fault. However, evaluating transient stability solely from the perspective of SEP existence yields results that are either conservative or overly optimistic. Ref [22] derives the dynamic interaction between GFM/GFL-RES under the assumption of fixed control modes. Ref [23] analyzes the dynamic model of systems with GFM/GFL-RES and synchronous generator (SG), while systematically proposing a nonlinear backstepping control. Nevertheless, it lacks in-depth investigation into stability mechanisms and provides limited analysis of the impact of transient control switching. Ref [24] conducted a modeling study on a gridconnected system with parallel GFM-RES, examining the interaction characteristics of two machines considering current saturation control switching. However, it lacks an indepth theoretical analysis. Ref [25] reveals the mechanicalelectrical coupling between GFM/GFL-RES and illustrates a new electromechanical synchronous issue. Still, only the transient switching characteristics of GFL-RES are considered. Considering the dynamic characteristics of lowinertia power systems, Ref [26] applied the Zubov method to address the challenge of attraction region estimation in the presence of negative damping introduced by GFL-RES. Its theoretical model is also equivalent to a two-machine system. Nonetheless, the studied two-machine system in [25] and [26] can be characterized by one independent relative angle, which simplifies the multi-machine interaction. To summarize, most existing efforts primarily focus on control switching governed by a single source, neglecting the coupling of multimode switching phenomena that arise from interactions among multiple machines.
