The sufficient conditions for the positivity and asymptotic stability of the system (9) are given in Theorem 1, which leads to the design of a positive observer for the given positive system. Taking into consideration this criterion, the positive state observer design is presented. Subsequently, for the nonexistence of Zeno behavior, a sufficient condition is proposed in Theorem 2.

Theorem 1. Problem 1 has a solution if for constants $\alpha > 0$ and $\beta > 1$ , there exist a real constant $\lambda > 0 ,$ , positive definite diagonal matrices P , Q and a matrix $W > 0 ,$ , such that the following holds,

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} P A + A ^ {\top} P & (\alpha \beta + \beta - 1) C ^ {\top} W ^ {\top} \\ * & Q A + A ^ {\top} Q - W C - C ^ {\top} W ^ {\top} \end{array} \right] \prec 0 \tag {10}
Q A - W C + \lambda Q I \geq 0. \tag {11}$$

Under these conditions, the positive observer gain matrix L is given as $L = Q ^ { - 1 } W$ .

Proof. The closed-loop system in (9) can be rewritten as follows:

$$\dot {\xi} (t) = \bar {A} \xi (t) + \bar {L} \epsilon (t), \tag {12}$$

$\bar { A } = \left[ \begin{array} { c c } { { A } } & { { 0 } } \\ { { 0 } } & { { A - L C } } \end{array} \right]$ $\bar { L } = \binom { 0 } { L }$

The stability analysis of system (9) is given below.

Consider the Lyapunov candidate as:

$$V = \xi^ {\top} (t) D \xi (t). \tag {13}$$

where D is a diagonal positive definite matrix. Taking the time derivative of (13) along the trajectories of (12)

$$\dot {V} = \xi^ {\top} (t) D \dot {\xi} (t) + \dot {\xi} ^ {\top} (t) D \xi (t). \tag {14}$$

From (12),

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {V} = \xi^ {\top} (t) D (\bar {A} \xi (t) + \bar {L} \epsilon (t)) + (\bar {A} \xi (t) + \bar {L} \epsilon (t)) ^ {\top} D \xi (t), \\ = \xi^ {\top} (t) (D \bar {A} + \bar {A} ^ {\top} D) \xi (t) + \xi^ {\top} (t) D \bar {L} \epsilon (t) + \epsilon^ {\top} (t) \bar {L} ^ {\top} D \xi (t), \\ = \xi^ {\top} (t) (D \bar {A} + \bar {A} ^ {\top} D) \xi (t) + 2 \xi^ {\top} (t) D \bar {L} \epsilon (t). \tag {15} \\ \end{array}
$$

From the event law (3), the above equality can be reduced to

$$\dot {V} \leq \xi^ {\top} (t) (D \bar {A} + \bar {A} ^ {\top} D) \xi (t) + 2 \xi^ {\top} (t) D \bar {L} (\alpha \beta + \beta - 1) C x (t). \tag {16}$$
