1) Dominant Instability Mode: Considering the coupling between state variables and control combination region $R _ { n }$ , the characteristics of the potential forces $F _ { \mathrm { F M , p } }$ and $F _ { \mathrm { F L , p } }$ with respect to $\delta _ { 1 2 }$ and $\delta _ { 1 3 }$ are visualized in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7, respectively. The subfigure (b) can be interpreted as a top view of subfigure (a), in which the regions filled with white solid stripes $( \mathrm { i } . \mathrm { e } . , R _ { \mathrm { F M , p } } ^ { + }$ and $R _ { \mathrm { F L , p } } ^ { + } )$ indicate that the potential forces provide a braking effect in these areas. Additionally, the black solid curves in subfigure (b) denote the zero-level contour of the potential force, which can be realized as the extension of SEP and UEP of a two-machine system to a multi-machine system.

For a stable three-machine system, it is essential to ensure that both GFM-RES and GFL-RES asymptotically return to the initial SEP after a disturbance. This requirement implies that the initial SEP must satisfy both $\hat { \partial } P _ { \mathrm { F M } } / \hat { \partial } \delta _ { 1 2 } > 0$ and $\hat { \sigma } P _ { \mathrm { F L } } / \hat { \sigma } \delta _ { 1 3 } > 0$ . Hence, the SEP in the three-machine system can be expressed as:

$$
\operatorname{SEP} \in \left\{\vartheta \in \Theta \left| \begin{array}{c} \frac {\partial P _ {\mathrm{FM}} (\vartheta)}{\partial \delta_ {1 2}} > 0, \frac {\partial u _ {\mathrm{FL} , \mathrm{q}} (\vartheta)}{\partial \delta_ {1 3}} <   0, \\ P _ {\mathrm{FM}} (\vartheta) = P _ {\mathrm{FM}} ^ {\text { ref }}, u _ {\mathrm{FL}, \mathrm{q}} (\vartheta) = 0 \end{array} \right. \right\} \tag {34}
$$

where is defined as a point in the $\delta _ { 1 2 } - \delta _ { 1 3 }$ phase space. $\mathcal { O } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ indicates the operation region of the system. Furthermore, the UEP in the GFM/GFL-RES hybrid system can be expressed as:

$$
\mathrm{UEP} \in \left\{\vartheta \in \Theta \left| \left[ \frac {\partial P _ {\mathrm{FM}} (\vartheta)}{\partial \delta_ {1 2}} <   0 \vee \frac {\partial u _ {\mathrm{FL,q}} (\vartheta)}{\partial \delta_ {1 3}} > 0 \right], \right. \right. \\ \left. P _ {\mathrm{FM}} (\vartheta) = P _ {\mathrm{FM}} ^ {\text {ref}}, u _ {\mathrm{FL,q}} (\vartheta) = 0 \right\} \tag {35}
$$
