(i) A novel positive observer with event-based measurement law is proposed for a networked positive linear system.   
(ii) For ensuring the positivity and asymptotic stability of the observer with sampled information, sufficient conditions are established in the Linear Matrix Inequality (LMI) framework.   
(iii) A positive minimum bound on Inter-Execution Time (IET) is ensured through the proposed design in order to exclude Zeno behaviour.   
(iv) The proposed observer is verified through simulation on a three-tank system having variable crosssection.

Notation: In the manuscript, the following notations are used. $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and Rn stand for n−dimensional vector defined over the set of real numbers and positive real numbers, respectively. $\mathbb { R } ^ { m \times n }$ and $\mathbb { R } _ { + } ^ { m \times n }$ represent matrices of dimension $m \times n$ over set of real number and positive real number. $A \geq 0 , A \stackrel { . } { > } 0$ , $A \leq 0$ , and $A < 0$ denote that the elements of matrix A are all non-negative, positive, non-positive, and negative, respectively. Similarly, for vector $a \geq b$ denotes that the elements $a _ { i }$ of vector a are all greater than or equal to the elements $b _ { i }$ of vector $b , A \succ 0$ and $A \prec 0$ denote the positive and negative definiteness of a matrix, respectively. $A ^ { \top }$ denotes the transpose of a matrix A. $\| A \|$ represents Euclidean norm of a matrix A. ∗ represents a symmetric matrix.
