# 1.3 Motivations and Contributions

Building upon the preceding discussions, this paper aims to simultaneously handle the aforementioned three categories of uncertainties in a unified framework to address nonlinear feedback stabilization problems in Koopmanbased data-driven control. Our theoretical contributions deliver dual-functional values, not only in practically synthesizing robust controllers, but also in theoretically analyzing effects of different uncertainties and evaluating the robustness of pre-designed controllers. This ensures the generality of proposed results in both theory and application. Additionally with this thought in mind, direct and indirect data-driven approaches are investigated respectively, enabling a flexible selection of appropriate methodologies for analysis and control. As a significant tool of robust control theory, Petersen’s lemma is fully utilized [3] to derive the theoretical results.

The main contributions are listed as follows.

• We account for unknown-but-bounded process disturbance (with a similar approach applicable to bounded noise) and integrate it with the approximation error into a unified framework, enabling systematic analysis of their impacts on Koopman-based nonlinear stabilization. To our knowledge, this constitutes the first comprehensive investigation of all such uncertainties, yielding general theoretical results for closed-loop stability guarantees.   
• For direct data-driven control approach, an LMIbased lifted-state feedback controller design method is proposed to stabilize all of the bilinear systems consistent with noisy data even in the presence of approximation error. This addresses a critical gap in existing literature on Koopman-based direct datadriven control, also serves as a criterion to analyze the robustness of pre-designed controllers as well.   
• For indirect data-driven control approach, we propose a lifted-state feedback controller based on a concise nonlinear matrix inequality, which extends the findings of [29] by explicitly incorporating the process disturbance (noise) alongside the projection error. This nonlinear matrix inequality can be converted into an LMI for computation and also serves as a criterion to analyze the robustness of pre-designed controllers.
