thereby from (32) one can get

$$t _ {k + 1} - t _ {k} \geq \frac {\alpha}{(\alpha + 1) \| A \|} > 0. \tag {34}$$

Thus, the Zeno behavior is excluded. The proof is completed.

Remark 2. Theorem 2 provides an insight of the connection between the minimum positive value of IET and the parameter α. Let δ represent the minimum positive bound of IET. Based on Theorem 2, we have the ability to establish a function, denoted as $\mathcal { F } : \mathbb { R } _ { + } \longrightarrow \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ , that maps the parameter α to δ as: $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal F ( \alpha ) = \frac { \alpha } { ( \alpha + 1 ) \| A \| } = \frac { 1 } { ( 1 + \frac { 1 } { \alpha } ) \| A \| } } \end{array}$ . It can be observed that the function $\textstyle { \mathcal { F } } ( \alpha )$ decreases as α decreases within the range of $0 < \alpha < 1$ , leading to more number of times the system updates, thereby making the conditions of Theorem 1 more conservative in terms of communication efficiency.

We have proposed an event-based positive state observer for positive systems. These findings have the potential to be applied in other disciplines. For example, the population changes of specific species, like pests, can be represented using positive systems Wang et al. (2016). The amount of juvenile pests can be approximated using a designed state observer, based on measurements of both immature and adult bugs. Another utilization can be observed in the field of clinical pharmacology. An example of this is that the way anaesthetic is distributed and transferred in the human body may also be explained using positive systems Haddad et al. (2006). It is generally recognized that the anaesthetic will be distributed throughout various parts of the human body, such as the fat, muscles, vessels, and organs. Based on mass balance, the dynamics of anaesthetic dispersion can be modelled as a compartmental system, a specific form of positive system. A positive state observer that has been specifically designed can be employed to approximate the quantity of the substance in a specific compartment. Furthermore, our findings can also be extended to domains such as ecological dynamics Farina and Rinaldi (2000) and epidemic models Khanafer et al. (2016), among others. In the current work we employed our proposed event-based positive observer on a multitank water system (in Example 2) for estimating the water levels in the three storage tanks.

Remark 3. This article proposes an event-based positive observer for a linear positive autonomous system (1) to estimate the non-negative states. However, the proposed design approach can be extended to a linear positive system with inputs.
