# 4.1 Projection-based norm and a Hankel-form SPC

We first consider the following bi-level problem

$$
\begin{array}{l} \min_{\substack{g,\sigma_{y}\in \Gamma ,\\ u\in \mathcal{U},y\in \mathcal{Y}}}\| y\|_{Q}^{2} + \| u\|_{R}^{2} + \lambda_{y}\| \sigma_{y}\|_{2}^{2} \\ \text { where } H ^ {*} \in \underset {\tilde {H}, K} {\operatorname{argmin}} \| \tilde {H} - H _ {\mathrm{d}} \| _ {F} ^ {2} \\ \end{array}
$$

which only considers the $\mathrm { S P C }$ constraint (10b) for the inner identification. This bi-level DDPC (19) is much simpler than the general one (7). However, for a fixed $\lambda _ { y } > 0$ , the optimal value of (19) is not necessarily lower than that of (7). This is because dropping constraints in the inner problem (10) does not necessarily enlarge its optimal solution set, which constitutes the feasible region of the outer problem. Therefore, similar to Example 1, (19) is not a relaxation of (7).

It is not difficult to derive the unique optimal solution $H _ { \mathrm { s } } ^ { \ast }$ for the inner problem in (19), which can be obtained via Moore–Penrose inverse as $\ddot { H } _ { \mathrm { s } } ^ { \ast } = \mathrm { c o l } ( U _ { \mathrm { P } } , Y _ { \mathrm { P } } , U _ { \mathrm { F } } , M )$ where $M = Y _ { \mathrm { F } } \Pi _ { 1 }$ with

$$\Pi_ {1} := H _ {1} ^ {\dagger} H _ {1}, \quad H _ {1} := \operatorname{col} (U _ {\mathrm{P}}, Y _ {\mathrm{P}}, U _ {\mathrm{F}}). \tag {20}$$

Then, the bi-level problem (19) is equivalent to

$$
\min_ {\substack {g, \sigma_ {y} \in \Gamma , \\ u \in \mathcal {U}, y \in \mathcal {Y}}} \| u \| _ {R} ^ {2} + \| y \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \lambda_ {y} \| \sigma_ {y} \| _ {2} ^ {2} \tag{21}
$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t \ t o \ } H _ { \mathrm { s } } ^ { \ast } g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) .$

Note that (21) differs slightly from the classical SPC formulation, and we call it Equality-form SPC. In particular, the classical SPC does not involve the use of an identified trajectory library $H _ { \mathrm { s } } ^ { \ast }$ ; instead, it employs an explicit multi-step predictor (also see Remark 2). We provide further details in Appendix B.1.

Following the discussion in Section 3.3, we here fix $H =$ $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ and impose a constraint on g to get an equivalent reformulation for (21). In this case, we use a projectionbased norm $\| ( I - \operatorname { i n } _ { 1 } ) g \| _ { 2 }$ as in [1], and consider
