Remark 4 (LTI systems and beyond) Constraints (34a)-(34c) are necessary for the Hankel matrix H to come from an LTI system, but they are not sufficient. As discussed in [1], the parameter K needs to satisfy additional structure requirements to ensure the existence of the corresponding matrix parameters A, B, C, D in (1). For nonlinear systems, making the data matrix H more structured, as in the LTI setting, may introduce a larger bias error. Our proposed A-DDPC in (38) preserves the linear, low-rank structure, and causality without requiring the predictor $H _ { \mathrm { o p } } ^ { * }$ to exactly correspond to an LTI system. This hybrid preprocessing and regularization imposes certain system structure but also gives flexibility to allow (38) to select model complexity implicitly, thus improving empirical control performance.

Remark 5 (Complexity of DDPC variants) L-DDPC (23), C-DDPC (29), and A-DDPC (38) have the same optimization form and thus share similar online computational complexity. Their main difference lies in the construction of trajectory libraries and the choice of regularizers. Using the equality constraints, we can eliminate u, $y , \sigma _ { y } $ , so that the only decision variable is g, whose dimension is $T - T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } - N + 1$ . For standard LTI systems, the length of the pre-collected trajectory to ensure the persistent exciting of the input is $( m + 1 ) ( T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + N + n ) - 1$ , and we can choose $T _ { \mathrm { i n i } } = n$ . In this case, g has dimension $m ( N + 2 n ) + n ,$ , which is 2mn + n larger than that in classical MPC and is thus of comparable order. For systems beyond LTI settings, a longer pre-collected trajectory is generally needed to capture richer system behavior. In our experiments, the computation time $f o r$ systems beyond LTI settings is on the order of $1 0 ^ { - 2 } \mathrm { s } ,$ which remains suitable for real-time implementation.
