# 3.2 A direct approach via penalty methods

With the inner identification (10), the bi-level formulation (7) is an indirect DDPC. Using penalty methods, the bi-level structure can be transformed into a single-level problem. This is a standard idea in bi-level optimization [50] and has been recently used to analyze direct data-driven control in [1]. We adopt a similar strategy here, but also highlight a subtle point that leads to some conceptual inaccuracies in [1].

A key step involves replacing the inner optimization problem (10) with equivalent (but implicit) constraints, which are then incorporated into the objective function via penalty methods. One conceptually simple way is to assume the existence of a set of optimality conditions $H \in { \mathcal { C } } _ { \mathrm { o p t } } ,$ , where $\mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { o p t } }$ denotes the optimality constraints for the inner problem (10). Then, we can write problem (7) equivalently as

$$
\min_{\substack{g,\sigma_{y}\in \Gamma ,H,\\ u\in \mathcal{U},y\in \mathcal{Y}}}\| y\|_{Q}^{2} + \| u\|_{R}^{2} + \lambda_{y}\| \sigma_{y}\|_{2}^{2}
$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t \ t o \ } \ H g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) ,$ (11a)

$$H \in \mathcal {C} _ {\text { opt }}. \tag {11b}$$

We note that (11) is only of a conceptual use at this stage, as (11b) may not be known explicitly. We next consider a continuous penalty function satisfying

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l l} p (H) = 0, & \text { if } H \in \mathcal {C} _ {\mathrm{opt}}, \\ p (H) > 0, & \text { if } H \notin \mathcal {C} _ {\mathrm{opt}}. \end{array} \right. \tag {12}
$$

Now, we can write a penalized problem

$$
\min_ {\substack {g, \sigma_ {y} \in \Gamma , H, \\ u \in \mathcal {U}, y \in \mathcal {Y}}} \| y \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \| u \| _ {R} ^ {2} + \lambda_ {y} \| \sigma_ {y} \| _ {2} ^ {2} + \lambda p (H) \tag{13}
$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t \ t o } \quad H g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) .$

Under a mild assumption (see e.g., [51, Theorem $6 . 6 ] )$ , we can ensure that as the penalty parameter $\lambda \to \infty$ , the optimal solution of (13) converges to an optimal solution of (11), i.e., the original bi-level problem (7). If we use a small penalty parameter $\lambda ,$ the single-level formulation (13) becomes a relaxation of $( 7 ) , i . e .$ , the optimal value of (13) is smaller than that in (7).
