Table II shows the worst-case variances for the scaled outputs. After scaling, the DR controller achieves significantly lower variances for the rotor speed ω and a lower flapwise displacement h compared to the $H _ { 2 }$ controller. In particular, the DR controller is now able to meet the design requirements. The torsional angle ϕ remains nearly identical for both controllers, while the control input u shows a higher variance for the DR controller, indicating that more aggressive control actions are required to mitigate the disturbances in the flapwise and rotor speed outputs.

The results highlight the capabilities of the DR controller to mitigate worst-case disturbances, particularly for ω and $h ,$ by accounting for distributional uncertainty in ${ \mathcal { W } } _ { \mathrm { c o r } }$ . This is confirmed by the Bode diagrams supplemented in Figure 2, which display the amplitude response from the wind disturbance to each of the performance outputs. We see that the DR controller achieves a significantly lower amplitude response for the rotor speed ω compared to the $H _ { 2 }$ controller. The amplitude responses for the torsional angle $\phi$ are essentially identical for both controllers, while the control input u shows a higher response for the DR controller. The peaks of these amplitude responses correspond to the frequencies where the disturbances have the most significant impact on the outputs. We emphasize that we believe that $H _ { 2 }$ controllers can be designed to meet the design requirements as well (e.g., with frequency dependent weightings). However, for the specific performance criteria investigated here, the DR controller should be easier to tune, since it is designed to meet those criteria directly.

We mention that representative worst-case disturbances designed with (21) yield wind variances of approximately 1.94 $\mathrm { { m } ^ { 2 } / \mathrm { { s } ^ { 2 } } }$ (axial) and $1 . 7 2 ~ \mathrm { m ^ { 2 } / s ^ { 2 } }$ (vertical). These are realistic for offshore or moderate onshore conditions at wind speeds of 9.5 m/s, aligning with typical turbulence models (turbulence intensity ≈ 14.6%) [2].
