$$
\mathbb {E} \left( \begin{array}{c} \hat {\chi} (t) \\ w (t) \\ \hat {w} (t) \end{array} \right) \left( \begin{array}{c} \hat {\chi} (t) \\ w (t) \\ \hat {w} (t) \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} = \left( \begin{array}{c} \Sigma_ {\chi \chi} \\ \Sigma_ {w \chi} \\ \Sigma_ {\hat {w} \chi} \end{array} \right) \left( \begin{array}{c} I \\ F _ {w \chi} \\ F _ {\hat {w} \chi} \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} + \left( \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ F _ {w d} \\ F _ {\hat {w} d} \end{array} \right) \left( \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ F _ {w d} \\ F _ {\hat {w} d} \end{array} \right) ^ {\top},
$$

which is equal to Σ. Next, recalling the recursive definition (10d) of $\hat { \chi } .$ , we obtain

$$
\mathbb {E} \hat {\chi} (t + 1) \hat {\chi} (t + 1) ^ {\top} = \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} & \mathcal {B} & 0 \end{array} \right) \Sigma \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} & \mathcal {B} & 0 \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} \stackrel {(6 b)} {=} \Sigma_ {\chi \chi}.
$$

Consequently, with (10a) being the start of an induction argument on t, it follows that $\mathbb { E } \hat { \chi } ( t ) \hat { \chi } ( t ) ^ { \intercal } = \Sigma _ { \chi \chi }$ for all $t \in  { \mathbb { N } } _ { 0 }$ . This completes the proof of Step 1.

Step 2: The stochastic processes w, wˆ satisfy (5c) and (5d).

Since the joint moment matrix of ${ \hat { \chi } } ( t ) , w ( t ) , { \hat { w } } ( t )$ equals Σ, the joint moment matrix of $w ( t ) , \hat { w } ( t )$ is given by

$$
\left( \begin{array}{c c} \Sigma_ {w w} & \Sigma_ {w \hat {w}} \\ \Sigma_ {\hat {w} w} & \Sigma_ {\hat {w} \hat {w}} \end{array} \right).
$$

Consequently, (6c) implies that the stochastic processes w and wˆ satisfy (5c). In addition, each $\hat { w } ( t )$ is a zero mean normal random variable by construction. Hence, it has second moment matrix $2 \sin \pi$ and satisfies (5d).

Step 3: Apply w to the closed-loop (4b). Then the moments of ${ \chi ( t ) - \hat { \chi } ( t ) }$ converge to zero exponentially as $t \to \infty$ .

If (w, wˆ) is employed in (5), a stochastic process χ is generated. By subtracting (10d) from (5b), we obtain

$$\chi (t + 1) - \hat {\chi} (t + 1) = \mathcal {A} (\chi (t) - \hat {\chi} (t)).$$

Since A is stable and $\chi ( 0 ) - \hat { \chi } ( 0 )$ is Gaussian (by (10a), (5e)), $\chi ( t ) - \hat { \chi } ( t )$ converges to zero for any initial condition and its second moment also converges to zero exponentially as $t \to \infty$ .

Step 4: The objective value of $( w , \hat { w } )$ for the problem (5) is the same as the objective value of Σ for the problem (6).
