# I. INTRODUCTION AND PROBLEM STATEMENT

D ISTRIBUTIONALLY robust control (DRC) addressescontrol problems where the probability distributions governing system disturbances are not precisely known. Unlike classical robust control, which considers worst-case deterministic uncertainties, DRC optimizes performance against the worst-case probability distribution within an ambiguity set, making it particularly suited for data-driven scenarios where distributional information can be estimated from samples. The goal of this article is to showcase the fundamental relations between DRC, robust $H _ { 2 }$ control, and moment relaxations for linear quadratic control problems. As our main result, we show that linear quadratic DRC problems are specific instances of robust $H _ { 2 }$ control problems. Thus, efficient LMI-synthesis methods are applicable for these problems. At the same time, this result strengthens the foundation of classical robust control theory providing yet another problem that can be embedded into this framework.

Concretely, we study a (generalized) plant of the form

$$
\left( \begin{array}{c} x (t + 1) \\ z (t) \\ y (t) \end{array} \right) = \left( \begin{array}{c c c} A & B _ {w} & B _ {u} \\ C _ {z} & D _ {z w} & D _ {z u} \\ C _ {y} & D _ {y w} & 0 \end{array} \right) \left( \begin{array}{c} x (t) \\ w (t) \\ u (t) \end{array} \right) \tag {1}
$$

that is in feedback with a controller given by

$$
\binom {x _ {c} (t + 1)} {u (t)} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} A _ {c c} & B _ {c c} \\ C _ {c c} & D _ {c c} \end{array} \right) \binom {x _ {c} (t)} {y (t)}. \tag {2}
$$

Funded by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germany’s Excellence Strategy - EXC 2075 – 390740016. We acknowledge the support by the Stuttgart Center for Simulation Science (SimTech).

Dennis Gramlich and Christian Ebenbauer are with the Chair of Intelligent Control Systems, RWTH Aachen University, 52074 Aachen, Germany {dennis.gramlich, christian.ebenbauer} @ic.rwth-aachen.de
