# 2.3 Direct vs. indirect data-driven control

For LTI systems with noise-free data, model-based control (2) and DeePC (6) are equivalent (see [17, Theorem $5 . 1 ] )$ , thanks to the fundamental lemma. In this case, the Hankel matrix $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ in (5b), also referred to as the trajectory matrix (since each of its columns represents a valid system trajectory), serves as a non-parametric model.

However, data collected from practical systems is rarely noise-free. In particular, the offline data $u _ { \mathrm { d } } , y _ { \mathrm { d } }$ and the resulting trajectory library $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ in (5b) may be corrupted by 1) “variance” noises that enter the process dynamics and output measurement, 2) and $\bar { \cdot 6 7 } \mathrm { b i a s } ^ { \prime \prime }$ errors induced by nonlinear dynamics beyond LTI [1]. To address these issues, various regularization and data preprocessing techniques have been proposed to extend the basic DeePC (6). These include $\bar { l _ { 1 } } / \bar { l _ { 2 } }$ regularization [1], γ-DDPC [39], low-rank approximation [44], singular-value decomposition [34]. While some works [1, 34, 39, 46] have explored the relationship among different schemes, most of them are carried out on a case-by-case basis. One notable exception is [1], which employs a principled bi-level optimization framework to investigate the interplay between direct and indirect data-driven control.

We here adopt the same bi-level optimization principle as [1] to systematically explore the effects of regularization in direct data-driven predictive control (DDPC). In particular, we consider a nested bi-level DDPC,

$$
\min_{\substack{g,\sigma_{y}\in \Gamma ,\\ u\in \mathcal{U},y\in \mathcal{Y}}}\quad \| y\|_{Q}^{2} + \| u\|_{R}^{2} + \lambda_{y}\| \sigma_{y}\|_{2}^{2}
$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o } \quad H ^ { * } g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) ,$ (7a)

$$\text { where } \quad H ^ {*} \in \arg \min _ {H \in \mathcal {S}} J _ {\mathrm{id}} (H, H _ {\mathrm{d}}). \tag {7b}$$
