The reformulations so far preserved the exactness of the $H _ { 2 }$ norm condition, but they are impractical, since they depend on the unknown $\Delta$ . To obtain a more practical formulation, we can use the fact that (18) is negative definite if (⋆) is negative definite. The matrix (⋆) does not depend on $\Delta ,$ but it is not immediately clear whether moving from (18) to (⋆) preserves the exactness of the $H _ { 2 }$ norm condition.

Then, we end up with the robust $H _ { 2 }$ analysis problem

$$\underset {\lambda \geq 0, Q, \mathcal {P} > 0} {\text { minimize }} \quad \operatorname{tr} \left(Q \Sigma_ {\mathrm{nom}}\right) + \lambda \gamma^ {2} \tag {19a}\text { s.t. } \quad \mathcal {A} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} \mathcal {A} - \mathcal {P} + \mathcal {C} ^ {\top} \mathcal {C} < 0, \tag {19b}
\left( \begin{array}{c c} \mathcal {B} & 0 \\ \mathcal {D} & 0 \\ I & 0 \\ 0 & I \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} \left( \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathcal {P} & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & I & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & - \lambda I & \lambda I \\ 0 & 0 & \lambda I & - Q - \lambda I \end{array} \right) \left( \begin{array}{c c} \mathcal {B} & 0 \\ \mathcal {D} & 0 \\ I & 0 \\ 0 & I \end{array} \right) <   0, \tag {19c}
$$

which is the same as the distributionally robust analysis problem (13). Since (19) and (13) are identical, we do not need to convexify (19) in the controller parameters, which we have already done for (13) in Section VI.

Corollary 7.2 (Transport plans and exactness of (19)):

Assume that A is stable and $\Sigma _ { \mathrm { n o m } } \succ 0$ . Then, the robust $H _ { 2 }$ analysis problem (19) is exact in the sense that there exists a worst-case uncertainty $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { w } \times n _ { w } }$ with $\Vert ( I - \Delta ) \Sigma _ { \mathrm { n o m } } ^ { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \Vert _ { F } \leq \gamma$ such that the squared Σnom-weighted $H _ { 2 }$ norm of the system (16) is equal to the optimal value of (19). This worstcase uncertainty corresponds to the transport plan of the Wasserstein distance in 3) of Theorem 4.2 between $\mathbb { P } _ { \mathrm { n o m } }$ and Pw(t). $\mathbb { P } _ { w ( t ) }$

Proof: Step 1: Equivalence of optimization problems.

By direct comparison of constraints and objectives, the robust $H _ { 2 }$ analysis problem (19) is identical to the distributionally robust analysis problem (13). Therefore, by Theorem 5.6, both problems are equivalent to the original DRC problem (4).

Step 2: Construction of a worst-case disturbance.
