$$f (x) + \lambda_ {g} ^ {*} (\| g \| _ {1} - \alpha_ {\mathrm{c}}) + (\mu^ {*}) ^ {\top} (H _ {\mathrm{d}} g - A x - b).$$

Dropping the constant term $- \lambda _ { g } ^ { * } \alpha _ { \mathrm { c } }$ , we conclude that $( x ^ { * } , g ^ { * } )$ also minimizes $\begin{array} { r } { f (  { \boldsymbol { { x } } } ) + \bar { \lambda _ { q } ^ { * } } \| \boldsymbol { { g } } \| _ { 1 } + ( \mu ^ { * } ) ^ { \top } ( H _ { \mathrm { d } } \boldsymbol { { g } } \mathrm { ~ - ~ } } \end{array}$ $A x - b )$ . Since $( x ^ { * } , g ^ { * } )$ is feasible for (33), it follows that $( x ^ { * } , g ^ { * } )$ is optimal for (33). As $( x ^ { * } , \dot { g } ^ { * } )$ is an arbitrary primal optimal solution of (32), the result follows.

We note that the converse implication generally does not hold in Proposition 4: an optimal solution of (33) need not be feasible, and hence need not be optimal, for (32). Propositions 3 and 4 imply that (33) is a relaxation of (30) with respect to the function $\| y \| _ { Q } ^ { 2 } + \| u \| _ { R } ^ { 2 } +$ $\lambda _ { y } \| \sigma _ { y } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ under mild conditions.

Theorem 4 Consider the bi-level problem (30) and the single-level problem (33). Suppose $\bar { Q } \succ 0 , R \succ 0 , \lambda _ { y } > 0$ , and Γ, U, and $\mathcal { V }$ are convex sets. Let $\lambda _ { q } ^ { * } ~ \geq ~ 0$ be the penalty parameter given by Proposition 4. Then, for any $\bar { 0 } \leq \lambda _ { g } \leq \lambda _ { g } ^ { * }$ , problem (33) is a convex relaxation of (30) with respect to the function $f ( \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) : = \| y \| _ { Q } ^ { 2 } + \| u \| _ { R } ^ { 2 } +$ $\lambda _ { y } \| \sigma _ { y } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ , in the following sense:

(1) (33) is a convex optimization problem;   
(2) any feasible $( \sigma _ { y } , u , y )$ for (30) is feasible to (33);   
(3) for any optimal solution $\left( g ^ { \ast } , \sigma _ { y } ^ { \ast } , u ^ { \ast } , y ^ { \ast } \right) ~ o f ~ \left( 3 3 \right)$ ,   
$f ( \sigma _ { y } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } )$ is smaller than the optimal value of (30).

A similar statement as Theorem 4 appears in [1, Theorem 4.8]. However, we emphasize that the relaxation is only true with respect to the function $\| y \| _ { Q } ^ { 2 } + \| u \| _ { R } ^ { 2 } +$ $\lambda _ { y } \| \sigma _ { y } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ under an upper bound for the regularizing parameter $\lambda _ { g } ,$ which is treated differently in [1]. The reason is that while the optimal solution of (33) is the same as (32), their objective functions are different, which generally leads to different optimal values.
