# II. RELATED WORK

Distributionally robust control (DRC) is a modern umbrella term used in control theory to describe the control of dynamic systems under disturbance inputs whose distributions are uncertain. The goal is to find controllers that perform optimally under the worst-case disturbance distributions within an ambiguity set. In the past (before the term DRC was coined), this ambiguity set has, e.g., been described by constraints on the autocorrelation function of the disturbance distribution [7], [8]; a problem which has been motivated as a robust version of $H _ { 2 }$ optimal control. In [9], the author shows that optimal output feedback synthesis subject to worst-case disturbances with restricted autocorrelation function can be cast as an infinite dimensional convex optimization problem (with an auxiliary model matching problem). Subsequently, it has been shown in [22] that DRC synthesis can be cast as a small sized SDP for restrictions on a autocorrelation sequence up to a finite lag.

The label DRC emerged later as an analog to distributionally robust optimization (DRO). The latter studies optimization problems, where problem parameters are random variables whose distributions are assumed to lie within an ambiguity set, which is commonly defined using probability metrics [19], [20] or the first two moments [3]. Wasserstein-based ambiguity sets are popular in this context due to favorable out-of-sample performance [19] and the ability to incorporate prior knowledge through nominal distributions.
