Table 1 lists the realized control costs at noise level $\sigma = 0 . 1$ for different pre-collected trajectory lengths and control approaches. We also report their percentage increases relative to the ground-truth cost computed with noise-free data from (6). The results show a clear performance ordering: $\mathtt { L } \mathrm { - D D P C } > \mathtt { S P C } > \mathtt { C } \mathrm { - D D P C } > \mathtt { A } \mathrm { - D D P C } >$ System ID. For the LTI system with noisy data, the inner problem in (7) enforces LTI structure in the datadriven representation, which in turn improves noise rejection in the outer predictive control problem (7). Consequently, methods that impose more constraints on the inner problem tend to yield more structured representations and better performance. Notably, the increase in realized control cost for A-DDPC is approximately 7%, significantly outperforming the other DDPC variants.

Fig. 5 shows typical trajectories for all methods under different noise levels. In this case, the open-loop trajectories for all approaches remain close to the optimal trajectory obtained by MPC with the accurate system model up to 1 s. After that, L-DDPC, SPC and C-DDPC exhibit larger oscillations and deviations from the optimal trajectory, whereas the proposed A-DDPC and the sequential system identification and control are closer to the optimal one with reduced oscillations. Furthermore, across different noise levels, L-DDPC, SPC and C-DDPC show relatively large variability while A-DDPC and the system identification approach are less sensitive to noise.
