$$
\min_{\substack{g,\sigma_{y}\in \Gamma ,\\ u\in \mathcal{U},y\in \mathcal{Y}}}\quad \| y\|_{Q}^{2} + \| u\|_{R}^{2} + \lambda_{y}\| \sigma_{y}\|_{2}^{2}
$$

$\begin{array} { r l } { \mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } } & { { } H _ { \mathrm { d } } g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) , } \end{array}$ (22a)

$$\left\| \left(I - \Pi_ {1}\right) g \right\| _ {2} = 0, \tag {22b}$$

where the matrix $\Pi _ { 1 }$ is defined in (20).

Proposition 1 Suppose $Q \succ 0 , R \succ 0 , \lambda _ { y } > 0$ and that Γ, U, and Y are convex sets. Fix any data matrix $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ in (5b). Then, the bi-level problem (19) has the same optimal value as the single-level problems (21) and (22). Moreover, all three problems admit the same unique optimal solution $u ^ { * } , y ^ { * }$ and $\sigma _ { y } ^ { * }$ .

The proof follows a similar idea in [2], and we postpone it to Appendix B.2. The key idea is to show that feasible regions for decision variables $u , y , \sigma _ { y }$ are the same for (19), (21), and (22). Note that the data matrix $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ in Proposition 1 can be arbitrary and may come from a nonlinear system.

It is now clear that (22) is in the form of (17) (we give a detailed construction in Appendix B.4). Thus, applying Theorem 1 leads to the following result.

Corollary 1 Suppose $Q \succ 0 , R \succ 0 , \lambda _ { y } > 0$ and Γ, U , and $\mathcal { V }$ are convex sets. Consider the regularized problem

$$
\min_ {\substack {g, \sigma_ {y} \in \Gamma , \\ u \in \mathcal {U}, y \in \mathcal {Y}}} \| u \| _ {R} ^ {2} + \| y \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \lambda_ {y} \| \sigma_ {y} \| _ {2} ^ {2} \tag{23}
+ \lambda_ {g} \| (I - \Pi_ {1}) g \| _ {2}$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o } \quad H _ { \mathrm { d } } g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) .$

For any $\lambda _ { g } \geq 0 _ { ; }$ , it is a convex relaxation of (22). If the optimal solution $( \sigma _ { y } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } )$ to (22) is an interior point $o f \Gamma \times \mathcal { U } \times \mathcal { Y }$ , then there exists ${ \lambda } _ { g } ^ { * } > 0$ such that (22) and (23) are equivalent for all $\lambda _ { g } > \bar { \lambda } _ { q } ^ { * }$ . In other words, they have the same optimal cost value and optimal solution.

We call (23) Linearity-based DDPC (L-DDPC). Combining Corollary 1 with Proposition 1 leads to the result below.
