# C. Linear algebra in Kalman filter

In this section, we formalize an intermediate stage inserted between the prediction and update steps. Its purpose is to derive the gravity vector from the available input data and, in turn, to substitute this vector for the raw accelerometer measurements in the update step of the MEKF.

Given the IMU measurements $( \omega , \mathbf { A } , \mathbf { M } , \vec { n } )$ , one can decompose these measurements as $\boldsymbol { m } = ( \omega , \mathbf { A } _ { q } ^ { R } + \mathbf { A } _ { \mathrm { e x t } } ^ { R } , \mathbf { M } , \vec { n } )$ where $\mathbf { A } _ { g }$ is the rotation of the gravity vector.

The idea that we use is that in that context, there exists a rotation R such that

$$m = (\omega , R \cdot \vec {g} + R \cdot \mathbf {A} _ {\mathrm{ext}} ^ {G}, R \cdot \vec {b}, \vec {n}).$$

There is a finite number of rotation R such that, given a position p and a speed s satisfying $\mathbf { p } \cdot { \vec { n } } = 0$ (the position is on the surface), such that

$$\left(\mathbf {p} + \mathbf {s} \cdot d t - \vec {g} \cdot (d t) ^ {2} + R ^ {- 1} \cdot \mathbf {A}\right) \cdot \vec {n} = 0$$

and

$$R ^ {- 1} \mathbf {M} = \vec {b}.$$

The reason of the finite number of rotations comes from the fact that $\vec { b } \neq \vec { n }$ (the magnetic field not colinear to the normal, which can be assumed without loss of generality) and from the fact that the logarithm of the rotation such that $R ^ { - 1 } \mathbf { M } = \Vec { b }$ are constrained to an ellipse in the plan equidistant to M and ⃗b. If $\mathbf { M } = \Vec { b } ,$ the possible logarithms are given by the rotation of axis ⃗b, which form a line.

Since any rotation R can be decomposed as the product of $R _ { \vec { b } }$ (rotation leaving ⃗b invariant) and $R ( { \vec { b } }  \mathbf { M } )$ (rotation sending ⃗b to M), we do not lose generality by considering the previous singular case. Assuming that ${ \vec { b } } \neq { \vec { n } } ,$ one can use the first condition to compute 2 intersections with the plan orthogonal to ⃗n. In conclusion, one can use the two conditions to compute a unique rotation, closest to the prediction step in MEKF. From this rotation, one deduce the measurements $( \omega , \mathbf { A } _ { g } ^ { R } , \mathbf { M } , \vec { n } )$ .
