Comparison of direct/indirect methods. We compare the realized control costs for the indirect system ID approach and different DDPC variants on systems with varying degrees of nonlinearity. Model orders are chosen to be 8 and 4 for A-DDPC in Algorithm 1 and N4SID, respectively, as they yield relatively satisfactory performance among various orders from testing. Similar to Section 6.1, we average the realized control costs over 100 pre-collected trajectories. We note that the identified model from N4SID is often ill-conditioned when the nonlinearity is high, which caused numerical issues in solving (2) in some of our experiments. We discard these ill-conditioned solutions when computing the average performance for the indirect system ID approach. Both direct and indirect approaches perform well when the nonlinearity is low $( i . e . , \epsilon \in [ 0 . \bar { 8 } , 1 ] )$ , as shown in Fig. 6. However, the cost for the indirect method significantly increases with higher nonlinearity, while the performance of direct methods remains relatively consistent. The superior performance of direct data-driven methods is consistent with experimental observations from [1]. The indirect system ID method projects the noisy data on a structured linear model parameterized by the matrices (A, B, C, D) (see Remark 4), which induces “bias” error due to selecting a wrong model class. On the other hand, the complexity of the LTI system is regularized but not specified in direct methods, such as L-DDPC and C-DDPC, where suitable choices of the weighting parameters provide more flexibility. For the A-DDPC, the model order n in (34a) is tunable and can be chosen larger than the state dimension, and it does not require identification of an explicit parametric LTI model, which gives an improved capacity to capture the richer behavior of the nonlinear system. These features lead to superior performance of L-DDPC, C-DDPC, and A-DDPC for controlling nonlinear systems in our experiments.
