# 3.4. Stability constraints for LSTM

Under autonomous state, the LSTM network can be described with the following set of equations:

$$\mathbf {i} _ {t} = \sigma (\mathbf {U} _ {i} \mathbf {h} _ {t - 1} + \mathbf {C} _ {i} \mathbf {p} _ {t} + \mathbf {b} _ {i}) \tag {22}\mathbf {f} _ {t} = \sigma (\mathbf {U} _ {f} \mathbf {h} _ {t - 1} + \mathbf {C} _ {f} \mathbf {p} _ {t} + \mathbf {b} _ {f}) \tag {23}\mathbf {g} _ {t} = \phi (\mathbf {U} _ {g} \mathbf {h} _ {t - 1} + \mathbf {C} _ {g} \mathbf {p} _ {t} + \mathbf {b} _ {g}) \tag {24}\mathbf {o} _ {t} = \sigma \left(\mathbf {U} _ {o} \mathbf {h} _ {t - 1} + \mathbf {C} _ {o} \mathbf {p} _ {t} + \mathbf {b} _ {o}\right) \tag {25}\mathbf {c} _ {t} = \mathbf {f} _ {t} \odot \mathbf {c} _ {t - 1} + \mathbf {i} _ {t} \odot \mathbf {g} _ {t} \tag {26}\mathbf {h} _ {t} = \mathbf {o} _ {t} \odot \phi (\mathbf {c} _ {t}) \tag {27}$$

For this system to be asymptotically stable, Eq. (2) should hold for this system; that is, we want

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \| \mathbf {h} _ {\mathbf {t}} \| = \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \| \mathbf {o} _ {t} \odot \phi (\mathbf {c} _ {\mathbf {t}}) \| = 0. \tag {28}$$

Eq. (28) holds for arbitrary values of the output gate ot if

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \mathbf {c} _ {t} \| = \lim _ {t \to \infty} \| \mathbf {f} _ {t} \odot \mathbf {c} _ {t - 1} + \mathbf {i} _ {t} \odot \mathbf {g} _ {t} \| = 0. \tag {29}$$

Next, we can derive constraints for the model parameters that satisfy Eq. (29) similarly as for the GRU. If we consider the model when the forget gate ft is fully closed, we get the following constraints:

$$\mathbf {C} _ {g} = O, \quad \mathbf {b} _ {g} = \mathbf {0}, \quad \| \mathbf {U} _ {g} \| _ {2} < 1. \tag {30}$$

Now, when the restrictions of Eq. (30) apply, we have asymptotic stability when ft is fully closed. Next we will consider the case of arbitrary input and forget gates, it and ft.

We start by considering the norm of the cell state at time step t + 1 as defined in Eq. (26):

$$\left\| \mathbf {c} _ {t + 1} \right\| = \left\| \mathbf {f} _ {t + 1} \odot \mathbf {c} _ {t} + \mathbf {i} _ {t + 1} \odot \mathbf {g} _ {t + 1} \right\|. \tag {31}$$

Since the spectral norm of a matrix determines the maximum amount by which a matrix lengthens a vector, with the restriction of Eq. (30), we have an upper bound for Eq. (31):
