# 6 Numerical experiments

We compare the numerical performance 2 for the DDPC variants in Sections 4 and $5 ,$ including: 1) L-DDPC (23), 2) C-DDPC (29) and 3) A-DDPC (38). We also include results from the Equality-form SPC (SPC) in (21) and the indirect DDPC using system identification for comparison. In particular, we used the N4SID [55] for the system ID. We do not consider (33) individually, as an l1-norm regularizer is added for all DDPC variants.

We perform two sets of experiments in this section: 1) an LTI system with noisy measurement [18] $( ^ { 6 6 } \mathrm { v a r i a n c e } ^ { 3 } )$ error) and 2) another nonlinear system with noise-free measurement [1] (“bias” error). An additional example of controlling a two-wheeled robot using DDPC variants is provided in Appendix C. We see that the indirect method performs better on the non-deterministic LTI system under the “variance” error, while the direct DDPC variants have superior performance on the nonlinear system under the “bias” error. This finding is consistent with [1]. Furthermore, our results show the superior performance of A-DDPC in both systems. For hyperparameter selection, we perform a grid search for $\lambda _ { g }$ and $\lambda _ { 1 }$ over a broad range for the non-deterministic LTI system: we use the realized cost as the evaluation metric and choose a region that yields relatively good performance. The selected parameters are further tuned in the nonlinear example to enhance numerical stability.
