Since the joint moment matrix of ${ \hat { \chi } } ( t ) , w ( t ) , { \hat { w } } ( t )$ equals $\gamma$ and $\chi ( t ) - \hat { \chi } ( t )$ and its second moment converge to zero exponentially as $t ~  ~ \infty$ , the joint moment matrix of $\chi ( t ) , w ( t ) , \hat { w } ( t )$ converges to Σ exponentially. In this case, the asymptotic averaged cost (5a) is

$$
\frac {1}{T} \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} \mathbb {E} \left\| z (t) \right\| ^ {2} = \operatorname{tr} \left(\left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {D} & 0 \end{array} \right) \Sigma (T) \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {D} & 0 \end{array} \right) ^ {\intercal}\right)

\stackrel {T \to \infty} {=} \operatorname{tr} \left(\left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {D} & 0 \end{array} \right) \Sigma \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {D} & 0 \end{array} \right) ^ {\top}\right).
$$

With Proposition 5.2 and Proposition 5.3, we can now prove the equivalence between (5) and (6).

Theorem 5.4: Let A be stable. Then, the optimization problems (5) and (6) are feasible and their optimal values coincide.

Proof: We first point out that given a solution $\Sigma _ { \chi \chi }$ to the Lyapunov equation $\Sigma _ { \chi \chi } \ = \ \bar { A \Sigma _ { \chi \chi } } \bar { A ^ { \intercal } } + \mathcal { B } \Sigma _ { \mathrm { n o m } } \mathcal { B ^ { \intercal } } , \ \tilde { \Sigma } \ =$ diag $\left( \Sigma _ { \chi \chi } , \left( \begin{array} { c c } { { \Sigma _ { \mathrm { { n o m } } } } } & { { \Sigma _ { \mathrm { { n o m } } } } } \\ { { \Sigma _ { \mathrm { { n o m } } } } } & { { \Sigma _ { \mathrm { { n o m } } } } } \end{array} \right) \right)$ Σχχ, ⎛Σnom Σnom is a feasible candidate for (6).

Moreover, if A is stable, then $w = \hat { w }$ with $\hat { w } ( t ) \sim \mathbb { P } _ { \mathrm { n o m } }$ i.i.d. for all $t \in  { \mathbb { N } } _ { 0 }$ is a feasible candidate for (5).

Next, if $( \chi , w , \hat { w } )$ is a feasible candidate for (5), then, by Proposition 5.2, every member of the sequence $\Sigma ( T )$ of averaged moments is bounded from above by a stationary moment matrix Σ that satisfies (6b) to (6e). Since the stochastic process $( \chi , w , \hat { w } )$ is an arbitrary feasible candidate of (5), this implies that the optimal value of (6) is larger than or equal to the optimal value of (5).
