In this paper, we adopt a bi-level optimization framework, similar to [1]. We aim to study the interplay between direct and indirect data-driven control for systems beyond LTI settings, especially for the effect of regularizers. In this formulation, data preprocessing is modeled as an inner optimization problem (identification), while predictive control is formulated as an outer optimization problem (online control). Figure 1 illustrates the overall process. Our main technical contributions are as follows. First, we highlight the role of the Hankel trajectory library H as a non-parametric model within the bilevel framework. This choice not only facilitates the incorporation of common system ID constraints (e.g., SPC [43], low-rank approximation [44], and causal models [45]) into the inner problem, but also enables the use of penalty methods to reduce the bi-level formulation to a single-level problem (Theorem 1). Second, under this bi-level framework, we establish three regularized DDPC formulations as convex relaxations of their corresponding bi-level optimization problems (Theorems 2, 3, 4). In each case, the explicit projection of data onto LTI identification constraints is replaced with suitable regularizations that account for implicit identification. While this perspective aligns with [1], we refine the analysis by clarifying conceptual inaccuracies, providing elementary self-contained proofs, and introducing a new causality-based regularizer (Theorem 3). Finally, all three regularized DDPC formulations only implicitly enforce a subset of system ID constraints while neglecting others. To address this limitation, we propose an approximation-based variant of DDPC (A-DDPC), which approximately solves the inner identification problem with all system ID constraints via an iterative algorithm. This leads to a refined data-driven representation that approximately captures linearity, causality, and the dominant trajectory space. Numerical experiments show that A-DDPC outperforms existing regularized DDPC approaches in reducing both bias and variance errors.
