# 4.1. Datasets

The training data was gathered from three devices using a MOTU M4 audio interface: ProCo Rat (RAT), Darkglass DFZ (DFZ), and Boss CS-3 (CS-3). For each device, we recorded a training and evaluation set. The datasets used samples taken from 2 hours of electric and bass guitar playing as the input audio. We had separate 2 hour-long audio files and used different electric and bass guitars for the training and evaluation sets. Additionally, we used [18] (MAR-SHALL) as the fourth dataset to verify that the results are not dependent on our datasets. All audio was sampled at 48 kHz.

The RAT dataset consists of 1024 training and 128 evaluation samples. Each sample has a different combination of controls and consists of a random one second segment taken from the input audio. The highly nonlinear behavior of this device and its controls required a denser sampling of the controls than the other datasets (for the models to smoothly interpolate between all control values). All three controls of the device — distortion, filter, and level — were sampled.

The DFZ dataset has 288 training and 288 evaluation samples. The controls were sampled at their minimum, middle, and maximum positions. For each position, 32 different samples were recorded. The samples consisted of one second of silence followed by a random one second segment from the input audio file, followed by another one second of silence. Only two controls were sampled — duality and filter — and only at three positions since the models could interpolate between them.

The CS-3 dataset has 352 training and 352 evaluation samples. Only the attack control was sampled, which controls the attack and release time of the pedals’ dynamic range compression. The samples were otherwise recorded similarly as in the DFZ dataset.

The MARSHALL dataset uses the original dataset from [18] split into three second samples for more efficient parallelism during training.

Finally, all the datasets were normalized before training such that all the samples were normalized using the maximum absolute sample value in the training set. Both the input and target values were normalized. All the datasets (including the split and normalized MARSHALL dataset) and configuration files used in the training are available on Zenodo [19].
