$$
\begin{array}{l} \sup _ {\Sigma \succeq 0} \inf _ {\lambda \geq 0, Q, \mathcal {P}} \operatorname{tr} \left(\left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {D} & 0 \end{array} \right) \Sigma \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {D} & 0 \end{array} \right) ^ {\top}\right) \\ + \operatorname{tr} (\mathcal {P} \left(\left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} & \mathcal {B} & 0 \end{array} \right) \Sigma \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} & \mathcal {B} & 0 \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} - \Sigma_ {\chi \chi}\right)) \\ + \lambda \gamma^ {2} - \lambda \operatorname{tr} \left(\left( \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & I & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & I \end{array} \right) \Sigma \left( \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & I & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & I \end{array} \right) ^ {\top} \left( \begin{array}{c c} I & - I \\ - I & I \end{array} \right)\right) \\ + \operatorname{tr} \left(Q \left(\Sigma_ {\text { nom }} - \left( \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & 0 & I \end{array} \right) \Sigma \left( \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & 0 & I \end{array} \right) ^ {\top}\right)\right). \\ \end{array}
$$

Here, we see that if any of the constraints (6b), (6c), or (6d) are violated, then ${ \mathcal { P } } , \ \lambda , \ \mathrm { o r } \ Q$ can be chosen such that the objective value is unbounded from below. On the other hand, if (6b), (6c), and (6d) hold, then optimal choices for $\mathcal { P } , \lambda ,$ , and Q are given by zero.

Consequently, (6) is equivalent to the dual of (12). By weak duality, the optimal value of (6) is smaller than or equal to the optimal value of (12).

Step 2: Strong duality and feasibility.

To show that strong duality holds, we verify Slater’s condition by proving that (12) and $\lambda \geq 0$ are strictly feasible.

It helps to rewrite the constraint (12b) as

$$
\left( \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} \mathcal {A} - \mathcal {P} + \mathcal {C} ^ {\top} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {A} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} \mathcal {B} + \mathcal {C} ^ {\top} \mathcal {D} & 0 \\ \mathcal {B} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} \mathcal {A} + \mathcal {D} ^ {\top} \mathcal {C} & \mathcal {B} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} \mathcal {B} + \mathcal {D} ^ {\top} \mathcal {D} - \lambda I & \lambda I \\ 0 & \lambda I & - \lambda I - Q \end{array} \right) <   0.
$$

Then, we choose $\mathcal { P }$ as the solution to the Lyapunov equation

$$\mathcal {A} ^ {\top} \mathcal {P} \mathcal {A} - \mathcal {P} + \mathcal {C} ^ {\top} \mathcal {C} = - I.$$

Subsequently pick λ large enough such that the left upper $2 \times 2$ block of (12b) above is negative definite, and finally make Q large enough such that the whole matrix is negative definite.
