# B. Real Data

We conducted experiments under several scenarios using different sensor configurations, including odometry and IMU sensors. The main observation is that the Rev-MEKF performs well under idealized conditions. However, its usability in realworld scenarios is affected by several factors:

• noise in the accelerometer and magnetometer measurements;   
• errors in the computation of the gravity and magnetic field vectors.

As a result, the average distance between the finite set of rotations corresponding to the intersection of the acceleration vector with the surface (as defined in the previous section) is smaller than the noise induced by these factors. Consequently, distinguishing between two intersection points becomes impossible.

This average distance increases when the acceleration deviates from the gravity vector, i.e., during strong external accelerations, which correspond to situations where the MEKF performs poorly.

Therefore, Rev-MEKF must be adapted to apply linearalgebra-based corrections at appropriate instances. To this end, we introduce a detection step that determines when to switch between MEKF and Rev-MEKF, based on a trade-off between sensor noise and the type of motion. During static phases with noisy sensors, Rev-MEKF may perform worse than MEKF because the rotation angle α, which projects an acceleration onto its closest point on the plane, can become large due to errors in the gravity vector and sensor noise. To mitigate this issue, we identify moments when the angle predicted by the Prediction step is closer to the angle returned by Rev-MEKF than to the angle corresponding to the raw accelerometer inclination. The procedure is detailed as follows:

• To avoid errors due to global magnetic field computation, use

$$q ^ {- 1} * [ 0, 0, 1, 0 ] * q$$

instead of the raw magnetometer data, where $q$ is the predicted quaternion.

• By default, minimize the z coordinate of the rotated acceleration, which is valid in most static phases.   
• If the vector rotated in the linear algebra step never intersects the plane defined by the normal, or if the predicted rotation does not belong to the set of rotations that cross the plane, return the vector normally transmitted to MEKF.   
• If the distance of the predicted rotation to the closest intersection rotation is γ times smaller than the distance to the default rotation, return the vector normally returned by Rev-MEKF.
