Proof. Let $( g ^ { * } , \sigma _ { u } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } )$ be an optimal solution of (31), and define $b ^ { * } : = \mathbf { \check { H } } _ { \mathrm { l r } } ^ { * } g ^ { * }$ . Since Im $\prime H _ { \mathrm { l r } } ^ { * } ) \subseteq \mathrm { I m } ( H _ { \mathrm { d } } )$ , there exists some gˆ such that $H _ { \mathrm { d } } { \hat { g } } = b ^ { * }$ . Hence $( \hat { g } , \sigma _ { y } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } )$ is feasible for (32). Since the objective does not depend on g, it has the same objective value. Therefore, if $\alpha _ { \mathrm { { c } } } \geq$ ∥gˆ∥1, then $\left( \hat { g } , \sigma _ { y } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } \right)$ is feasible for (32), and we thus complete the proof. □

The constraint $\| g \| _ { 1 } \le \alpha _ { \mathrm { c } }$ can be moved to the objective function without changing the optimal solution of (32) (but not the optimal value). We have the following result.

Proposition 4 Let $Q \succ 0 , R \succ 0 , \lambda _ { y } > 0$ , and $\Gamma \times \mathcal { U } \times$ Y being convex. Suppose problem (32) satisfies Slater’s condition. Consider the regularized problem

$$\min _ {g, \sigma_ {y} \in \Gamma , u \in \mathcal {U}, y \in \mathcal {Y}} \| y \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \| u \| _ {R} ^ {2} + \lambda_ {y} \| \sigma_ {y} \| _ {2} ^ {2}+ \lambda_ {g} \| g \| _ {1} \tag {33}$$

subject to $H _ { \mathrm { d } } g = \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) .$

There exists a penalty parameter ${ \lambda } _ { g } ^ { * } \geq 0$ , such that any optimal solution $( \sigma _ { y } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } , g ^ { * } )$ of (32) is also an optimal solution of (33) $f o \bar { r } \lambda _ { g } = \lambda _ { g } ^ { * }$ .

Proof. To simplify notation, we let x $: = \mathrm { c o l } ( \sigma _ { y } , u , y ) , \mathcal { C } : =$ $\Gamma \times \mathcal { U } \times \mathcal { V }$ , and define $f ( x ) : = \| y \| _ { Q } ^ { 2 } + \| u \| _ { R } ^ { 2 } + \lambda _ { y } \| \sigma _ { y } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ . The equality constraint in (32) can be written as $H _ { \mathrm { d } } g - A x = b$ for some matrix A and vector b.

Then we rewrite (32) as

$$\min _ {x \in \mathcal {C}, g} f (x) \quad \text { subject to } \quad H _ {\mathrm{d}} g - A x = b, \quad \| g \| _ {1} \leq \alpha_ {\mathrm{c}}.$$

Strong duality holds for (32) by Slater’s condition. Let $( \lambda _ { g } ^ { * } , \mu ^ { * } )$ be a dual optimal solution, with ${ \lambda } _ { q } ^ { * } \geq 0$ . Take any primal optimal solution $( x ^ { * } , g ^ { * } )$ . By strong duality of (32), we know that $( x ^ { * } , g ^ { * } )$ minimizes the Lagrangian
