The inner problem (7b) processes the offline data $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ (see (5)), which may be collected from non-deterministic LTI systems or nonlinear systems, and then the resulting predictor is used in the outer online control (7a). This bi-level formulation, often referred to as indirect DDPC, is modular and consists of two well-separated components: an inner identification layer and an outer model-based predictive control layer. Before discussing its connections and distinctions with existing schemes, let us further clarify the notation in (7). In the outer problem, the term $\| y \| _ { Q } ^ { 2 } + \| u \| _ { R } ^ { 2 }$ denotes the usual one $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { k = t } ^ { t + N - 1 } \left( \lVert y ( k ) \rVert _ { Q } ^ { 2 } + \lVert u \dot { ( k ) } \rVert _ { R } ^ { 2 } \right) } \end{array}$ , and we have introduced a slack variable $\sigma _ { y }$ with constraint Γ and a regularization term $\| \sigma _ { y } \| _ { 2 } ^ { 2 }$ with $\lambda _ { y } \mathrm { ~ > ~ } 0$ . This ensures constraint feasibility despite noise, as used in [4, 19]. In the inner problem, $J _ { \mathrm { i d } } ( \cdot , \cdot )$ denotes a suitable loss function, and the constraint $\dot { H } \in \mathcal { S }$ enforces prior data structures. We will clarify our choice of $H \in { \bar { S } }$ in Section 3.

Remark 1 (Comparison with [1]) The bi-level DDPC (7) is inspired by the work $[ { 1 } ] ,$ which argues that “direct and regularized data-driven control can be derived as a convex relaxation of the indirect approach”. While adopting the same general framework, our work introduces two key distinctions. Conceptually, the bi-level DDPC (7) explicitly emphasizes the use of a non-parametric trajectory matrix as the predictive model, whereas [1] primarily considers a more general and abstract behavioral LTI setting in the inner problem. Technically, the analysis in [1] relies on arguments that require additional assumptions or clarifications, and some claims may not hold without these refinements. Also, the exact penalty arguments in [1] rely on [47, Proposition 2.4.3], which requires adaptation in the DDPC context. Inspired by the notion of partial calmness, our proof is transparent and self-contained. We will clarify these points in more detail in Sections 3 and 4.
