with Hˆ given in (27). For any $\lambda _ { g } \geq 0$ , it is a convex relaxation of (28). Further, if the optimal solution $( \sigma _ { y } ^ { * } , u ^ { * } , y ^ { * } )$ for (28) is an interior point of $\Gamma \times \mathcal { U } \times \mathcal { V }$ , then there exists $\lambda _ { g } ^ { * } > 0$ , such that, problem (29) has the same optimal value and optimal solutions as (28) for all $\lambda _ { g } > \lambda _ { g } ^ { * }$ .

We call (29) as Causality-based DDPC (C-DDPC). The new regularizer $\| Q _ { \mathrm { c } } g \| _ { 2 }$ penalizes both the violation of the row space constraint $( i . e . , Q _ { 3 } g )$ and the usage of noncasual information $( i . e . , Q ^ { * } g )$ .

Combining Proposition 2 and Corollary 2, we confirm that (29) is a relaxation of (24) under mild conditions.

Theorem 3 Consider the bi-level DDPC (24) and the single-level C-DDPC (29). Suppose $Q \succ 0 , \dot { R } \succ 0 , \lambda _ { y } > 0$ and $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ has full row rank with sufficiently large column number. Let Γ, U and Y be convex sets. For any nonnegative $\lambda _ { g } \ge 0 , ( 2 9 )$ is a convex relaxation of (24), that is:

(1) (29) is a convex optimization problem;   
(2) any feasible $\sigma _ { y } , u , y$ for (24) is feasible to (29);   
(3) the optimal value of (29) is smaller than or equal to that of (24).

Theorems 2 and 3 show the direct L-DDPC and C-DDPC are convex relaxations of the corresponding bi-level DDPC formulations. Since hard identification constraints are replaced by regularization terms, these direct approaches admit flexibility in terms of soft identification. Corollaries 1 and 2 developed from Theorem 1 provide theoretical conditions that characterize when the relaxed problems become equivalent to the original formulations.

Remark 3 (Comparison with [39]) To our knowledge, the single-level C-DDPC in (29) is new, and its relationship with the bi-level DDPC (24) has not been studied previously. The closest related work is [39], which introduces a causality-based regularizer within the γ-DDPC framework. The decision variable is reformulated and the regularization is imposed on $\gamma ,$ thereby losing the explicit trajectory library interpretation. Instead, our method (29) directly regularizes g, which retains the structure of the trajectory library. In particular, C-DDPC can then be naturally combined with the ∥g∥1 term, which implicitly performs trajectory selection, as we will discuss in Section 4.3.
