# 1. INTRODUCTION

In recent years, recurrent neural networks (RNNs), especially the long short-term memory (LSTM) [1] and gated recurrent unit (GRU) [2], have successfully been applied to black-box virtual analog applications [3, 4, 5]. When used for simulating devices that have controls for adjusting various processing-related parameters (such as filter cutoffs, resonances, amount of distortion, or time constants), these controls can be used to condition the model. There are several proposed methods for applying control conditioning to RNNs: the simplest solution is to concatenate the control values with the audio input [6]. Another general approach is to directly modulate either the parameters of the model or the hidden features using an additional hyper-network [7].

Most research on the topic has focused on the model output accuracy under static conditioning. However, virtual analog applications require varying the controls in real-time. This paper demonstrates that control-conditioned models can generate audible artifacts during time-varied conditioning. Another problem is that the output also usually has a small but detectable DC offset [8]. More troublesome is the fact that control conditioning has an effect on this DC offset, and the value will depend on the control values and cannot be removed using a constant offset.

In this paper, we present constraints for asymptotically stable recurrent neural networks and develop a procedure for measuring unwanted audio artifacts for time-varying controls. We also train models that satisfy the stability constraints and compare them with the original unconstrained models. Our results demonstrate that the proposed models can reduce or eliminate the unwanted audio artifacts and DC offset under zero input and time-varied conditioning.

The models were implemented into real-time audio plugins to enable further experimentation. The source code and models for these plugins are available at https://codeberg.org/rantlivelintkal

This paper makes the following contributions:

• Demonstrate that widely used control-conditional RNN models suffer from control-induced noise and stability issues.   
• Propose control-stabilized variants of LSTM and GRU.   
• Validate that the proposed models offer significant improvements in control noise levels and stability without a negative effect on overall fidelity.
