By the strong duality result in Theorem 5.6, an optimal $\Sigma$ to problem (6) exists (cmp. [17], page 217). Based on such an optimal Σ, the construction (10) in Proposition 5.3 yields a worst-case disturbance sequence w $\epsilon ~ { \mathcal { W } } _ { \mathrm { i n d } }$ that is optimal for problem (5). By the independence assumption defining ${ \mathcal { H } } _ { \mathrm { i n d } }$ , the random variables $w ( t )$ for $t ~ \in ~ \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ are independent. Moreover, by the explicit construction (10), the random variables $w ( t )$ are i.i.d. and Gaussian. Specifically, the independence assumption manifests itself in $2 \times w = 0$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { \mathcal { X } \mathcal { U } } = 0 } \end{array}$ as specified in (7). Consequently, the construction (10) yields random variables $w ( t ) = F _ { w d } d ( t )$ , where $d ( t ) \sim$ $\mathcal { N } ( 0 , I )$ is i.i.d..

Step 3: Existence of transport plans.

Since the Wasserstein constraint $\mathbb { W } ( \mathbb { P } _ { w ( t ) } , \mathbb { P } _ { \mathrm { n o m } } ) \leq \gamma$ holds and both distributions are Gaussian with zero means, with $\Sigma _ { \mathrm { n o m } } \succ 0$ by assumption, item 3) of Theorem 4.2 implies the existence of random variables $w ( t ) \sim \mathbb { P } _ { w ( t ) }$ and $\hat { w } ( t ) \sim \mathbb { P } _ { \mathrm { n o m } }$ and an optimal linear transport plan $w ( t ) = \Delta \hat { w } ( t )$ . This transport plan satisfies $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { w } \times n _ { w } }$ $\| ( I - \Delta ) \Sigma _ { \mathrm { n o m } } ^ { 1 / 2 } \| _ { F } \leq$ such that $\gamma$ and does not depend on t, since the marginal distributions of w are i.i.d.. Consequently, there exists a $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { w } \times n _ { w } }$ such that the squared $\scriptstyle \sum _ { \mathrm { n o m } ^ { - } } \mathrm { w e i g h t e c }$ $H _ { 2 }$ norm of the system (16), which equals the objective value of problem (5) under the optimal disturbance sequence $\boldsymbol { w } = \{ \Delta \boldsymbol { \hat { w } } ( 0 ) , \Delta \boldsymbol { \hat { w } } ( 1 ) , \dots \}$ , achieves the optimal value of (19).

It is worth noting that Corollary 7.2 does not only establish the equivalence of the distributionally robust analysis problem (13) and the robust $H _ { 2 }$ analysis problem (19), but also shows that the latter is exact in the sense that there exists a worst-case disturbance that achieves the supremum of the $\scriptstyle \sum _ { \mathrm { n o m } }$ -weighted $H _ { 2 }$ norm.
