# 2.1 LTI systems and model predictive control

Consider a discrete-time LTI system:

$$\bar {x} (k + 1) = A \bar {x} (k) + B \bar {u} (k), \tag {1}\bar {y} (k) = C \bar {x} (k) + D \bar {u} (k),$$

where the state, input, output at time k are $\bar { \boldsymbol { x } } ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , $\bar { u } ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , and $\bar { y } ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ , respectively. Throughout this paper, we assume that $( A , B )$ is controllable and $( A , C )$ is observable. The lag of the LTI system (1) is defined as the minimum integer l ∈ N such that its observability matrix col $( C , C A , \dots , C A ^ { l - 1 } )$ has full column rank n. It is known that $l \leq n$ when $( A , C )$ is observable.

Given a desired reference trajectory $y _ { \mathrm { r } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p N }$ with horizon $N > 0$ , input constraint set $\mathcal { U } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , output constraint set $\mathcal { V } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ , we aim to design control inputs such that the system output tracks the reference trajectory. In model predictive control (MPC), this is achieved, at time t, by solving the receding horizon predictive control

$$\min _ {x, u, y} \sum_ {k = t} ^ {t + N - 1} \left(\| y (k) - y _ {\mathrm{r}} (k) \| _ {Q} ^ {2} + \| u (k) \| _ {R} ^ {2}\right)$$

${ \mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } } x ( k + 1 ) = A x ( k ) + B u ( k ) ,$ (2a)

$$y (k) = C x (k) + D u (k), \tag {2b}x (t) = x _ {t}, \tag {2c}u (k) \in \mathcal {U}, y (k) \in \mathcal {Y}, k = t, \dots , t + N - 1, \tag {2d}$$

where $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the initial state at time $t , x ( k ) , u ( k )$ and $y ( k )$ denote the predicted state, input, and output at time $k ,$ and R and Q are positive definite cost matrices. According to $( \mathrm { 2 a } ) \ – ( \bar { \mathrm { 2 c } } ) , \{ \bar { x } ( k ) , u ( k ) , y ( k ) \} _ { k = t } ^ { t + N - 1 }$ is a predicted trajectory of the system (1) with an initial state $x _ { t }$ at time t using the system model (1). Equation (2d) enforces the constraints on the predicted trajectory, and we assume U and Y are convex sets. To simplify notation and without loss of generality, we consider a regulation problem $( i . e . , y _ { \mathrm { r } } = \mathbb { 0 } _ { p N } )$ for the rest of the discussions. It is clear that (2) is a convex optimization problem (it is a quadratic program when U and Y are polytopes), which admits an efficient solution when the model for (1) is known, $i . e . ,$ , matrices A, B, C and D are known.
