where $\mathcal { C } _ { i }$ and $\mathcal { D } _ { i }$ are the rows of the closed-loop matrices corresponding to the output $z _ { i }$ . This approach targets each output with a worst-case correlated wind disturbance, as the ambiguity set ${ \mathcal { W } } _ { \mathrm { c o r } }$ allows disturbances to exploit temporal dependencies.

TABLE I: Worst-Case Output Variances of $H _ { 2 }$ and DR Controllers synthesized for unscaled outputs.

<table><tr><td>Output (Unit)</td><td> $H_{2}$  Variance</td><td>DR Variance</td></tr><tr><td>Rotor speed ( $rad^{2}/s^{2}$ )</td><td>25.781</td><td>0.388</td></tr><tr><td>Flapwise disp. ( $m^{2}$ )</td><td>22.246</td><td>20.623</td></tr><tr><td>Torsional angle ( $rad^{2}$ )</td><td>0.000385</td><td>0.000383</td></tr><tr><td>Control input ( $rad^{2}/s^{2}$ )</td><td>8.453</td><td>11.387</td></tr></table>

TABLE II: Worst-Case Output Variances of $H _ { 2 }$ and DR Controllers synthesized for scaled outputs.

<table><tr><td>Output (Unit)</td><td> $H_2$  Variance</td><td>DR Variance</td></tr><tr><td>Rotor speed ( $rad^2/s^2$ )</td><td>16.889</td><td>0.129</td></tr><tr><td>Flapwise disp. ( $m^2$ )</td><td>10.424</td><td>3.906</td></tr><tr><td>Torsional angle ( $rad^2$ )</td><td>0.000385</td><td>0.000383</td></tr><tr><td>Control input ( $rad^2/s^2$ )</td><td>45.670</td><td>142.453</td></tr></table>

Table I reports the worst-case variances for each performance output under individual worst-case disturbance attacks. Clearly, both controllers do not yet meet the design requirements for flapwise displacement, since the target RMS is 2 m, corresponding to a variance of 4 $\mathrm { m ^ { 2 } }$ . For this reason, we carry out a second design step, where we scale the outputs statically to meet the design requirements. The scaled outputs are defined as $\tilde { z } = ( \tilde { z } _ { 1 } ~ \tilde { z } _ { 2 } ~ \tilde { z } _ { 3 } ~ \tilde { z } _ { 4 } ) ^ { \top } = ( \omega , 5 h , 1 0 0 \phi , u ) ^ { \top }$ , where the scaling of h is chosen to meet the design requirement of 2 m RMS, and the scaling of ϕ is chosen to account for the dimensions of the torsional angle.
