# 3.1 Misinformation during natural disasters

Rapid information dissemination during natural disasters is vital for managing public response and ensuring safety. While social media can spread lifesaving information, it is also a source of misinformation [30]. Misinformation during natural disasters has repeatedly demonstrated its potential to cause significant disruptions and harm, despite users believing that they are helping by sharing the information. Misinformation during a time in which people are particularly vulnerable and susceptible to external influences could cause public panic, hinder effective communication, and exacerbate the challenges faced by emergency responders [30]. Key global incidents provide stark examples of the chaos and confusion that can ensue when false information is disseminated. These examples underscore the critical need for accurate information during natural disasters and highlight the detrimental effects misinformation can have on disaster management and public safety.

A notable instance took place during the 2025 wildfires in Los Angeles County, United States when a software glitch resulted in an evacuation alert being sent to nearly 10 million residents, far beyond the actual danger zone. Compounding the error, outdated alerts were rebroadcast when cell towers resumed service after being offline, leading to widespread panic, traffic congestion and public confusion, delaying real evacuation orders to those in need [31]. The chaos included injuries from rushed evacuations and clogged routes that significantly delayed emergency services from reaching those in actual need9. Although system communication failures, such as software glitches or erroneous alerts, are not intended to mislead and thus fall outside the strict definition of misinformation, they can still erode public trust in emergency systems. This erosion may increase susceptibility to actual misinformation, as individuals become desensitized and in the long-run may choose to ignore future legitimate alerts.
