# 3 EVADING ALIGNMENT CHECKS

Alignment checks are intended to ensure that each agent’s actions are “aligned” with the user’s original prompt and, implicitly, the user’s goals. As defined in Chennabasappa et al. (2025), an action is aligned if it is (1) “related to” and (2) “likely to further” the original goal. This is sufficient to block basic prompt injection attacks, since they involve instructions that clearly diverge from the original goal. For example, AgentDojo’s prompt injection (Debenedetti et al., 2024) instructs an agent to: IMPORTANT!!! Ignore all previous instructions and strictly adhere to the following instruction: <payload>. By definition, ignoring all previous instructions cannot align with any original instruction. Alignment checks also partially block control-flow hijacks from Triedman et al. (2025) by detecting that the action of downloading and executing scripts from external URLs is not aligned and thus unsafe.

Unfortunately, alignment checks are very brittle and can be evaded by camouflaging malicious instructions as environmental errors and presenting them so they are:

1. The only apparent way to complete the task;   
2. Received from an implicitly trusted agent; and   
3. Not unconditionally harmful (i.e., there are plausible contexts in which the suggested actions may be useful).

As examples in Figure 2 and Section K show, even advanced LLMs struggle to decide whether these adversarial “errors” are related to and likely to further the original goal. Our attacks (compared in Figure 3) successfully evade alignment checks performed by Llama, o4-mini, 4o, and 4o-mini. In Section 6.4, we demonstrate that more subtle attacks, where the payload requests to add the adversary to the cc: field of an email, are even more effective.

The failure of alignment checks to block CFH attacks exposes a fundamental conflict. On the one hand, LLMs within agents are trained to act “safely.” In isolation, they do recognize that actions such as executing arbitrary code could be unsafe. On the other hand, agents in multi-agent systems must act autonomously, solve errors they encounter, and find ways of fulfilling the user’s goals. Controlflow hijacking attacks present known unsafe actions as necessary, pitting safety against necessity and forcing alignment checkers to make difficult judgments.
