These two models are prototypes in nonlinear approximation theory, given that the ansatz depends not only on the amplitude parameters $w _ { j }$ , which enter linearly as multiplicative weights, but also nonlinearly on the parameters $a _ { j }$ and $b _ { j }$ . This is in contrast with the classical models of linear approximation theory, such as polynomial approximation (Stone–Weierstrass), Fourier series, wavelets, or the finite element method (FEM).

Training these models, namely, determining the optimal parameter values $( w _ { j } , a _ { j } , b _ { j } )$ (or $( w _ { j } , b _ { j } )$ in Wiener’s model) that best represent the dataset by minimizing a loss function, leads to a nonconvex problem in the general setting of nonlinear approximation theory. The nonconvexity arises from the nonlinear dependence of the ansatz (2.1) on the parameters $( a _ { j } , b _ { j } )$ . This section is primarily devoted to analyzing a convex relaxation of this minimization problem.

2.3 Exact representation. The fact that a shallow NN can exactly interpolate the dataset whenever the number of neurons is greater than or equal to the cardinality of the dataset is a classical result, [43]. In particular, as shown in [29], when σ is continuous, $\sigma ( s ) = 0$ for $s \leq 0$ , and $\sigma ( s ) > 0$ for $s > 0$ (for instance the ReLU), and Ω is a compact subset of $\mathbb { R } ^ { d + 1 }$ containing a neighborhood of 0, for any consistent dataset $\{ ( x _ { i } , y _ { i } ) \} _ { i \in [ N ] } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d + 1 }$ , and $P \geq N$ , there exists $\Theta \in ( \mathbb { R } \times \Omega ) ^ { P }$ such that, $f _ { \mathrm { s h a l l o w } }$ as in (2.1) satisfies

$$f _ {\text { shallow }} (x _ {i}, \Theta) = y _ {i}, \forall i \in [ N ]. \tag {2.3}$$

For a fixed dataset $\{ ( x _ { i } , y _ { i } ) \} _ { i \in [ N ] } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d + 1 }$ , (2.3) guarantees the existence of parameters that yield an exact representation via (2.1), $P \geq N$ being sufficient. In some particular cases, exact representation might be achieved with fewer neurons. But, according to the theorem, $P = N$ suffices for all consistent datasets of N pairs.

The choice of the parameters Θ assuring exact representation is not unique. Indeed, generically with respect to $\{ ( a _ { j } , b _ { j } ) \} _ { j \in [ P ] }$ , the basis functions involved are linearly independent, and the existence of weights $\{ w _ { j } \} _ { j \in [ P ] }$ assuring (2.3) is then guaranteed. We are therefore in the regime known as overparameterized.
