Many papers are inspired by the dual-LLM idea. Wu et al. (2024) and Kim et al. (2025) implement similar designs, with additional monitors and guardrails to prevent diversion from the privileged LLM’s initial plan. Li et al. (2025a) turn this defense into a three-step process, where in response to a user query the system performs abstract plan generation, concrete plan instantiation, and isolated plan execution. Costa et al. (2025) recognize performance limitations of complete data redaction and propose a complex information flow control system, with a controller module that dynamically tracks confidentiality and integrity labels, enforces security policies, and selectively reveals or hides information. Their system only hides privileged data that would change the agent system’s plan in an observable way, and only reveals external data using constrained decoding (e.g., data is transformed into a set of structured outputs).

Defenses of this type are designed primarily for single-agent systems. Deploying them in multiagent systems is challenging because the orchestrator plans and delegates sub-tasks to black-box agents without access to their internal state. Furthermore, user intent is attenuated across many agents, planning processes, and tool calls. Further, systems with full information flow control defenses (e.g., where the LLM that interacts with the user is completely separated from the outside world) cannot dynamically re-plan and adapt to errors and faults in their environment because the privileged planner cannot be influenced by errors resulting from untrusted inputs.

Wu et al. (2025) attempt to translate the logic of information flow control to multi-agent systems. They isolate agents into containerized “apps” with a central orchestrator but still allow direct communication between the orchestrator and agents, potentially opening the door to CFH attacks.
