Dynamic policy generation. Another class of defenses uses contextual information to create a formal language of valid state transitions. For example, Chen et al. (2025d) and Xiang et al. (2025) use LLMs to generate an action plan and enforceable access-control code based on the user’s request and the conversation history. Xiang et al. (2025) use past examples and a human-implemented, pre-specified toolbox of potential security actions to dictate what the agent system can and can’t do. Chen et al. (2025d) extract general behavioral rules from written policies (e.g., laws) prior to deriving user query-specific, formally verifiable rules for a given execution.

AgentArmor (Wang et al., 2025a) uses conversational context, natural-language cues, and a chainof-thought prompting strategy to create, for a single agent, a program dependency graph consisting of a control-flow graph (their “control flow” is different from ours because they assume full visibility into the agent’s internal reasoning, tool executions and responses, user prompts, etc.) and a dataflow graph (which maps data access flows among system components). This program dependency graph controls the execution. Camel (Debenedetti et al., 2025) is very similar to AgentArmor. It, too, dynamically constructs control-flow and data-flow graphs from the user prompt, using a limited subset of Python. Camel is also inspired by the Dual-LLM design: a privileged LLM creates a plan (and the associated control-flow graph), a deterministic control prevents deviations from this plan.
