4.2 Exact interpolation of sequences with transformers. The theoretical clustering results discussed above can also serve to enhance the representational capacity of neural network architectures. Building on this idea, in [2] we investigate the interpolation capabilities of a broader class of transformers, consisting of alternating ResNet and self-attention layers, which we interpret as a discrete dynamical system.

Since we identify sequences with finite sets of elements in $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ , two sequences are regarded as equal if they differ only by a permutation of their elements, a property known as permutation invariance. Moreover, we assume the following properties for the dataset of sequences: i) the input and target sequences $\{ ( Z ^ { j } , Y ^ { j } ) \} _ { j \in [ N ] }$ satisfy that the sequences $\boldsymbol { Z } ^ { 1 } , \ldots , \boldsymbol { Z } ^ { N }$ are pairwise distinct, and ii) tokens within each input and output sequence are pairwise distinct. Let R denote a “readout” map, which we fix as the set-to-set transformation that removes repeated elements from the input set. For instance, for $z _ { 1 } \neq z _ { 2 }$ , then $\operatorname { R } ( \{ z _ { 1 } , z _ { 1 } , z _ { 2 } \} ) = \{ z _ { 1 } , z _ { 2 } \}$ .

We pose the following exact interpolation problem: find a transformer ${ \mathrm { ~ T ~ } } : ~ ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } ) ^ { n } ~ \to ~ ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } ) ^ { n }$ such that $( \mathrm { R } \circ \mathrm { T } ) ( Z ^ { j } ) = Y ^ { j }$ for all $j \in [ N ]$ .

To illustrate this framework, we now present two classical examples of exact interpolation. The first is nexttoken prediction, where each sequence $Z ^ { j }$ corresponds to an incomplete sentence and the target $Y ^ { j } = \{ y ^ { j } \}$ is a single token encoding the missing word, i.e., m = 1. The second is sequence-to-sequence interpolation, where the target $Y ^ { j } = \{ y _ { 1 } ^ { j } , \dots , y _ { m } ^ { j } \}$ represents the possible set of words completing the sentence.
