# A.2 FILTERING AND MODIFYING INPUTS, OUTPUTS, AND SYSTEM PROMPTS

Another class of defenses (a) aims to detect inputs or outputs associated with attacks, or (b) modifies inputs to isolate potentially harmful substrings, or (c) incorporates defensive instructions into the system prompt.

Jacob et al. (2025), ProtectAI (2024), and Chennabasappa et al. (2025) train smaller custom models to classify whether a given input contains a jailbreak attempt (if it comes from the user) or a prompt injection (if it comes from an untrusted tool). Hung et al. (2025) and Wen et al. (2025) assume access to the model’s attention heads and detect prompt injection attempts by analyzing activations and identifying “distraction.” Chen et al. (2025c) observe that prompt injection attacks involve an adversary instructing the model to follow multiple instructions. They prompt the LLM to output (instruction, response) pairs in the order the instructions were received and only keep the first one.

Many prompt injection defenses rely on modifications of system prompts. For example, Schulhoff (2024a;c) instruct the model that prompt injection could be present in the returned text or ask it to rephrase the user’s request. The “sandwich” approach (Schulhoff, 2024b; Wang et al., 2025b) delimits untrusted text which may contain prompt injections with special strings. Shi et al. (2025a) test the practical effectiveness of these defenses for Google’s Gemini models. Finally, Shi et al. (2025c) and Li et al. (2025b) use LLMs to detect prompt injection attempts in input text and remove the risky substrings.
