In dimension two a positive answer to this question follows from works such as [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] as mentioned above. E.S. Pyatnitskiy and L.B. Rapoport also announced a positive answer to this question in the three-dimensional case (see [11, §X]) but did not give a detailed proof. A complete, positive resolution of Question 1 for three-dimensional systems was recently announced by the author and J. Bochi in the separate preprint [12]. The purpose of this note is to prove that the answer to Question 1 is negative in the case $N = d = 4$ , which trivially implies a negative result for all higher dimensions d. To do this we will construct a linear switched system whose most unstable switching laws are quasi-periodic, being in a certain sense the product of two periodic motions which resonate with one another at an irrational frequency.

A related question addressed by L. Gurvits, R. Shorten and O. Mason [15], also posed independently by D. Angeli, asked whether every positive linear switched system $\big \{ A _ { 0 } , \dotsc , A _ { N - 1 } \big \}$ with the property that every matrix in the convex hull of $\big \{ A _ { 0 } , \dotsc , A _ { N - 1 } \big \}$ is Hurwitz must be GUAS. Here the system is called positive if all of the matrices $A _ { 0 } , \ldots , A _ { N - 1 }$ are Metzler matrices, or equivalently if for every trajectory $x ( t )$ which begins at a non-negative vector $x ( 0 )$ , the vector x(t) is nonnegative for all $t \geq 0$ . This question was resolved negatively by Gurvits et al in [15] in the case where the dimension is sufficiently large, and a counterexample in dimension 3 was later obtained by Fainshil, Margaliot and Chigansky in [14]. In view of this question it is natural to ask whether counterexamples to Question 1 may be constructed which have the property of being positive. While we are not able to resolve this question definitively, we believe that such counterexamples should exist. This matter will be discussed further in the conclusions.

The result which we demonstrate in this note is the following negative answer to Question 1:

Theorem 1. There exists a set A of four $4 \times 4$ real matrices with the property that every solution of (1) corresponding to a periodic Lebesgue measurable switching law A(t) converges exponentially to zero, but such that the linear switched system defined by A is not GUAS.
