If additionally $B ( t )$ is periodic with period p then each of $v _ { 0 } ( t )$ and $v _ { 1 } ( t )$ ) either is constant or is periodic with least period dividing $p .$ If $v _ { i }$ is constant a.e. then $x _ { i } ( t )  0$ exponentially since every convex combination of $A _ { 0 }$ and $A _ { 1 }$ is Hurwitz, so suppose instead that both are periodic. Then $v _ { 0 } ( t )$ and $v _ { 1 } ( \alpha t )$ are both periodic but the ratio of their least periods is a rational multiple of $\alpha ,$ , hence is irrational, so at least one of them is not periodic with period $T$ . It follows by Theorem $2 ( \mathrm { i v } )$ that either $x _ { 0 } ( t ) { \mathrm { ~ o r ~ } } z ( t ) = x _ { 1 } ( \alpha t )$ converges exponentially to zero while the other is uniformly bounded by Theorem 2(ii). In particular $y ( t )$ converges exponentially to zero as required. This completes the proof of (i) and (ii) for trajectories whose initial condition has the form $w _ { 0 } \otimes w _ { 1 }$ where $w _ { 0 } , w _ { 1 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ are unit vectors, and the general case follows by linear superposition as noted previously.

It remains to prove Theorem 3(iii). By Theorem 2(iii) there exist $u \colon [ 0 , \infty ) $ [0, 1] and nonzero w $\in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ such that the solution to

$$\dot {x} (t) = ((1 - u (t)) A _ {0} + u (t) A _ {1}) x (t), \quad x (0) = w$$

is periodic. Define $B \colon [ 0 , \infty ) \to { \mathsf { B } }$ by

$$
\begin{array}{l} B (t) = (1 - u (t)) (1 - u (\alpha t)) B _ {0} + u (t) (1 - u (\alpha t)) B _ {1} \\ + (1 - u (t)) u (\alpha t) B _ {2} + u (t) u (\alpha t) B _ {3} \\ = B _ {0} + u (t) \left(B _ {1} - B _ {0}\right) + u (\alpha t) \left(B _ {2} - B _ {0}\right) \\ = ((1 - u (t)) A _ {0} + u (t) A _ {1}) \otimes I \\ + \alpha \cdot I \otimes ((1 - u (\alpha t)) A _ {0} + u (\alpha t) A _ {1}) \\ \end{array}
$$

so that $y ( t ) : = x ( t ) \otimes x ( \alpha t )$ solves ${ \dot { y } } ( t ) = B ( t ) y ( t )$ a.e. and $\boldsymbol { y } ( 0 ) = \boldsymbol { w } \otimes \boldsymbol { w }$ . Since $x ( t )$ is periodic and never zero, we have

$$\inf _ {t \geq 0} \| y (t) \| = \inf _ {t \geq 0} \| x (t) \otimes x (\alpha t) \| \geq \left(\inf _ {t \geq 0} \| x (t) \|\right) ^ {2} > 0$$

so that $y ( t )$ remains a bounded distance away from the origin at all times. The proof of the theorem is complete.
