2.1 Supervised learning and data representation. Supervised learning aims to learn a map $f \colon  { \mathbb { R } ^ { d } } \to \frac { \cdot } { \cdot }$ R from inputs (features) to outputs (labels) using labeled training data, constituting the observed finite dataset $\{ ( x _ { i } , y _ { i } ) \} _ { i \in [ N ] } \ \subset \ \mathbb { R } ^ { d + 1 }$ , where [N ] stands for the set of indices $[ N ] = \{ 1 , . . . , N \}$ . The goal is to minimize prediction error on unseen data, which inherently depends on how features capture the underlying structure of the problem. A good representation simplifies the input-output relationship, making it easier for the model to generalize. On the contrary, poor representations, in particular, those capturing noisy/irrelevant features, force the model to memorize unnecessary training data, leading to overfitting.

The origins of data representation trace back to the pioneering and visionary work of Legendre (1805) and Gauss (1809) on the method of least squares, later extended using NN ansätze.

In line with [29], we analyze shallow NN architectures within the framework of control and optimization.

2.2 The model. We assume a consistent dataset, namely, a set of observations where all the input values (or features) $x _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ are distinct. In practice, the observations may be corrupted by noise or measurement errors. For the sake of simplicity, we consider scalar labels $y _ { i } \in \mathbb { R }$ , but our analysis can be easily extended to vector-valued labels.

The standard reconstruction methodology follows a least-squares approach, seeking the best approximation within a predefined function class specified by an NN ansatz, namely a shallow NN involving $P$ neurons:

$$f _ {\text { shallow }} (x, \Theta) := \sum_ {j \in [ P ]} w _ {j} \sigma (\langle a _ {j}, x \rangle + b _ {j}), x \in \mathbb {R} ^ {d}. \tag {2.1}$$
