# 5.1 DATASETS

CFH-Hard coding (10 tasks). This is a more advanced version of the original CFH dataset by Triedman et al. (2025). Use cases include dataset summarization, statistical analysis, data visualization, code explanation, and debugging (Section G). The attacker’s goal is to open a reverse shell. We introduce five new control-flow hijacking inputs and three new, harder IPIs (Section I).

CFH-Hard computer use (6 tasks). These tasks emulate non-coding uses of MAS, including dataset summarization, competitor research, and temporal analysis. The setup includes the web surfer, file surfer, and emailer agents. The attacker’s goal is to exfiltrate information by adding cc: to “support” (an external, untrusted recipient) in the system’s next outgoing email. These attacks do not introduce any new agents to the control flow, thus complying with agent-level “least privilege.” We use the same attack inputs as above. We also use our computer-use tasks to investigate, for the first time, accidental violations, i.e., insecure agent behavior that occurs even in the absence of explicitly adversarial external inputs. In these experiments, we measure how often MAS (with and without the defense) send sensitive data to unauthorized users or access unauthorized data upon encountering vaguely worded (but non-adversarial) “docs” when trying to fulfill a user request.

AgentDojo Slack (21 tasks). Since AgentDojo was designed for model-level interventions in single-agent systems, we create a custom wrapper for multi-agent systems in the benchmark’s Slack environment. The attacker’s goal is to exfiltrate user information via fake support tickets. We use the same IPIs as in CFH-Hard, and introduce a Slack control-flow hijacking input.
