where the supremum is over all absolutely continuous functions $x \colon [ 0 , \infty ) \to \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ which solve (2) for some measurable switching law u: $[ 0 , \infty )  [ 0 , 1 ]$ and some nonzero initial condition $x ( 0 )$ on the unit circle. The existence of the limit Λ is guaranteed by Fekete’s lemma. By replacing $A _ { 0 }$ and $A _ { 1 }$ with $A _ { 0 } - \Lambda \cdot I$ and $A _ { 1 } - \Lambda \cdot I$ if necessary, we will additionally assume without loss of generality that Λ is equal to zero. Clearly this subtraction of $\Lambda \cdot I$ does not change the validity of (5) since the effect of this transformation is to multiply both sides by precisely $e ^ { - \Lambda }$ . Once this transformation has been made the right-hand side of the inequality is clearly at most 1 and hence the left-hand side is strictly less than 1, implying that every $( 1 - \gamma ) A _ { 0 } + \gamma A _ { 1 }$ is Hurwitz. It is easily checked that (5) is impossible if $A _ { 0 }$ and $A _ { 1 }$ have a shared real eigenvector (or equivalently, if there exists an invertible matrix X such that $X A _ { 0 } X ^ { - 1 }$ and $X A _ { 1 } \dot { X } ^ { - 1 }$ are both upper triangular) and is also impossible if $I , A _ { 0 }$ and $A _ { 1 }$ are linearly dependent. We have established (i).

We now prove (ii) and the clause of (iii) which guarantees the existence of a periodic trajectory. The real number

$$\min _ {\| w \| = 1} \min _ {\gamma \in [ 0, 1 ]} | \det [ ((1 - \gamma) A _ {0} + \gamma A _ {1}) w, w ] |$$

cannot be zero since this would imply the existence of a zero eigenvalue for some $( 1 - \gamma ) A _ { 0 } + \gamma A _ { 1 }$ , contradicting the Hurwitz property. Hence there exists $\kappa > 0$ such that either

$$\min _ {\| w \| = 1} \min _ {\gamma \in [ 0, 1 ]} \det [ ((1 - \gamma) A _ {0} + \gamma A _ {1}) w, w ] \geq \kappa \tag {6}$$

or

$$\max _ {\| w \| = 1} \max _ {\gamma \in [ 0, 1 ]} \det [ ((1 - \gamma) A _ {0} + \gamma A _ {1}) w, w ] \leq - \kappa . \tag {7}$$
