# I. INTRODUCTION

The state of the legged robot, including body velocity and orientation, is crucial for legged robot control applications[1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6]. These states are challenging to measure directly and are typically estimated using sensor fusion methods [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17]. The literature on legged robot estimation is classified based on the sensors used: proprioceptive, exteroceptive, or both[9]. Exteroceptive methods are useful but still face challenges in difficult environments such as fog or reed fields. In this paper, our objective is to improve the performance of proprioceptive estimation for control.

Bloesch et al. [7] introduced a proprioceptive method that fuses leg kinematics, contact data, and inertial measurements (accelerometer and gyroscope) using an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) with static contact assumption. However, it is vulnerable to slipping due to the static contact assumption. In the following paper [8], they proposed a model using static contact velocity kinematics with UKF for higher accuracy and introduced Mahalanobis distance based slip rejection for slippery terrain.

A similar methodology has been applied to bipedal robots[11][12][13]. Building on the above idea, R. Hartley et al. [12] implemented the Invariant Extended Kalman Filter (IEKF) [18], which offers faster convergence and improved robustness than EKF. Despite the unobservability of the absolute position, it demonstrated low drift in long odometry

This work was supported by the R&D Division of Hyundai Motor Company. (Kyung-Hwan Kim is first author. Dong Hyun Ahn, Dong Hyun Lee, Ju Young Yoon are second authors.)(Corresponding authors: Dong Jin Hyun) Kyung-Hwan Kim, Dong Hyun Ahn, Dong Hyun Lee, Ju Young Yoon, and Dong Jin Hyun are with the Robotics Lab, Research and Development Division, Hyundai Motor Company, Uiwang 16082, South Korea(email: kkh9764@hyundai.com; dhahn@hyundai.com; lee.dh@hyundai.com; imax@hyundai.com; mecjin@hyundai.com) experiments. However, it is also vulnerable to slip due to the static contact assumption and it does not address the slip. Teng et al. [11] proposed a methodology that utilizes IEKF and Mahalanobis distance-based slip rejection, similar to [8].
