3 Control-based supervised learning with residual neural networks and neural ODEs. Previously, we showed that shallow NNs can represent finite datasets, and we also derived estimates on the model complexity and on their generalization capacity. We further observed that relaxation allows us to convexify the training problem, at the price of making it infinite-dimensional.

Deeper insights arise from analyzing the gradient descent dynamics when training the finite-dimensional ansatz. This is a delicate matter, as nonlinear phenomena such as condensation may occur [44]. These effects are linked to the absence of a gap between the original finite-dimensional training problem and its relaxed infinitedimensional counterpart. Indeed, even when starting from a continuum of parameters, $\ell ^ { 1 } { \mathrm { - o p t i m a l } }$ minimizers involve only N neurons. Condensation also accounts for the fact that exact representation can sometimes be achieved even when $P < N$ , or even in the underparameterized regime $P < N / ( d + 1 )$ . However, a complete characterization of the datasets that can be exactly represented with $P < N$ neurons remains out of reach.

The methodology based on the static NN ansatz (2.1) offers only limited interpretative power. We therefore turn to deep NNs, where the role of width in shallow architectures is replaced by depth, modeled as a discrete iterative dynamical system. This viewpoint reformulates representation as a control problem, providing deeper insight into how parameters should be selected to perform data representation tasks effectively. It also leads to constructive strategies that not only identify suitable networks but also yield quantitative estimates. In turn, this framework offers valuable guidance on what can be expected when training deep networks through optimization methods, as is commonly done in practice.

3.1 Supervised learning as a control problem. We focus on residual NNs (ResNets) introduced in [19] (see also [11], [18], and [24]). A ResNet of depth $L \in \mathbb { N }$ can be described as a discrete-time dynamical system evolving in Rd :

$$x ^ {k + 1} = x ^ {k} + W ^ {k} \boldsymbol {\sigma} (A ^ {k} x ^ {k} + b ^ {k}), \quad k \in [ L ], \tag {3.1}$$

where:
