Here, inputs and outputs (or labels) both lie in the same space $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ . In practical applications, however, this is generally not the case. For instance, in the shallow NN framework considered in the previous section, the inputs belonged to $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ , while the outputs were in R. NODEs can be naturally adapted to such situations by composing the flow map $\Phi _ { T } ( \cdot ; W , A , b )$ with a suitable linear projection or extension operator that maps the ambient space $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ into the Euclidean space of labels. This is, in fact, the standard practice in most applications, also when dealing with NODEs. This issue will be omitted here for the sake of brevity.

3.2 Simultaneous control: depth versus width. A fundamental challenge in control theory is determining whether a system can be fully manipulated to achieve a desired outcome. This is formalized through the concept of controllability, which explores whether it is possible to steer a system from any given initial state to any desired final state within a finite time, using admissible controls. However, as mentioned above, with supervised learning applications in mind, in the context of NODEs, we are rather interested in a more demanding goal: that of simultaneous or ensemble control.

We focus on piecewise-constant controls in time that, as we shall see, will suffice to achieve our goals. This choice, on the one hand, naturally induces a layered structure that mirrors the discrete nature of ResNet architectures. On the other hand, it renders the NODE dynamics more tractable and interpretable, while also facilitating the design of control inputs. We will be able to prove the needed property of simultaneous control by carefully and inductively defining each of the values that the controls take.

To break this down, we consider the equivalent formulation of (3.3):

$$\dot {x} (t) = \sum_ {i \in [ P ]} w _ {i} (t) \sigma (\langle a _ {i} (t), x (t) \rangle + b _ {i} (t)), \qquad t \in (0, T), \tag {3.4}$$

where $w _ { i } ( t ) , a _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ are the columns of $W ( t )$ and the rows of $A ( t )$ , respectively, and $b _ { i } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R }$ is the i -th coordinate of $b ( t )$ .

In what follows, to streamline the presentation, we focus on the case where the activation function σ is the ReLU, although most of what we say can be easily generalized for a broad class of activation functions.
