The state transformation above is bijective (from [0, 1] to $\lbrack 0 , \infty ] )$ and monotonically increasing with respect to the input. Taking $\mathbb { T } ( \mathbb { E } X _ { i } )$ as the state of node i, then the dynamics in (12) leads to the following upper bound dynamics

$$\mathbb {T} \left(\mathbb {E} X _ {i} (k + 1)\right) \leq \sum_ {j \in N _ {i} ^ {\circ k}} \Psi \left(w _ {i j}, \mathbb {T} \left(\mathbb {E} X _ {i} (k)\right)\right)$$

in terms of the evolution of the Shannon information content (of being healthy). Then by Proposition 2, we obtain that

$$s _ {i} (k) \geq \mathbb {T} (\mathbb {E} X _ {i}) \triangleq - \log (1 - \mathbb {E} X _ {i}), \tag {14}$$

that is, the states following the TransNN dynamics in (8) provide an upper bound for the information content of being healthy for node $i \in [ n ]$ . Then taking the inverse mapping of T on both sides, we obtain the following result.

Proposition 3 Assume (A1) and (A3) hold. Let $X _ { i } ( k ) , i \in$ [n] be the binary state in dynamics (1) and let $s _ { i } ( k )$ denote the information content state in dynamics (8). Let $s _ { i } ( 0 ) =$ $- \log ( 1 - \operatorname* { P r } ( X _ { i } ( 0 ) = 1 ) ) \in [ 0 , + \infty ]$ for all $i \in [ n ]$ . Given the same physical contact network $( V , E ^ { k } )$ for all $k \in \mathbb { N } ,$ , the same conditional transmission probabilities $\{ w _ { i j } ^ { k } , i , j \in$ $[ n ] , k \geq 0 \}$ , the following inequality holds

$$\operatorname * {P r} (X _ {i} (k) = 1) \leq 1 - \exp (- s _ {i} (k)), \quad \forall i \in [ n ], \forall k \in \mathbb {N}; \tag {15}$$

if, furthermore, (A4) is satisfied for the dynamics (1), then the inequality in (15) becomes an equality for all $k \in$ $\{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , T \}$ and all $i \in [ n ]$ . ✷

Remark 2 Under (A1) and (A3), the Markovian dynamics (1) have an absorbing state configuration where all nodes are healthy. It implies that when the time runs sufficiently long, all nodes will eventually become healthy. However, when the number of nodes n is large, the time required for the infection to end can be extremely long, and in such cases the expected mixing time can be analyzed instead, which depends on the network connectivity [15]. ✷

Since the TransNN model (8) and the equivalent virus spread model (7) are less conservative than the associated linear approximation of the SIS epidemic model (see the proof of [21, Thm. 1]), simpler but more conservative upper bounds for the probability of infection can be obtained below.
