2.5 On the lack of relaxation gap. In [29], as a direct consequence of the representer theorem by Fisher-Jerome [14], we proved the following result guaranteeing that there is no gap between the primal problems and the relaxed ones, and that the extreme points of the relaxed solution sets have an atomic structure, with N atoms, corresponding to the minimizers of the primal finite-dimensional optimization problem.

Theorem 2.1 (No-Gap, [29]). When $P \geq N$ , the solution sets of $\mathrm { ( P R _ { 0 } ) }$ and $\mathrm { ( P R } _ { \epsilon } )$ , denoted respectively by $S ( \mathrm { P R } _ { 0 } )$ and $S ( \mathrm { P R } _ { \epsilon } )$ , are nonempty, convex and compact in the weak-∗ sense.

Moreover,

$$\text { val } (P _ {0}) = \text { val } (P R _ {0}), \quad \text { Ext } \big (S (P R _ {0}) \big) \subseteq \left\{\sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} w _ {j} \delta_ {(a _ {j}, b _ {j})} \Big | (\Theta_ {j}) _ {j = 1} ^ {N} \in S (P _ {0}) \right\}, \tag {2.6}\mathrm{val} (P _ {\epsilon}) = \mathrm{val} (P R _ {\epsilon}), \quad \mathrm{Ext} \big (S (P R _ {\epsilon}) \big) \subseteq \left\{\sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} w _ {j} \delta_ {(a _ {j}, b _ {j})} \Big | (\Theta_ {j}) _ {j = 1} ^ {N} \in S (P _ {\epsilon}) \right\}, \tag {2.7}$$

where $\operatorname { E x t } ( S )$ represents the set of all extreme points of $S , S ( P )$ the solution set of the corresponding optimization problem P and val(P ) the minimum value.

In light of this result, the values of the primal problems become independent of P as soon as $P \geq N$ . Consequently, increasing P beyond N does not improve the optimal value of the objective function. At the same time, choosing $P = N$ minimizes the representational complexity of the NN ansatz, making it a natural and efficient hyperparameter choice. On the other hand, the result guarantees that the extremal minimizers of the relaxed problem have an atomic structure, leading to the original NN ansatz.

This result paves the way for efficient optimization methods by exploiting the convexity of the relaxed problem.

2.6 Generalization error. In practical applications, the primary goal of supervised learning is to approximate an unknown target function. Consequently, NNs must demonstrate strong generalization capabilities, not only within the training dataset but also beyond it, in the more challenging setting of out-of-distribution generalization.
