It is a problem of fundamental interest to find general conditions which guarantee that a given system is GUAS. It is necessary for GUAS that every element of the convex hull of A should be a Hurwitz matrix – or equivalently, that every constant switching law $A ( t )$ with values in the convex hull should give rise only to exponentially stable trajectories – but it is also known that this condition does not itself imply GUAS. More precisely, certain linear switched systems in two dimensions have the property that every constant switching law gives rise only to exponentially stable trajectories, yet certain periodic switching laws give rise to unstable trajectories. Examples of such systems have been investigated for example in [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11], where second-order systems were studied, and higher-dimensional systems with similar properties have been investigated in [12, 13, 14, 15]. Notably, in the second-order case it is possible to demonstrate that a system is stable if and only if every constant switching law and every periodic switching law gives rise only to exponentially decaying trajectories. The stability analysis of second-order switched systems under arbitrary switching is thus reduced to the much simpler problem of testing whether or not the system is stable for a certain explicit class of “most unstable switching laws” all of which are either constant, or periodic with a simple and explicit structure.

It is natural to ask whether the same result holds for higher order systems. The following question was posed by R. Shorten et al. in the survey article [4]:

Question 1. Let $A _ { 0 } , \ldots , A _ { N - 1 }$ be $d \times d$ matrices. Suppose that every matrix in the convex hull of $\big \{ A _ { 0 } , \dotsc , A _ { N - 1 } \big \}$ is Hurwitz, and suppose additionally that every trajectory of (1) which arises from a periodic switching law converges to the origin. Does it follow that the linear switched system defined by $\big \{ A _ { 0 } , \dotsc , A _ { N - 1 } \big \}$ is GUAS?
