• The index k acts as a pseudo-time variable in this discrete-time system.   
• $x ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ represents the evolving state of the network.   
• The parameters $W ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times P } , A ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { P \times d }$ , and $b ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { P }$ define the transformations at each layer.

• $L \geq 1$ and $P \geq 1$ denote the depth and width of the network, respectively.

• $\pmb { \sigma } : \mathbb { R } ^ { P }  \mathbb { R } ^ { P }$ is a vector-valued activation function, in which the scalar one σ is applied component-wise. A common choice is the (vectorial) ReLU function.

When $P = 1$ , the model simplifies to:

$$x ^ {k + 1} = x ^ {k} + w ^ {k} \sigma (\langle a ^ {k}, x ^ {k} \rangle + b ^ {k}), \quad k \in [ L ], \tag {3.2}$$

where $b ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R }$ are scalar drift coefficients and $a ^ { k } , w ^ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ are vector valued, respectively.

The ResNet architecture differs fundamentally from the shallow model (2.1). Rather than stacking all neurons simultaneously, ResNets introduce them progressively (one in (3.2) or P in (3.1), at a time) through an inductive, layer-wise construction. This shift from width (represented by P in shallow networks) to a combination of depth L and width P in ResNets provides several advantages. Notably, as we shall see, the representational properties of ResNets can be naturally interpreted within a control-theoretical framework.

The ResNet (3.1) can be viewed as the Euler discretization of the continuous-time dynamics known as NODE:

$$\dot {x} (t) = W (t) \boldsymbol {\sigma} (A (t) x (t) + b (t)), \quad t \in (0, T); \quad x (0) = x ^ {0}. \tag {3.3}$$

This provides a continuous interpretation of deep learning dynamics, bridging discrete architectures with differential equations. In this continuous-time model:

• The state $\ b { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ evolves continuously over time.

• The parameters $( W ( t ) , A ( t ) , b ( t ) )$ , which play the role of controls, depend on the continuous time t. We can assume them to lie in the space $\mathcal { S } _ { P } = L ^ { \infty } ( 0 , T ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times P } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P \times d } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P } ) )$ . The controls we construct are piecewise constant with finitely many jumps, and therefore belong to the space of functions of bounded variation, denoted by BV $( 0 , \breve { T } ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times \breve { P } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { \breve { P } \times d } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P } )$ .
