In [2], we show that the exact interpolation problem can be solved with transformers alternating ResNets (with the ReLU activation function) and self-attention steps. Furthermore, we provide explicit complexity bounds, establishing that transformers need a total of O(N m) ResNet and self-attention layers and O(d N m) nonzero parameters to achieve exact interpolation. One of the remarkable strengths of this transformer architecture is that its parameter complexity is independent of the input sequence length n, but depends on the output sequence length m. This stands in clear contrast to pure ResNets or NODEs, where, as we have seen, the number of parameters scales linearly with the dimensions of the dataset, which in the present setting is O(d n N ) .

Our results, initially derived for transformers with a hardmax self-attention formulation, also apply to the standard softmax self-attention. The latter is defined with a temperature parameter $\tau > 0$ as

$$\pi_ {i \ell} ^ {\tau} (Z) = \frac {\exp \left(\frac {1}{\tau} \langle A z _ {i} , z _ {\ell} \rangle\right)}{\sum_ {k = 1} ^ {n} \exp \left(\frac {1}{\tau} \langle A z _ {i} , z _ {k} \rangle\right)}. \tag {4.2}$$

As $\tau  0$ , the singular limit leads to the hardmax self-attention formulation:

$$
\pi_ {i \ell} ^ {0} (Z) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {1}{| \mathcal {C} _ {i} (Z) |} & \text { if   } \ell \in \mathcal {C} _ {i} (Z), \\ 0 & \text { otherwise } \end{array} \right. \tag {4.3}
$$

where $\mathcal { C } _ { i } ( Z )$ is defined as in (4.1b) above.

Our results are proved constructively with a simultaneous control strategy, characterizing explicitly the parameters of each layer. Such a strategy leverages self-attention layers in two key ways: first, by allowing sequences to become pairwise disjoint, and second, by clustering the n tokens of the input sequence to the m tokens of the target sequence. This effectively removes the dependency of the total number of parameters required for exact interpolation on the input sequence length n, typically large. The number of required parameters is then governed by the output sequence length m.
