Bledt et al. [14] employed a two-stage approach, first estimating orientation and then estimating position and velocity using a Kalman Filter (KF) with a contact detection algorithm. This method achieved fast estimation, but did not address slip and has the limitation that contact and kinematics cannot influence orientation estimation.

Kim, J.H. et al. [10] proposed an estimation method using Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) in a similar model. They also suggested slip rejection by predicting the current foot velocity from previous velocity estimates. However, the large size of the estimator limits implementation in real-time.

We categorize previous models into two groups: the Position Kinematics-based Model (PKM) and the Velocity Kinematics-based Model (VKM). PKM uses the foot position, assumed to be static, as a state variable and uses position kinematics as a measurement [7], [12]. Otherwise, VKM uses velocity kinematics measurement, assuming the foot is static [8], [11]. While VKM features a smaller filter size and is more effective at handling slips, it exhibits higher drift compared to PKM due to the absence of landmark positions and noise in velocity measurement. To address this, we adopt PKM and incorporate slip detection.

Previous studies on PKM typically used a small constant value for the contact foot model noise during the stance phase. However, since this approach is vulnerable to slips, slip rejection methodologies are typically added. Two main slip rejection methodologies are commonly used: one based on the Mahalanobis distance [8] and the other predicting the current foot velocity [10]. These methods rely on a thresholdbased on/off approach, which makes it difficult to handle small slips or address individual x, y, and z axes. If the slip rejection is set too sensitively, all legs may be classified as slipping, causing the filter to diverge. To address this issue, we propose a method that adaptively adjusts the contact foot model noise. Furthermore, in contrast to most previous studies that rely on contact sensors, the proposed approach is validated using a contact detection algorithm[19], which reduces hardware costs. We developed the methodology based on the IEKF, ensuring robustness and fast convergence. The proposed method was tested on our quadruped robot, LeoQuad.

The contributions of this work are as follows:

• Proposed an Adaptive IEKF that dynamically adjusts the noise level of the contact foot model.

• Integrated a Mahalanobis distance-based slip rejection method for the PKM.   
• Validated the proposed methodology through real-robot experiments with a contact detection algorithm.

Section II provides the mathematical overview that is essential to be understood in advance. Section III discusses the state estimation methodology for legged robots. Section IV presents the results from real-robot experiments. Finally, we conclude in Section V.
