# 1 INTRODUCTION

LLM-based “agents” equipped with tools for querying APIs, searching the Web, and executing code promise to automate many digital tasks. Popular frameworks like AutoGen (Microsoft, 2025), OpenManus (OpenManus, 2025), CrewAI (CrewAI, 2025), and MetaGPT (MetaGPT, 2025) enable design and deployment of multi-agent systems (MAS). The key principle in MAS is delegation. Given a relatively complex task (e.g., “organize an offsite given team members’ calendars, managers’ private messages, and Web data about attractions and weather”), MAS plan how to solve it, delegate sub-tasks to specialized agents, evaluate their responses, and adaptively re-plan if necessary. Delegation splits fulfilling a task into chunks that are (a) hidden within individual agents (e.g., how to access a website or read a file), and (b) joined into an overall plan by an orchestrator who does not observe the execution of sub-tasks, only their results as reported. Critically, MAS can include external agents whose LLMs are accessed via APIs. Their internal states (prompts, weights, reasoning traces, intermediate outputs, etc.) are invisible and uncontrollable (Surapaneni et al., 2025). There is no single vantage point in the system that can observe the entire context.

Individual agents in MAS interact with untrusted content: emails, websites, social media, etc. This exposes them to indirect prompt injection, or IPI (Greshake et al., 2023), i.e., malicious instructions in the content they ingest (Constantin, 2025; Karliner, 2025; Ravia, 2025; Abu, 2025). Aligning individual agents to resist IPI is not enough. Triedman et al. (2025) demonstrated control-flow hijacking (CFH) attacks that exploit confused-deputy vulnerabilities (Hardy, 1988) in otherwise aligned agents. CFH attacks masquerade as legitimate errors (e.g., failure to parse a file), along with seemingly helpful instructions on how to fix the issue and continue with the user’s task. MAS orchestrators receive these instructions from a trusted agent to which they delegated an essential sub-task and rely on them to re-plan the execution and invoke unsafe agents as (indirectly) requested by the attacker. CFH enables attackers to run arbitrary malicious code and exfiltrate any information available to the MAS: credentials, emails, calendars, local files, logged-in web views, etc.
