Enforcing control-flow integrity and contextual appropriateness. At execution time, before any agent transition A → B, the orchestrator checks whether this transition (1) corresponds to a permitted edge in the CFG, and (2) is contextually appropriate. For the latter check, an LLM judge inspects the conversation trace and determines whether the contextual rules for this specific edge permit the call to B. The judge is not asked to determine the merits of the rules or justifications for violating them (this is how alignment checks in LlamaFirewall fail, see Section 3). If the check fails, CON-TROLVALVE determines whether the rules could have been met with either additional constraints on the prompt, or by another agent. If so, CONTROLVALVE replans, otherwise it blocks the transition. A maximum of three re-planning attempts are allowed.

Limitations. We believe that CONTROLVALVE is a significant advance over the defenses based on alignment checks or (only) the principle of least privilege, but it is not perfect. Because controlflow graphs and edge-specific rules in CONTROLVALVE are created by LLMs, they can be incorrect, too permissive, or too restrictive. While uncommon (see Sections C and D), if the LLM makes a mistake creating the graph or the rules, the defense can fail. Fortunately, the planning stage in CON-TROLVALVE is not exposed to untrusted content, so there is less of a risk of prompt injection. As in CFI (Abadi et al., 2005), the graph may be too lax (i.e., an over-approximation of the legitimate executions) and thus potentially permit executions that should not happen. In CFI research, there is a large body of work (see Goktas et al. (2014); Burow et al. (2018)) on evasion attacks that compromise programs while complying with the statically computed CFG. It is an open question whether similar CFH attacks are possible in multi-agent systems. If the generated CFG is too restrictive, it may limit functionality of MAS by preventing agents from adaptively invoking new agents and tools when they encounter genuine errors and faults. We investigate this failure mode in Sections D and F. Finally, although the runtime overhead of our method is comparable to LlamaFirewall, the extra time it takes may be intractable in some settings (see Section E).
