Theorem 3.3 (Depth versus width, [5]). Let $d \ \geq \ 2 , \ N \ \geq \ 1$ and $T \ > \ 0$ be fixed. Given $P _ { \mathrm { ~ \scriptsize ~ \geq ~ 1 ~ } }$ and $\{ x _ { i } , y _ { i } \} _ { i \in [ N ] } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ with $x _ { i } ~ \neq ~ x _ { j }$ and $y _ { i } \ \ne \ y _ { j } f o r i \ne j$ , there exist piecewise constant controls $( W , A , b ) = ( \dot { W } ( t ) , A ( t ) , b ( t ) ) \in \mathcal { S } _ { P }$ with $L = 2 \lceil N / P \rceil - 1$ switches, such that the flow map ΦT generated $b y$ (3.3) satisfies (3.7).

The proof of this result is based on a two-step control method, applied inductively. The width P enables parallelizing the movements in the inductive proof developed for $P = 1$ . As P increases, the number of switches L decreases at the same rate, suggesting that both parameters play complementary roles in our control method. Remarkably, the overall complexity of the NODE, quantified by the product of the number of switches (L) and the number of neurons $( P )$ , remains invariant.

However, even when $P \geq N$ , at least one switch $( L = 1 )$ is required to transition between the two steps. Thus, the above result does not yield autonomous dynamical systems, even when the number of neurons P exceeds the cardinality of the dataset N . Nevertheless, by analogy with the results in the previous section on shallow $\mathrm { N N s } ,$ one might expect similar outcomes to be achievable with autonomous (time-independent) NN vector fields.

We next study the autonomous NODE model, corresponding to $L = 0$ switches:

$$\dot {x} (t) = W \sigma (A x (t) + b), \qquad t \in (0, T), \tag {3.9}$$

in which, now, $( W , A , b ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times P } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P \times d } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P }$ are time-independent.

We now relax the objective and prove the approximate simultaneous controllability property.

Theorem 3.4 (Approximate simultaneous control for autonomous NODEs, [5]). Let $d \ge 2 , \ N \ge 1$ and $T > 0$ be fixed. Given $\{ ( x _ { i } , y _ { i } ) \} _ { i \in [ N ] } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ with $x _ { i } \neq x _ { j }$ , for all $P \geq 1$ there exists a constant control $( W , A , b ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times P } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P \times d } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { P }$ such that the autonomous NODE flow map $\Phi _ { T }$ generated by (3.9) satisfies

$$\sup _ {i \in [ N ]} | y _ {i} - \Phi_ {T} (x _ {i}) | \leq C \frac {\log_ {2} (\kappa)}{\kappa^ {1 / d}}, \tag {3.10}$$
