with $p _ { i } ( k ) ~ \triangleq ~ \operatorname* { P r } ( X _ { i } ( k ) ~ = ~ 1 ) ~ = ~ \operatorname* { \mathbb { E } } X _ { i } ( k )$ representing the (total) probability of node i being infected at time k. Furthermore, by the nonlinear state transformation

$$s _ {i} (k) \triangleq - \log (1 - p _ {i} (k)) \in [ 0, \infty ],$$

proposed in [21], the equivalent TransNN representation of (7) is then given by

$$s _ {i} (k + 1) = \sum_ {j \in N _ {i} ^ {\circ k}} \Psi (w _ {i j} ^ {k}, s _ {j} (k)), \quad i \in [ n ] \tag {8}$$

with the TlogSigmoid activation function [21]

$$\Psi (w, x) = - \log (1 - w + w e ^ {- x}) \tag {9}$$

with the activation level $w \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ and the input signal $x \in [ 0 , + \infty ]$ . Interested readers are referred to [21], [23] for detailed properties of the TransNN model and its connections with standard neural network models.

Thus, in the stochastic model with $2 ^ { n }$ state configurations described in (1), imposing the independence assumptions (A3) and (A4) together with (A1) leads to the virus spread model in (7) and the equivalent TransNN model (8).

Remark 1 (Discussions on Assumption (A4)) Depending on the actual paths of infection over the networks, the assumption (A4) may not hold. There are two ways to get around the assumption on independence in (A4). One way to break the potential dependence among $\{ X _ { i } ( k ) = 1 , i \in [ n ] \}$ is to observe the states at each time step (i.e. setting the terminal time in (A4) to $T \ = \ 1$ and re-initializing the dynamics at every time step with the new observations). The disadvantage of this approach is that we need to observe or simulate the states at each time step. A similar idea is used in the context of Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) [26] if we interpret the time steps in the current paper as layers of bipartite graphs in RBMs. Alternatively, we can sample points from the joint probability distribution to approximate and simulate the evolutions of the empirical distributions. The disadvantage is that we must track the evolution of the empirical joint distribution over a state space with 2n possible state configurations at each time.

Both approaches may incur significant computational burden, especially when the underlying network is large and complex. Instead, the model in (7) can predict approximately the infection probabilities with lower complexity, using only the infection status (or probabilities) at the initial time. In fact, such an approximate model enables the control with low complexity, which will be presented later in Section V. ✷
