$$
\begin{array}{l} \inf _ {\mu \in \mathcal {M} (\Omega)} \| \mu \| _ {\mathrm{TV}}, \\ \text {(PR} _ {0}) \\ \text {s.t.} \int_ {\Omega} \sigma (\langle a, x _ {i} \rangle + b) d \mu (a, b) = y _ {i},   \forall i \in [ N ]; \end{array}
$$

and

$$
\begin{array}{c} \inf _ {\mu \in \mathcal {M} (\Omega)} \| \mu \| _ {\mathrm{TV}}, \\ \text {(PR} _ {\epsilon}) \\ \text {s.t.} \left| \int_ {\Omega} \sigma (\langle a, x _ {i} \rangle + b) d \mu (a, b) - y _ {i} \right| \leq \epsilon ,   \forall i \in [ N ], \end{array}
$$

where $\mathcal { M } ( \Omega )$ represents the space of Radon measures on Ω, and $\| \cdot \| _ { \mathrm { T V } }$ denotes the total variation norm. These new relaxed optimization problems are formulated in the space of measures, under linear identity or inequality constraints, and they are clearly convex.

Before proceeding, we describe the link between the original NN ansatz $f _ { \mathrm { s h a l l o w } }$ and the one implicitly involved in this relaxed representation above, namely:

$$f _ {\text { relaxed }} (x, \mu) = \int_ {\Omega} \sigma (\langle a, x \rangle + b) d \mu (a, b). \tag {2.4}$$

The function $f _ { \mathrm { s h a l l o w } }$ defined in (2.1) coincides with the representation in (2.4) when the measure $\mu$ is atomic

$$\mu = \sum_ {j \in [ P ]} w _ {j} \delta_ {(a _ {j}, b _ {j})}. \tag {2.5}$$

In fact, $f _ { \mathrm { r e l a x e d } }$ in (2.4) can be viewed as the continuous limit of (2.1), obtained when the number of neurons tends to infinity and the discrete sum becomes a dense integral.

Given that exact representation is ensured with the primal discrete NN ansatz, the relaxed ansatz (2.4) inherits this property. Accordingly, both the primal discrete problem (with $P \geq N )$ and the convexified relaxation admit solutions. While the convex nature of the relaxed formulations suggests greater tractability, this advantage is offset by the fact that the relaxation operates in an infinite-dimensional space.

A natural question is whether the minimizers of the relaxed problem can be used to recover minimizers of the original finite-dimensional formulation.
