The bound (3.11) is immediately useful. Indeed, whatever $\alpha > 0$ is, any global minimizer of $J _ { \alpha }$ , that we denote by $( a ^ { * } , b ^ { * } , w ^ { * } )$ , will necessarily satisfy the bound

$$\left| \left| \left(a ^ {*}, b ^ {*}, w ^ {*}\right) \right| \right| _ {B V (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {2 d + 1})} ^ {2} \leq K. \tag {3.14}$$

This is simply because

$$\left| \left| \left(a ^ {*}, b ^ {*}, w ^ {*}\right) \right| \right| _ {B V (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {2 d + 1})} ^ {2} \leq \frac {1}{\alpha} J _ {\alpha} \left(a ^ {*}, b ^ {*}, w ^ {*}\right) \leq \frac {1}{\alpha} J _ {\alpha} (a, b, w) \leq K, \tag {3.15}$$

$( a , b , w )$ being the controls and parameter values we have built, for which, due to the simultaneous control property, the empirical risk $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { i \in [ N ] } | \Phi _ { T } ( x _ { i } ) - y _ { i } | ^ { 2 } } \end{array}$ vanishes and the bound (3.11) holds.

This yields a priori insight for training via numerical optimization, a fact that applies not only to NODE architectures, but for all models we might employ and, in particular, to those discussed in these notes.

3.4 Control of measures. Generative modeling and generalization are among the most impactful practical applications of NODEs. The goal is to learn the underlying data distribution of a given random variable, typically through sampling from a learned distribution and supervised learning, to generate new synthetic data or accurately assign labels to unseen samples.

Normalizing flows [32] are among the most effective methodologies for this purpose. In these models, a transformation is learned that maps a simple probability distribution, such as a uniform or standard Gaussian, into a complex target distribution, known only through a training dataset. Synthetic data can then be generated by sampling points from the simple distribution and applying the learned transformation.

NODEs play a key role in this paradigm, offering a new framework in which the flow is described as a continuous-time dynamic. To achieve this, the continuous model is reformulated in terms of transport equations, leveraging the classical relationship between (3.3), seen as the ODE of characteristics, and the corresponding hyperbolic transport PDE or continuity equation, i.e., the neural transport equation:
