$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {\partial}{\partial s _ {i}} \Psi (m _ {\ell i} ^ {k} (u _ {\ell} (k)), s _ {i} (k)) = \\ \frac {m _ {\ell i} ^ {k} (u _ {\ell} (k)) e ^ {- s _ {i} (k)}}{1 - m _ {\ell i} ^ {k} (u _ {\ell} (k)) + m _ {\ell i} ^ {k} (u _ {\ell} (k)) e ^ {- s _ {i} (k)}} \in [ 0, m _ {\ell i} ^ {k} (u _ {\ell} (k)) ]. \\ \end{array}
$$

The optimal control action can be checked node by node without loss of generality since control actions of different nodes affect the Hamiltonian in (20) in a decoupled way. Moreover, it is easy to verify that the Hamiltonian $H ( k )$ in (20) is convex in $u _ { i } ( k )$ for all $i \in [ n ]$ and $k \geq 0$ . Thus, the optimal relaxed control action exists and lies either on the boundary or in the interior. Since the original control action $u _ { i } ( k ) \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ is binary, an (approximate) optimal control is determined by

$$\Delta H _ {i} (k) = H (k) | _ {u _ {i} (k) = 1} - H (k) | _ {u _ {i} (k) = 0} \tag {22}$$

which is explicitly given by

$$\Delta H _ {i} (k) = 1 - \sum_ {j \in N _ {i} ^ {\circ k}} \lambda_ {j} (k + 1) \log \frac {1 - w _ {i j} ^ {k} \beta + w _ {i j} ^ {k} \beta e ^ {- s _ {j} (k)}}{1 - w _ {i j} ^ {k} + w _ {i j} ^ {k} e ^ {- s _ {j} (k)}}.$$

We note that (i) the log term in the equation above is negative and (ii) the adjoint process is non-negative based on its dynamics. Thus, $\Delta H _ { i } ( k )$ could be either positive or negative, and the (approximate) optimal control rule that minimizes the Hamiltonian can be given by

$$
u _ {i} ^ {*} (k) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1, & \Delta H _ {i} (k) <   0 \\ 0, & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {23}
$$

To verify that the binary control actions generated using (23) actually minimize the Hamiltonian, we compare the gradient evaluations $\frac { \partial H ( k ) } { \partial u _ { i } ( k ) } \vert _ { u _ { i } ( k ) = 0 }$ )) |ui(k)=0 and ∂ui(k) |ui(k)=1 along $\frac { \partial H ( k ) } { \partial u _ { i } ( k ) } \vert _ { u _ { i } ( k ) = 1 }$ the trajectories of states and adjoint states generated using the control (23): if both gradients share the same sign, the convexity of the Hamiltonian $H ( k )$ in $u _ { i } ( k )$ implies that the control action that minimizes the Hamiltonian lies on the boundary and hence given by (23).

The optimal control generated above only provides candidates of optimal control solutions since the Minimum Principle only provides necessary conditions for optimality. To demonstrate that the solution is globally optimal, additional verification procedures are required.
