We first prove the result for transformers with the hardmax self-attention formulation. The extension to the softmax case requires one additional step: the inclusion of nonresidual ResNet layers to guarantee exact representation, since the intrinsic regularizing effect of the softmax makes this otherwise difficult to achieve.

Our exact interpolation results also provide explicit training bounds in the spirit of Subsection 3.3.

4.3 Conclusions. Our analysis establishes self-attention as a natural clustering mechanism in transformer architectures. By interpreting attention dynamics through a geometric, particle-based framework, we showed that tokens asymptotically converge to clustered equilibria characterized by a finite set of leaders. This clustering reduces the effective complexity of the representation problem and enables the design of transformers that achieve exact sequence interpolation with explicit parameter bounds independent of input sequence length, but dependent on target sequence length. Altogether, these results provide a rigorous explanation of how self-attention improves efficiency in modern architectures, linking theoretical principles to the empirical success of transformers.

5 Related topics and perspectives. We outline related topics, each of which constitutes a subject worthy of investigation, rich in challenging open problems. Our topical selection is necessarily limited and reflects themes influenced by our recent work. These, together with many others, form a fascinating landscape to be explored with the overarching goal of merging classical methodologies in computational and applied mathematics with those inspired by ML. For further details, we refer to [46].

• Time Reversal in Diffusion Models for Generative AI. The ideas and methods developed in Section 2 can also be applied to the time inversion of the heat equation (see [27]), building on the idea of reducing its infinite-dimensional, highly irreversible dynamics to a finite-dimensional system that tracks only a finite number of solution moments. The time inversion of heat processes is also a key ingredient in modern generative AI techniques, a fascinating connection that we briefly highlight here.

The classical Li–Yau inequality ([23]) for positive solutions $u \geq 0$ of the d-dimensional heat equation,
