# 5. Conclusions

We have shown in Theorem 3 above that the question of R. Shorten et al published in [4] has a negative answer: there exist linear switched systems with four states, in four dimensions, for which constant and periodic switching laws can produce only trajectories which converge exponentially to zero, but such that this linear switched system is not GUAS. We note that by a recently-announced result of J. Bochi and the author [12], such counterexamples cannot exist in dimension three or lower, so the counterexample presented here is of the lowest dimension possible.

During the proof of Theorem 3 we used only those properties of the matrices $A _ { 0 }$ and $A _ { 1 }$ which were explicitly stated in Theorem 2, and we also made no significant use of the fact that those matrices were specifically two-dimensional. 1 In particular, if a pair of Metzler matrices $A _ { 0 } , A _ { 1 } \in M _ { d } ( \mathbb { R } )$ could be found which also satisfy the conclusions of Theorem 2 then the same arguments would result in a set of four $d ^ { 2 } \times d ^ { 2 }$ Metzler matrices which define a linear switched system which is Lyapunov stable, is not GUAS, and has the property that all trajectories defined by periodic switching laws converge exponentially to zero. Examples considered in [13, 14] suggest, but do not prove, that a pair of Metzler matrices with these properties is likely to exist in dimension three. On the other hand, by applying the lifting arguments of [15] to the matrices of Theorem 2 we anticipate that a pair of Metzler matrices with the same essential properties could be constructed in sufficiently high dimension. Consequently we conjecture that counterexamples to Question 1 with the additional property of being Metzler matrices ought to exist in sufficiently high dimension, and perhaps in particular might exist in dimension nine.

The examples presented in this note leave open the matter of whether or not counterexamples to Question 1 can exist which have fewer than four switching states. We see no reason in principle why examples with two or three switching states should not exist, but we are not currently able to resolve this question in either direction.
