# B. Right Invariant Extended Kalman Filter

The Invariant Extended Kalman Filter (IEKF), introduced in [21][18], is a variant of the EKF that exploits the Lie groups structure. The IEKF computes the gain independently of the estimated state. This characteristic allows the IEKF to maintain local stability properties, which the EKF does not possess[18]. The general form of the stochastic dynamics system and right-invariant measurement is given as follows:

$$\dot {\chi} _ {t} = f (\chi_ {t}, u _ {t}) + \chi_ {t} w _ {t} ^ {\wedge} \tag {6a}Y _ {k} = \chi_ {k} ^ {- 1} b _ {k} + V _ {k} \tag {6b}$$

The k is discrete-time, such that $t = k T$ , where $T$ is the sampling period. The $f$ is the continuous-time dynamics. The u is an input and the w is a continuous white Gaussian noise with a covariance matrix $Q _ { k }$ . The b is a known vector and $V _ { k }$ is the vector that contains the white Gaussian noise $v _ { k }$ with a covariance matrix $N _ { k }$ . The RIEKF is defined as:

$$\hat {\chi} _ {k} ^ {-} = f ^ {d} (\hat {\chi} _ {k - 1} ^ {+}, u _ {k}), \text { Propagation } \tag {7a}
\hat {\chi} _ {k} ^ {+} = \text { Exp } \left(K _ {k} \left( \begin{array}{c} s ^ {1} (\hat {\chi} _ {k} Y _ {k} ^ {1} - b _ {k} ^ {1}) \\ \vdots \\ s ^ {N} (\hat {\chi} _ {k} Y _ {k} ^ {N} - b _ {k} ^ {N}) \end{array} \right)\right) \hat {\chi} _ {k} ^ {-}, \text { Update } \tag {7b}
$$

The superscript $( \cdot ) ^ { - }$ denotes the predicted (prior) value from the dynamics system, while $( \cdot ) ^ { + }$ denotes the posterior value after incorporating the residual from the measurement model. The superscript $\hat { \left( \cdot \right) }$ denotes the estimated value, distinguishing it from the true value. The function $f ^ { d }$ is the discretization of $f .$ The $s ^ { i }$ is a selection matrix for the i-th measurement model that appropriately reduces unnecessary dimensions. The matrix $K _ { k }$ is an optimal gain matrix. The gain $K _ { k }$ is computed through the following procedure.

Consider two distinct trajectories $\chi _ { t }$ and $\hat { \chi } _ { t }$ . The rightinvariant error is defined as

$$\eta_ {t} ^ {R} = \hat {\chi} _ {t} \chi_ {t} ^ {- 1} \in G \tag {8}$$

If the deterministic dynamics in Eq. (6a) satisfy group-affine condition[12]

$$f \left(\chi_ {1} \chi_ {2}, u _ {t}\right) = f \left(\chi_ {1}, u _ {t}\right) \chi_ {2} + \chi_ {1} f \left(\chi_ {2}, u _ {t}\right) - \chi_ {1} f \left(I _ {d}, u _ {t}\right) \chi_ {2}, \tag {9}$$
