This duality between explicitly constructing parameters to demonstrate existence (with quantitative guarantees) and obtaining them computationally through optimization is not unique to NODEs for supervised learning. It also arises in classical control problems for both ODEs and PDEs. In such settings, the first approach emphasizes theoretical guarantees, including the existence of controls and the design of control strategies, while the second addresses the practical task of numerically computing optimal controls. Insights gained from the theoretical approach often provide valuable bounds and guidance for the numerical one. This interplay was, for example, analyzed in the context of approximate controllability of the heat equation in [12].

The same applies in this context. To illustrate this important duality, let us go back to the simplest NODE in (3.6) endowed with one neuron, $P = 1$ . Fix a time horizon T and a consistent dataset $\{ ( x _ { i } , y _ { i } ) \} _ { i \in [ N ] } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ . We aim to build controls $( w ( t ) , a ( t ) , b ( t ) )$ such that solutions of (3.6) map $x _ { i }$ to $y _ { i }$ for each $i \in [ N ]$ in time $t = T$ . We have shown that this can be done by constructive methods that allow us to estimate the complexity of the needed controls, in terms of the number of switching instances. Assume that the norms of the constructed controls are tracked carefully, as our methods do, to get, for some $K > 0$ , a bound of the form

$$\left| \left| (a, b, w) \right| \right| _ {B V (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {2 d + 1})} ^ {2} \leq K. \tag {3.11}$$

In practice, these constructions are typically disregarded, and training is instead carried out by minimizing a cost functional of the form

$$\min _ {(a, b, w) \in B V (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {2 d + 1})} J _ {\alpha} (a, b, w), \tag {3.12}J _ {\alpha} (a, b, w) = \alpha | | (a, b, w) | | _ {B V (0, T; \mathbb {R} ^ {2 d + 1})} ^ {2} + \sum_ {i \in [ N ]} | \Phi_ {T} (x _ {i}) - y _ {i} | ^ {2}. \tag {3.13}$$

Here $\alpha > 0$ plays the role of a regularization or penalization parameter. The existence of global minimizers of $J _ { \alpha }$ in (3.13) is easy to prove by the Direct Method of the Calculus of Variations [7]. Note that the penalization term has been chosen in the $\dot { B V } ( 0 , T ; \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 d + 1 } )$ )-norm to avoid compactness issues and to assure that the piecewise constant controls built above are admissible.
