# I. INTRODUCTION

Epidemic models are important in predicting and mitigating epidemic spreads, and many different epidemic models have been proposed and analyzed (see [1]–[6]). For epidemic spread models over networks, a first thorough system-theoretic analysis was presented in [7], where the network characterizes transmission probability rates among different population groups. Virus spread processes on random directed graphs were analyzed in [8], and virus spread models on networks characterized by degree distributions were studied in [9]. Mean field approximations for continuous-time SIS virus spread models on networks have been developed in [4], [10]– [12], where mean field states approximate the fractions of the infected in nodal populations. Continuous-time contact processes can also model epidemic spreads (see e.g. [5]).

Discrete-time SIS models over networks, closely related to the current paper, have been investigated by various researchers. Discrete-time SIS models over networks with homogeneous transmission probabilities have been proposed for identifying threshold values for epidemics spread in [13] and [14]. The nonlinear discrete-time SIS model in [14] provides an upper bound on the probability of infection

\*This work is supported in part by NSERC (Canada) Grant RGPIN-2024-06612 (SG), Simons-Berkeley Research Fellowship (SG) and NSERC (Canada) Grant RGPIN- 2019-05336 (PEC).

Shuang Gao is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnique Montreal & GERAD, Montreal, QC, Canada. Email: shuang.gao@polymtl.ca. Peter E. Caines is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McGill University & GERAD, Montreal, QC, Canada. Email: peterc@cim.mcgill.ca.

The authors would like to thank Christian Borgs, George Cantwell, Jorge Velasco-Hernández, Xin Guo, Minyi Huang, Aditya Mahajan, Charlotte Govignon, and reviewers for their helpful feedback.
