To effectively capture contextual relationships within sequences, the transformer architecture is often employed in the state-of-the-art LLMs. Transformers, which can be viewed as an extension of ResNets, incorporate selfattention layers that exploit the sequential structure of the data. Heuristically, these layers model the “context” of each sequence by dynamically weighting and mixing its components based on pairwise similarity.

Motivated by their empirical success, a rigorous theoretical framework for understanding the role and mechanisms of self-attention is beginning to emerge. Early work in this direction includes [31, 36], which interprets the elements of an input sequence as interacting particles, where the interaction is mediated by a kernel derived from the self-attention mechanism. This particle-based viewpoint is further developed in [15, 8, 16], where it is used to establish asymptotic clustering results for attention-only transformers with shared weights.

Our work [1] adds to this growing literature by providing precise mathematical results that explain the role of self-attention as a clustering mechanism, within a simplified yet expressive class of attention-only transformers which we refer to as hardmax self-attention dynamics.

Such dynamics are parameterized by a symmetric positive definite matrix $A \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d \times d }$ and a scalar parameter $\alpha > 0$ . They act on components $z _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ of a sequence $Z = ( z _ { 1 } , \ldots , z _ { n } ) \in ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } ) ^ { n }$ , called tokens in the ML literature. Given initial token values $Z ( 0 ) = ( z _ { 1 } ( 0 ) , \ldots , z _ { n } ( 0 ) )$ , and denoting by Z(k) the sequence of tokens in layer k , they evolve according to the following discrete-time dynamics:

$$z _ {i} (k + 1) = z _ {i} (k) + \frac {\alpha}{1 + \alpha} \frac {1}{| \mathcal {C} _ {i} (k) |} \sum_ {\ell \in \mathcal {C} _ {i} (k)} \Big (z _ {\ell} (k) - z _ {i} (k) \Big), \tag {4.1a}\mathcal {C} _ {i} (k) = \left\{j \in [ n ]: \left\langle z _ {j} (k), A z _ {i} (k) \right\rangle = \max _ {\ell \in [ n ]} \left\langle z _ {\ell} (k), A z _ {i} (k) \right\rangle \right\}, \tag {4.1b}$$

where $| { \mathcal { C } } _ { i } ( k ) |$ denotes the cardinality of the index set $\mathcal { C } _ { i } ( k )$ .
