Among the available methods, the dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) [15, 16, 17, 18] and its methodological variants have recently gained attention due to their ability to extract dominant dynamic features directly from experimental or numerical data, with small or no assumption on the underlying physics, providing interpretable, low-dimensional representations of nonlinear systems.
DMD can be classified somewhere between a black-box and a grey-box approach for reduced-order modeling.
With the former, it shares the data-driven and equation-free structure like other machine learning techniques, such as RNN, LSTM, and BiLSTM.
However, DMD-based methods retain a certain level of interpretability thanks to the linear nature of the model.
DMD can be considered a method to build a finite-dimensional approximation of the Koopman operator [19], which, in turn, describes a nonlinear dynamical system as a possibly infinite-dimensional linear system [20].
The reduced-order linear model is obtained by DMD from a small set of multidimensional snapshots of the dynamical system under analysis.
The DMD operates equally on measured or simulated data and obtains the model from them with a direct procedure that, from a machine learning perspective, constitutes the training phase.
Its data-driven nature, the fast, non-iterative training, and data-lean property contributed to the popularity of DMD as a reduced-order modeling technique in several fields, such as fluid dynamics and aeroacoustics [21, 15, 22, 23, 24], epidemiology [25], neuroscience [26], finance [27], etc.
DMD was applied for the first time to the forecasting of ship dynamics in [28], in which the proof of concept of short-term forecasting of trajectories, motions, and loads of maneuvering ships in waves was given.
In [29], the approach was systematically assessed on the same test cases and first extended to the use of Augmented-DMD by augmenting the system state with lagged copies of the original states and their derivatives.
This approach enabled the modeling of memory effects in the system, improving accuracy over the tested cases compared to the standard formulation.
[30] systematically explored the use of Hankel-DMD (HDMD) for short-term forecasting of ship motions, highlighting its potential for real-time prediction and control applications, and digital twinning.
