# 5 Solution guarantees

Finally, we establish when a CPA or quadratic storage function is assured to be found for a locally dissipative system, as well as establishing when a combined quadratic and CPA storage function can be found. It is important to note that the QSR dissipativity holds with some amount of strictness. Theorems 12 and 13 use error bounds to ensure the validity of a QSR dissipativity characterization. Therefore, the solution found by Problems 1 and 2 will always be conservative at some level.

Theorem 15 Consider Problem 1. Let $\mathcal { G } _ { \Omega }$ be locally QSR dissipative on a triangulable set, Ω, with ${ \bf Q } { \preceq } { - } \textstyle { \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( \Pi _ { 2 } { + } \Pi _ { 3 } ) ^ { - 1 }$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \mathbf { \partial } \cdot \hat { \mathbf { R } } { \preceq } - \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \Pi _ { 1 } ^ { - 1 } { + } \eta \mathbf { I } ) } \end{array}$ , where $\eta ~ \geq ~ \hat { s } n \sqrt { p m } \theta _ { i } c _ { i , j } ~ + ~ \hat { J } _ { i , j } ^ { 2 }$ for all $i \in \mathbb { Z } _ { 1 } ^ { m \tau }$ and $j \in$ $\mathbb { Z } _ { 0 } ^ { n }$ . Let there exist a storage function $\phi ~ \in ~ \mathcal { C } ^ { 2 }$ for which (5) holds in Ω, where $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { s u p } _ { x \in \Omega } \left. \nabla \phi \right. _ { 2 } \leq C } \end{array}$ and max $ , j \in \mathbb { Z } _ { 1 } ^ { n } , x \in \Omega \left| \left. { \frac { \partial \phi } { \partial x ^ { ( i ) } \partial x ^ { ( j ) } } } \right| _ { x } \right| \leq A$ for some $C , A \ < \ \infty$ . Then, Problem 1 will find a valid CPA storage function over $\Omega f o r \ ( 1 )$ using a finite number of simplices.

This proof parallels [7, Theorem 3.3], which determines when a CPA Lyapunov function can be found for an exponentially stable system, by bounded the error between the true Lyapunov function and the CPA Lyapunov function. Here, we instead consider the QSR dissipativity condition (5) rather than Lyapunov stability conditions – bounding the error between the system’s true storage function and the CPA storage function. This requires consideration of a matrix inequality rather than a scalar inequality.

PROOF. For some triangulation, T , of Ω, let t¯ be the maximum length of any simplex in T . On each simplex $\sigma _ { i } ,$ , define

$$
\bar {\phi} _ {i} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} \phi (x _ {i, 1}) - \phi (x _ {i, 0}) \\ \vdots \\ \phi (x _ {i, n}) - \phi (x _ {i, 0}) \end{array} \right],
$$
