Another challenge arises from certain forms of dynamics interdependency in multi-agent systems. Specifically, rather than acting based on its own state and those of its neighbors, each agent cannot make its decisions or determine its actions without explicitly knowing those of its neighbors, while these neighbors face the same dilemma simultaneously (see, e.g., [16]–[21]). Existing work has sought to address this type of challenge through approaches such as modeling neighbor dynamics as bounded disturbance within a robust control framework [16], [17], zero-order-hold approximation of neighbor dynamics [18], centralized aggregation followed by decentralized approximation [19], and iterative negotiation toward a coherent solution [20], [21]. Although these methods have enabled practical advances, their applicability often involves trade-offs among performance conservatism, local communication requirements, computational complexity, and provable convergence guarantees. An exact decentralization mechanism without reliance on simplifying approximations or communication with neighbors has remained elusive.

In this paper, we aim to develop a general multi-agent control framework, which can address the following three independent challenges, all while preserving convergence guarantees without relying on any simplifying approximations:

• enabling decentralized control synthesis,   
• handling time-varying objective functions, and   
• accommodating arbitrary underlying graph topologies (i.e., undirected graph, directed graph, mixed graph, or piecewise-constant graph).

The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows.

This work was supported in part by the U.S. Army Research Lab through ARL DCIST CRA W911NF-17-2-0181, and in part by the NSERC Discovery under Grant RGPIN-2023-03703.   
1Ruoyu Lin and Magnus Egerstedt are with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697, USA. Email: {rlin10, magnus}@uci.edu   
2Gennaro Notomista is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, Canada. Email: gennaro.notomista@uwaterloo.ca
