2) Exoskeleton: NESM-γ [8], [9], [14], depicted in Fig. 4, is a powered shoulder-elbow exoskeleton using series-elastic actuators to assist upper-limb movement. The exoskeleton features a passive kinematic chain to maintain alignment of the robot with the human shoulder joint, and four active revolute joints driven by series elastic actuators: three at the shoulder, for adduction/abduction, flexion/extension, and intra/extra rotation, and one at the elbow for flexion/extension. The control unit of the exoskeleton comprises a real-time controller, sbRIO-9651 (National Instruments—NI, Austin, TX, USA), endowed with a Xilinx Zynq-7020 System on Chip, combining a real-time (RT) processor and a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA). The high-level control runs at 100 Hz on the RT unit, while the low-level control runs at 1 kHz on the FPGA unit [14]. A LabVIEW Graphical User Interface (GUI) allows online interaction with the RT level, to set operator’s commands and control parameters (e.g., the arm gravity compensation tuning). A Nano-43 force/torque (F/T) sensor (ATI Industrial Automation, USA) is integrated by means of an adjustable mechanical interface connecting the exoskeleton to the user’s forearm to measure interaction forces and torques. Force and torque measurements are mapped into elbow interaction torque, according to the subject-specific distance between the sensor and the elbow joint. To focus on cooperative control and redundant actuation, in this study, the passive joints are mechanically locked and the shoulder joints are controlled in a configuration that holds the upper arm in a vertical position, while the hybrid FES-exoskeleton assists at the elbow level, as shown in Fig. 4.
