Quantifying the uncertainty associated with the prediction of a ROM has become increasingly relevant for data-driven modeling, and a key characteristic for their usage in the context of, e.g., multifidelity analysis and optimization. Few approaches for introducing uncertainty quantification in DMD analysis have been presented in the literature so far. [35] first introduced a probabilistic model by modeling the measurement noise as Gaussian and treating the dynamic modes and eigenvalues as random variables, whose posterior distributions were inferred through Gibbs sampling. Later, [36] presented the bagging optimized-DMD, where Breiman’s statistical resampling strategy was applied to training data, generating ensembles of DMD models and estimating confidence intervals for the extracted modes and eigenvalues. A similar approach was used in [34] and called frequentist approach: several training signals were used, producing an ensemble of HDMDc models and estimating confidence intervals for time-resolved predictions of ship motions. [31] considered for the first time the uncertainty arising from the selection of HDMD and HDMDc hyperparameters: the length of the training sequence and the number of time-lagged copies of the state were separately considered as probabilistic variables with uniform distributions within a suitable range. Monte Carlo sampling is applied to obtain an ensemble of predictions forming a posterior distribution. This concept, referred to as Bayesian, has been further developed in [30, 32, 34, 33], where all the method hyperparameters are considered stochastic variables at once.
