To overcome these limitations, our previous work [9] introduced a k-hop Distributed Prescribed Performance Observer (k-hop DPPO) for homogeneous, disturbance-free MAS, enabling each agent to estimate the state of agents that are two—or more—hops away using only 1-hop communication. While this approach guarantees predefined estimation performance, it relies on network-dependent gain tuning and prior knowledge of input estimation error bounds, which are often difficult to determine in large-scale or complex networks and usually require centralized information. Moreover, it is formulated for homogeneous disturbance-free systems which limits its applicability to realistic heterogeneous scenarios.

Motivated by these challenges and inspired by Prescribed Performance Control (PPC) [11], we propose decentralized k-hop Prescribed Performance State and Input Observers (k-hop PPSO and k-hop PPIO) for heterogeneous MAS subject to bounded disturbances. The proposed observers enable each agent to estimate the state and input of agents located two to k hops away, while ensuring that the estimation errors satisfy predefined performance specifications set at the design stage. Unlike conventional distributed observers [7]– [10], the proposed framework is fully decentralized, relying solely on local (1-hop) communication without requiring any global network information, input bounds, or assumptions of homogeneous agent dynamics. This purely local interaction ensures scalability and facilitates deployment in large heterogeneous networks. Moreover, the prescribed performance formulation inherently guarantees robustness against bounded disturbances and model uncertainties, ensuring desired transient and steady-state behavior of the estimation errors. Beyond the observer design, we identify conditions under which the state observer can be simplified by removing the k-hop PPIO. Finally, we show that feedback controllers ensuring set-ISS stability of the closed-loop system can preserve their control objectives, with an arbitrarily small worst-case error, even when nonlocal state information is replaced by locally estimated counterparts.
