# 1. Introduction

Output-only strategies in modern dynamical system monitoring, using response-only sensors to track the inputs, the parameters, and the dynamic states of the system, attract the attention for two main reasons. The rst is that engineers try to extract as much information as possible from the available data. The practical reason is that data acquisition instrumentation (sensors, actuators, conditioners etc.) are cost-ineective, space-consuming, prone to faults or damage [1, 2] and, in the case of a real-time monitoring, require an expert team to work continuously on them.

The second reason is that, in some circumstances, the input cannot be measured or the measurement of the input is more unreliable than the dynamic state measurement. For instance, there is not a reliable means of accurate measure the trac and wind load on large structural systems.

For both reasons, developments of data fusion and system identication algorithms with maximum information extraction should be introduced from possible response-only sensor networks to monitor the dynamic systems, detect damage, and potentially provide a reliable damage prognosis.

Along these lines, many authors have proposed procedures to tackle the unknown input problem (i.e. [38]). The vast majority of those methods however, assume known system parameters, a fact that is in opposition to the damage detection philosophy.

Towards this need, Dertimanis et al. [1] proposed a successive Bayesian ltering framework to address the joint input-parameter-state estimation problem. The method successfully identied the linear systems using also limited output information. According to the authors though, a more physically meaningful process for adjusting the covariance matrices of the adopted ctitious equations needs to be explored in order to support, if not substitute, the L-curve regularization procedure.

Castiglione et al. [9] proposed a time-varying auto-regressive model for the unknown inputs, and develop a strategy to simultaneously estimate them along with the parameters. However, the authors stated that due to the low frequency drift in the estimated input, displacement responses could not be estimated satisfactorily.
