Maes et al. [10] proposed a linerazation for the adopted system model around the current state, yielding an algorithm similar to the extended Kalman lter. Though the method was applied successfully to linear systems, the implementation of the Jacobian derivative may have undesirable consequences in a real large system or, more so, to highly nonlinear systems.

Lei et al. [11] proposed a recursive nonlinear least squares strategy for the unknown input, within the unscented Kalman lter (UKF) concept. Nonetheless, the nonlinear least squares concept can possibly lead to ineective noise ltering, and this may be the reason why the introduced state and input estimation diverges more and more as the vibration continues.

Song [12] proposed several versions of a minimum variance unbiased UKF with direct feedthrough, and the methodology was successful. The author though examined only inputs that are incorporated into the process error.

Lastly, oine system identication techniques without any input information have been developed [1316], but apart from the parameter estimation they are often unable to provide the dynamic state and the input estimation.

In this work, the capabilities of a novel unscented Kalman lter is examined. The unknown input is estimated in two stages within each time step. Firstly, the predicted dynamic states and the system parameters provide an estimation of the input. Secondly, the corrected with measurements (updated) dynamic states and parameters provide a nal input estimation.

The proposed method can be used successfully for linear and nonlinear systems when a zero or a non-zero known input exists. Displacement, velocity, and acceleration signals are recommended for a full system estimation, while a data fusion methodology may relax this assumption. However this is not mandatory as it will be demonstrated using a sensitivity analysis.

Here, Jacobian derivatives, least square introductions, nonphysical propagation processes, or state estimation sacrices will not be needed.
