# 1 Introduction

Input-output (IO) stability theory is an important tool in robust control. It uses a compositional approach to stability analysis – that is, the closed loop IO stability of a network depends on the coarse, open loop IO characterizations of each individual subsystem [19,31]. This enables flexibility when addressing different types of subsystems – linear, nonlinear, time-varying, etc – with the additional benefit that IO characterizations can be selected that are robust to various sources of uncertainty. But therein lies the challenge: how do we find a valid IO characterization? For nonlinear systems, determining the IO characterization is an involved and, often, model specific process. For nonlinear, control affine systems, this work provides a comprehensive method to determine one such IO characterization: local QSR dissipativity, which encompasses local versions of a range of well-known IO characterizations, including passivity [4], L2 gain [28], conic sectors [34], and more [29].

For linear systems, we can establish IO properties through frequency-domain analysis [4], solving LMIs that arise from Hamilton Jacobi Inequalities (HJIs) [9], or data-driven analysis [15]. While IO theory takes an operator theoretic approach to dynamical systems analysis [34,31,19], the alternative state-space perspective on QSR dissipativity from [32,11] provides an avenue for analysis by linking a systems internal and supplied energy through a so-called storage function. For linear systems, this relationship led to the celebrated Kalman-Yakubovich-Popov (KYP) Lemma [4], which provides necessary and sufficient conditions for dissipativity. The KYP Lemma equates dissipativity with the existence of a positive, semi-definite, quadratic storage function, which can be found by solving LMIs via optimization. Analogous to linear systems, dissipativity of a nonlinear, control affine system is equivalent to the existence of a positive semi-definite storage function [11,10]. However, because the storage function lacks a set functional form, there is no systematic way to find it, so modeldependent ad-hoc ingenuity is needed. As a result, much effort has been focused on developing model agnostic analysis methods for nonlinear systems.
