IO analysis of nonlinear systems requires synthesis of the system’s storage function that adheres to the associated HJI. The problem of IO analysis of nonlinear systems can be approached from an optimal control perspective – using dynamic programming (DP) schemes to approximate a system’s storage function [13,5]. However, [5] is limited to determining gain over a finite horizon, while [13] uses iterative methods that require a good initialization and do not always have convergence guarantees. Another approach is to transform the nonlinear system into an easier form for analysis [26,33]. For example, in [26], nonlinear systems are represented using Koopman operators so that analysis tools for linear systems can be used [26]; however, this method is only applicable in a limited region of the state space where the transformation is valid. On the other hand, transformations in [33] require specific classes of nonlinear systems.

Another common approach in IO analysis is to parameterize the storage function using a a polynomial function [25,27,21] and then learn the function parameters that adhere to the HJI via sum of squares (SOS) programming. While flexible, this method only applies to polynomial systems [25,27]. Further, it is limited to verification of IO properties [21] or uses non-convex optimization programs to determine IO properties [25], which may result in overly conservative system characterizations. SOS methods have since been extended to the data driven dissipativity characterizations [18], but do not give deterministic guarantees and require data on a system’s first and second derivative, which is often noisy.

Preliminary work tackled the special case of identifying gain of nonlinear systems by formulating the search for a CPA storage function as convex optimization problems [16,24]. Constraints were imposed on the storage function at each vertex of the triangulation to ensure certain properties, leveraging a similar process as in previous work on Lyapunov function synthesis [7,8]. We aim to expand upon this approach, admitting nonzero control affine terms where [16] did not, and examining QSR dissipativity instead of gain.
