# I. INTRODUCTION

Recent trends in automatic control highlight a growing reliance on data-based methods. Among them, the design of controllers directly from data—rooted in classical adaptive control [1]—has gained significant momentum. In particular, data-driven control [2] has become a central paradigm, inspired by the wave of results related to Willems et al.’s fundamental lemma [3] and fueled by the increasing availability of large datasets. This approach aims to map the available data into controllers via linear matrix inequalities (LMIs) or related optimization programs, leading to an end-to-end methodology that avoids any modeling or identification step.

In the discrete-time domain, two fundamental contributions to data-driven control are [4] and [5], focusing on linear time-invariant (LTI) systems. These works proposed LMI formulations based respectively on data-based closedloop system parameterizations and the data informativity framework. Later, data-driven LMIs particularly suited to noisy datasets have been developed from open-loop system parameterizations [2, 6, 7]. Notably, these approaches enable the enforcement of design specifications (e.g., closed-loop stability and H2/H∞ performance) for all systems consistent with the data. Further developments include approaches for linear quadratic regulation [8], partial model knowledge [9],

1A. Bosso, M. Borghesi, and G. Notarstefano are with the Department of Electrical, Electronic, and Information Engineering, University of Bologna, Italy. Email: {alessandro.bosso, m.borghesi, giuseppe.notarstefano}@unibo.it

2A. Iannelli is with the Institute for System Theory and Automatic Control, University of Stuttgart, Germany. Email: andrea.iannelli@ist.uni-stuttgart.de

3B. Yi is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Polytechnique Montreal and GERAD, Montr ´ eal, Canada. ´ bowen.yi@polymtl.ca

The research leading to these results has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation program under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Grant Agreement No. 101104404 - IMPACT4Mech.

time-varying systems [10], nonlinear systems [11], systems subject to input saturations [12], and output-feedback control based on the behavioral framework [13] or non-minimal realizations constructed from shifted input–output data [14].
