The MPC component ${ \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t } ^ { m }$ in Deep MPC is aware of the learning component $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ , therefore we need to design $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ before ${ \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t } ^ { m }$ . As depicted in Fig. 1 that the outermost layer of the neural network is updated at each time instant by keeping the inner layers fixed. The deep MPC approach allows the training of inner layers intermittently. Let $\hat { k } ^ { \mathrm { { t h } } }$ training of inner layers starts at the time instant $T _ { k }$ and $j ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ training finishes before the time instant $t _ { j }$ . We initialize $K _ { 0 }$ such that $\left\| K _ { 0 } ^ { ( i ) } \right\| \leqslant \bar { W } _ { i } ; i = 1 , \ldots , m .$ (0 For a given learning rate $0 < \theta < 1$ and for ?? ∈ $\{ t _ { j } + 1 , \dotsc , t _ { j + 1 } \}$ , we employ the following weight update law:

$$\bar {K} _ {t} = K _ {t - 1} + \frac {\theta}{\left\| \phi_ {j} (x _ {t - 1}) \right\| ^ {2}} \phi_ {j} (x _ {t - 1}) \left(g (x _ {t - 1}) ^ {\dagger} (x _ {t} - \bar {f} (x _ {t - 1}, u _ {t - 1} ^ {m}) \right. \tag {3}$$

where $g ( x _ { t - 1 } ) ^ { \dagger } = ( g ( x _ { t - 1 } ) ^ { \top } g ( x _ { t - 1 } ) ) ^ { - 1 } g ( x _ { t - 1 } ) ^ { \top }$ represents the pseudo-inverse of the left invertible matrix $g ( x _ { t - 1 } )$ . The above weight update law has been derived in [21] for structured uncertainties and has been used in [22] along with MPC. Notice that the first element in $\phi _ { j } ( \cdot )$ is one. Therefore, $\left\| \phi _ { j } ( x ) \right\| ^ { 2 } \geqslant 1$ 1 for all $\boldsymbol { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ and $j \in \mathbb { N } _ { 0 }$ , which avoids any possibility of division by zero. We employ the discrete projection method to ensure boundedness of $\dot { K } _ { t } ^ { ( i ) }$ for $i = 1 , \ldots , m$ , as follows:

$$
K _ {t} ^ {(i)} = \operatorname{Proj} \bar {K} _ {t} ^ {(i)} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \bar {K} _ {t} ^ {(i)} & \text { if } \left\| \bar {K} _ {t} ^ {(i)} \right\| \leqslant \bar {W} _ {i} \\ \frac {\bar {W} _ {i}}{\left\| \bar {K} _ {t} ^ {(i)} \right\|} \bar {K} _ {t} ^ {(i)} & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right. \tag {4}
$$

Algorithm 3 Transfer learning in the neural network for $t \in$ $[ t _ { j } , t _ { j + 1 } [$   
1: Input: $x_{t}, x_{t-1}, u_{t-1}^{m}, \bar{f}, \phi_{j}, \bar{W}_{i}$ for $i = 1, \ldots, m$ 2: Output: $K_{t}$ ▷ Weights of the output layer
3: update (3)
4: projection (4)
5: return $K_{t}$
