$$
\boldsymbol {\mathcal {E}} _ {L} := \left\{\Psi \in \mathbb {R} ^ {\mu \times (n + \mu)}: \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {\mu} \\ \Psi^ {\top} \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} N _ {L} \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {\mu} \\ \Psi^ {\top} \end{array} \right] \succeq 0 \right\}

\mathcal {C} _ {L} (P, K) := \left\{\Psi \in \mathbb {R} ^ {\mu \times (n + \mu)}: \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {\mu} \\ \Psi^ {\top} \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} M (P, K) \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {\mu} \\ \Psi^ {\top} \end{array} \right] \succ 0 \right\}, \tag {35}
$$

where

$$
N _ {L} := \left[ \begin{array}{c c} L & \\ & I _ {n + \mu} \end{array} \right] N \left[ \begin{array}{c c} L ^ {\top} & \\ & I _ {n + \mu} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} L (\Delta - Y) L ^ {\top} & - L X ^ {\top} \\ - X L ^ {\top} & - Z \end{array} \right]. \tag {36}
$$

By [7, Thm. 3.4], $L { \pmb \mathcal { E } } : = \{ L { \pmb \Theta } : { \pmb \Theta } \in { \pmb \mathcal { E } } \} = { \pmb \mathcal { E } } _ { L }$ because $Z \succ 0$ by Assumption 3. Furthermore, $L { \mathcal { C } } ( P , K ) : = \{ L \Theta$ : $\Theta \in { \pmb { \mathscr { C } } } ( P , K ) \} \subseteq { \pmb { \mathscr { C } } } _ { L } ( P , K )$ because, for any $\Theta \in { \pmb { C } } ( P , K )$ , $\Psi = L \Theta \in \pmb { \mathcal { C } } _ { L } ( P , K )$ .

We prove the equivalence of the statement using [7, Thm. 4.10]. To verify its assumptions, we inspect the matrix $N _ { L } \mathbf { : }$ :

• The (2, 2) block is negative definite as $Z \succ 0$   
• $L ( \Delta \bar { \mathbf { \Psi } } - Y ) L ^ { \top } - L X Z ^ { - 1 } X L ^ { \top } ~ \succeq ~ 0$ because $\pmb { \mathcal { E } } _ { L }$ is nonempty, see [7, Eq. (3.4)].   
• ker $Z \subseteq \ker L X ^ { \top }$ because Z has full rank.

We are ready to prove both directions of the equivalence.

$1 \implies 2 { : }$ Let $P = P ^ { \top } \succ 0$ and K satisfy (34). It holds that

$$\boldsymbol {\mathcal {E}} _ {L} = L \boldsymbol {\mathcal {E}} \subseteq L \boldsymbol {\mathcal {C}} (P, K) \subseteq \boldsymbol {\mathcal {C}} _ {L} (P, K). \tag {37}$$

From [7, Thm. 4.10], ${ \pmb { \mathscr { E } } } _ { L } \subseteq { \pmb { \mathscr { C } } } _ { L } ( P , K )$ holds only if there exists $\alpha \geq 0$ such that

$$M (P, K) - \alpha N _ {L} \succ 0. \tag {38}$$

Note that, by construction, $M ( P , K )$ does not have full rank, thus the feasibility of (38) implies $\alpha > 0 .$ . As a consequence, divide (38) by α and redefine $\alpha ^ { - 1 } P$ and $\alpha ^ { - 1 } P K$ as P and Q to obtain the LMI (S).

$^ 2 \implies 1 :$ : Let $P = P ^ { \top } \succ 0$ and Q satisfy (S). If we define $K = Q P ^ { - 1 }$ , we obtain that (38) is satisfied with $\alpha = 1$ . Then, by [7, Thm. 4.10], ${ \pmb { \mathscr { E } } } _ { L } \subseteq { \pmb { \mathscr { C } } } _ { L } ( P , K )$ . From the fact that $\pmb { \mathcal { E } } _ { L } = L \pmb { \mathcal { E } }$ , this inclusion corresponds to saying that if $\Theta \in { \pmb { \varepsilon } }$ , then $L \Theta \in { \pmb { C } } _ { L } ( P , K )$ , i.e., it satisfies (31). It follows that $\Theta \in { \pmb { C } } ( P , K )$ , which implies (34). □
