# E.3 Adversarially Robust System Identification

We now focus on the setting where adversarial systems may be present within the cluster of interest. To mitigate their effect in the multitask system identification process, we adopt an aggregation scheme that is $( f , \lambda )$ -resilient, as defined in Definition 2.1.

Lemma E.2 (Estimation error under $( f _ { j } , \lambda )$ -resilient aggregation). Fix a cluster $\mathcal { C } _ { j }$ with $M _ { j }$ systems, among which at most $f _ { j } ~ < ~ M _ { j } / 2$ are adversarial and $m _ { j } : = M _ { j } - f _ { j }$ are honest. For each honest system $i \in \mathcal { C } _ { j }$ , data generation follow (1). Suppose that the aggregation function $F \left( \left\{ G _ { \ell } ( \widehat { \Theta } ^ { ( i ) } ) \right\} _ { \ell \in \mathcal { C } _ { j } } \right)$ $( f , \lambda )$ -resilient and that the intra-cluster hetero bounded by $\epsilon _ { \mathrm { h e t } }$ Moreover, suppose Assumption 2 holds. Then, given a small probability $\delta \in ( 0 , 1 )$ , it holds that

$$
\begin{array}{l} \| \widehat {\Theta} _ {N} ^ {(i)} - \Theta_ {\star} ^ {(i)} \| _ {F} ^ {2} \leq \frac {C _ {\mathrm{stat}} \sigma_ {w} ^ {2} (d _ {x} ^ {2} + d _ {x} d _ {u}) \log (1 / \delta)}{\sigma_ {k} ^ {2} \tau_ {k}} \left(\frac {1}{m _ {\hat {j}}} + \lambda^ {2} d _ {x}\right) + C _ {\mathrm{het}} (1 + \lambda) ^ {2} \epsilon_ {\mathrm{het}} ^ {2} \\ + C _ {\text { mis }, 1} \exp (- C _ {\text { mis }, 2} \sigma_ {k} ^ {2} \tau_ {k}), \tag {20} \\ \end{array}
$$

for any system $i \in \mathcal { C } _ { j }$ , with probability at least $1 - \delta - \exp ( - C _ { \mathrm { m i s , 2 } } \sigma _ { k } ^ { 2 } \tau _ { k } )$

Proof. We begin the proof by recalling that, during epoch k (of length τk), each system $i \in [ M ]$ uses its collected dataset $\mathcal { D } ^ { ( i ) } = \{ X ^ { ( i ) } , Z ^ { ( i ) } \}$ to perform model identification through clustered system identification. As described in Algorithm 2, the state–input data are utilized both for estimating the cluster identity and for learning the model parameters. In the latter step, in particular, we store the gradient preconditioned by the inverse of the empirical state–input covariance matrix:

$$G _ {\ell} (\widehat {\Theta} ^ {(i)}) \leftarrow (X ^ {(\ell)} - \widehat {\Theta} ^ {(i)} Z ^ {(\ell)}) Z ^ {(\ell) \top} (Z ^ {(\ell)} Z ^ {(\ell) \top}) ^ {- 1}$$

of each system that has the same cluster identity as the i system. The model parameter os system i is then updated as follows:
