# IV. Implementation details of Deep MPC

We have assumed that the state-dependent additive disturbance $\| g ( x ) h ( x ) \| \leqslant w _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ for all $x \in \mathcal { X }$ . We can consider the set X as our intended region of operation. Once we have a discrete dynamics (1), the next step to implement deep MPC is the computation of some acceptable value of $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ .

Most of the commercial devices come with their ratings. Therefore an acceptable value of $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ can be safely prescribed. For example, the maximum crosswind speed for an air-plane is prescribed in its flying handbook [11, Chapter 9]. Related discussion about the Boeing aircraft is provided in the report [12]. When such bounds are not provided by the manufacturer, specially when the device is assembled in the laboratory, experiments can be performed to compute bounds similar to the approach available in [13, Fig. 6]. As an example consider that 36 kts is provided as the maximum crosswind speed as company policy for landing but it can also vary according to the runway conditions. Consider a case as another example where a drone is tasked with delivering packages in an urban environment. Suppose initial experiments reveal that the position estimation error varies between 1 and 5 meters due to GPS signal interference in different urban settings. After consulting with domain experts, if the control engineer finds that the signal can be further degraded by certain environmental features like tall buildings or dense foliage, etc., they can prescribe a larger error bound (say 6 meters) and design the controller accordingly. For more algorithmic clarity and generalization of the approach, we can use data generation methods as discussed in [14, Chapter 2]. Suppose we have ?? trajectories containing $\left( { { x } _ { t } } , { { u } _ { t } } \right)$ pairs and $T _ { i }$ denotes the length of $\bar { \iota } ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ trajectory. We can follow the Algorithm 1 to compute $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { a } ,$ where the variable $u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { a }$ will be discussed in the context of learning in more detail and for our own understanding, we can call it a learning authority, i. e. $\left\| u _ { t } ^ { a } \right\| _ { \infty } \leqslant u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { a }$ for all ??.
