# PROOF.

On Bϵ(0) the theorem holds due to Theorem 16. Next, consider Ω as a whole. Like step 3 of [7, Theorem 3.3], we construct a continuous storage function by considering the convex combination of two storage functions. Define $\rho : B _ { \epsilon } \backslash \Psi  \mathbb { R } _ { 0 } ^ { 1 }$ as a non-decreasing, continuous function where $\rho ( { \boldsymbol { x } } ) = 0$ for all $x \in \delta \Psi$ and $\rho ( x ) = 1$ for all $x \in \delta ( \Omega \backslash B _ { \epsilon } ( 0 ) )$ . Define the function

$$
V _ {\phi} (x) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \Phi (x) & x \in \Psi \\ \rho (x) \Phi (x) + (1 - \rho (x)) \phi (x) & x \in B _ {\epsilon} (0) \setminus \Psi \\ \phi (x) & x \in \Omega \setminus B _ {\epsilon} (0). \end{array} \right.
$$

By assumption, both Φ and $\phi$ are storage functions. The function $V _ { \phi }$ is continuous by the composition of continuous functions. Further, $V _ { \phi }$ a storage function as by [32, Theorem 3] the convex combination of storage functions is also a storage function. Note also that $\begin{array} { r l r } { \operatorname* { s u p } _ { x \in \Omega } \left\| \nabla V _ { \phi } \right\| _ { 2 } } & { { } \leq } & { \mathsf { \bar { C } } _ { \phi } } \end{array}$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname * { m a x } _ { i , j \in \mathbb { Z } _ { 1 } ^ { n } , x \in \Omega } | \frac { \partial \phi } { \partial x ^ { ( i ) } \partial x ^ { ( j ) } } | _ { r } | \leq A _ { \phi } } \end{array}$ for some $C _ { \phi } , A _ { \phi } < \infty$ . Thus, by Theorem 15, a viable CPA storage function will be found across $\Omega \setminus B _ { \epsilon } ( 0 )$ that adheres to $V _ { \phi } ( x )$ . This function will also adhere to (20a) and (20b) by definition of $V _ { \phi } .$ . Thus, Problem 2 will is able to determine a storage function with finite simplices and a non-zero ϵ about the origin. ✷
