# 3. An unknown input-parameter-state unscented Kalman lter

Simultaneously estimating the unknown input is possible using the UKF. Employing the predicted states at time step k, the input is estimated using the continuous equation of motion at the time instant $k \Delta t$ as:

$$\mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{e}} \approx \mathbf {G} \left(\ddot {\mathbf {x}} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{m}}, \dot {\mathbf {x}} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{p}}, \mathbf {x} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{p}}, \dots\right) \tag {8}$$

where, G(•) can be a linear or a nonlinear function. $\mathbf { G } ( \bullet )$ also contains the estimated parameters and, thus, it is updated in every step.

Importantly, the predicted states are estimated using the equation $\mathbf { Z _ { p } } =$ $F ( \mathbf { z _ { k - 1 } } , \mathbf { u _ { k - 1 } } )$ ; with the prior input only. In the end, the known input rows of ${ \bf u _ { k } ^ { e } }$ are replaced with the known zero or non-zero inputs. This input is used in the updating process with the measurements $( \mathbf { Y _ { i } } = \mathbf { H _ { k } } \mathbf { Z _ { i , p } } )$ in Table 1B.

However, this estimated ${ \bf u _ { k } ^ { e } }$ is erroneous since neither the predicted states have been updated with the measurements yet, nor the system parameters. This is generally acceptable and its noise characteristics are incorporated into the measurement noise of the observation equation. As a result, $\pmb { \eta _ { k } }$ models both the measurement noise and the input derived noise.

The nal step is to correct further the input estimation using the updated with measurements dynamic states and parameters as:

$$\mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{k}} ^ {\mathrm{e}} \approx \mathbf {G} \left(\ddot {\mathbf {x}} _ {\mathrm{k}} ^ {\mathrm{m}}, \dot {\mathbf {x}} _ {\mathrm{k}}, \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{k}}, \dots\right) \tag {9}$$

and then, replace the known input rows of the nal ${ \bf u _ { k } ^ { e } }$ estimation with the known zero or non-zero inputs.

The measurement error of acceleration still exists in contrast to the displacement, velocity, and parameter error but, since the process error is modeled, the success of the full estimation is not endangered.

This nal ${ \bf u _ { k } ^ { e } }$ is successively used at the prediction calculation of the next step $k + 1$ , and the overall procedure is repeated.
