The paper is organized as follows. In Section II, we introduce the considered control problem. In Section III, we illustrate our approach and its theoretical guarantees. In Section IV, we provide a sufficient condition for LMI feasibility, while Section V shows how to compute the noise energy bound. Finally, Section VI presents two numerical examples and Section VII concludes the paper. Further details and the technical proofs are left in the Appendix.

Notation: We use N, R, and C to denote the sets of natural, real, and complex numbers, respectively, while i is the imaginary unit. $I _ { j }$ denotes the identity matrix of dimension $j ,$ while $0 _ { j }$ and $0 _ { j \times k }$ denote zero matrices of dimensions $j \times j$ and $j \times k . \otimes$ is the Kronecker product between matrices. We denote by $\sigma ( R )$ the spectrum of a square matrix R and by $\lambda _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ( S )$ and $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( S )$ the minimum and maximum eigenvalues of a symmetric matrix S. Given a symmetric matrix S, $S \succ 0 ( \mathrm { r e s p . , } S \succeq 0 )$ denotes that it is positive definite (resp., positive semidefinite). Similarly, $\prec 0$ and $\preceq 0$ are used for negative definite and semidefinite matrices. For symmetric matrices $S _ { 1 }$ and $S _ { 2 }$ , we write $S _ { 1 } ~ \preceq ~ S _ { 2 }$ if $S _ { 1 } - S _ { 2 } \preceq 0$ . Given a signal $f ( \cdot ) : [ 0 , T ]  \mathbb { R } ^ { l }$ , its finite-horizon $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 } [ 0 , T ]$ norm is $\begin{array} { r }  \Vert \bar { f ( \cdot ) } \Vert _ { 2 , [ 0 , T ] } : = \big ( \bar { \int _ { 0 } ^ { T } | f ( \tau ) | ^ { 2 } \mathrm { d } \tau \big ) ^ { 1 / 2 } } \end{array}$ . Finally, the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm of a transfer function matrix $\mathcal G ( s )$ is denoted by $\| { \mathcal { G } } \| _ { \infty } .$
