Co-simulation as an emerging system engineering method, supply an effective way to solve the above question. The core idea is decomposing the complex system to several subsystem, then put the subsystem into different simulation environment which should be suited them to model and solve. Implement data exchange and time synchronization by standardized interfaces, thereby achieved co-simulation of whole system. This paper selects ROS 2 Jazzy (Robot Operating System 2）and MATLAB/Simulink as tool for cosimulation, the reason lies in them two formed a perfect complement:

(1) Field professionalism: Simulink is the industry standard for design of control algorithm, with their graphical modeling and a rich mathematical toolbox; meanwhile ROS 2 provides a distributed communication architecture and rich robot function packages, making it a preferred platform for system collection and soft framework development.   
(2) Real-Time Performance: ROS 2 is based on the DDS (Data Distribution Service) middleware and can meet the hard real-time requirements of the control system through QoS policy configuration.

(3) Cross-platform and Multi-language collaboration: ROS 2 supports Linux, Windows and embedded systems, with compatible for multiple program languages including C++ and Python, it’s convenient to parallel develop using diverse tools; MATLAB can provide a robust support for modeling complex nonlinear system by its advanced symbolic computation and numerical analysis capability. Additionally, Simulink Coder can transform to the optimized C/C++ code automatically, supports seamless transition from simulation to embedded deployment.

The descriptions of subsequent sections are as follows: section 2 and section 3 will respectively introduce dynamic model of system and designing method of controller. Section 4 will elaborate architecture of co-simulation and its implementation. Section 5 will show the crucial simulation results and performance analysis. Finally, section 6 will conclude the paper and outlines potential future directions.
