# II. Problem setup

We are interested in a dynamics, which has the form

$$x _ {t + 1} = f (x _ {t}) + g (x _ {t}) \left(u _ {t} + h (x _ {t})\right), \tag {1}$$

where

(1-a) $x _ { t } \in X \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d } , \ u _ { t } \in \mathcal { U } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ are state and action, respectively, at time ??.   
(1-b) The term $g ( x _ { t } ) h ( x _ { t } )$ represents state-dependent disturbance and there exists $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } } > 0$ such that $\| g ( x ) h ( x ) \| \leqslant$ $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ for all $x \in \mathcal { X }$ .   
(1-c) The functions ?? and $g$ are known and Lipschitz continuous.   
(1-d) The function ℎ is unknown but continuous 1,   
(1-e) X and U are compact sets.   
(1-f) The matrix $g ( x )$ is left invertible for each $x \in \mathcal { X }$ .

There are many practical applications where an uncertain system follows the recursion (1). In a practical continuoustime system such as mobile robots, digital controllers can be implemented by either discretizing the dynamics before computing the control or discretizing the controller before implementing it. Optimal control formulations such as reinforcement learning and MPC are generally based on discretized dynamics while adaptive control implementations are generally based on discretized controller.

In some cases we may be interested in a control constraint of the form $\left. u _ { t } ^ { i } \right. \leqslant u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { i }$ for $i = 1 , \ldots , m$ . These constraints can be written in the form $\left\| u _ { t } \right\| _ { \infty } \leqslant u _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ by scaling $g ( x _ { t } )$ [8, Remark 1]. Therefore, for simplicity, we define $\mathcal { U } : = \{ u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m } | \| u \| _ { \infty } \leqslant$ $u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } \}$ .
