# 1 Introduction

The maritime and ocean engineering communities have increasingly recognized the importance of developing accurate and computationally efficient models for the prediction and control of marine system dynamics. In particular, the capability to accurately predict ship motions is essential for supporting their design, monitoring, and decision-making tasks during their operations. This holds particularly for seakeeping and maneuvering in adverse weather conditions, for which the availability of reliable predictive tools helps in the development and operation of vessels, ensuring the safety of structures, payload, and crew. In this regard, commercial and military ships must meet the International Maritime Organization (IMO) Guidelines and NATO Standardization Agreements (STANAG), respectively. Both regulatory frameworks emphasize the need for accurate assessments of vessel motions and loads under a wide range of sea conditions, highlighting the importance of robust modeling and simulation tools to support compliance and operational readiness.

The complexity and nonlinear nature of hydrodynamic phenomena involved pose significant challenges to predicting ship responses in waves. Recent works [1, 2, 3] demonstrated the ability of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) methods with unsteady Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes (URANS) formulations to assess ship performances in waves and extreme sea conditions. Along with the high fidelity of simulations, however, comes their high computational costs. This is particularly true when simulations aim to achieve statistical convergence of relevant quantities of interest, and complex fluid-structure interactions are investigated. Realtime applications, such as control, fault detection, and digital twinning, are also limited by the computational effort required from such models.
