We also revisit two additional results from Lee et al. [2023]. The first result in Lemma D.5 controls the largest norm of the process and exploration noises, $\dot { w } _ { t } ^ { ( i ) }$ and $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t } ^ { ( i ) }$ , respectively, for any system $i \in [ m ]$ , with high probability. The second result in Lemma D.6 bounds the norm of the state and the norm of the solution of the Lyapunov equation $P _ { K } ,$ , for a sufficiently large horizon length. In particular, the bound for the state norm scales with the largest norm of the process and exploration noise. Later, we see that Lemmas D.5 and D.6 can be used to demonstrate that if the initial epoch length is sufficiently large, the state and controller norm boundedness requirement in Algorithm 1 are satisfied.

Lemma D.5. (Lee et al. [2023]) Let $\delta \in ( 0 , 1 )$ . For any system $i \in [ m ]$ , it holds that

$$
\max _ {0 \leq t \leq T - 1} \left\| \left[ \begin{array}{c} w _ {t} ^ {(i)} \\ g _ {t} ^ {(i)} \end{array} \right] \right\| \leq 4 \sigma_ {w} \sqrt {\left(d _ {x} + d _ {u}\right) \log \frac {T}{\delta}},
$$

with probability at least $1 - \delta$ .

Lemma D.6. (Lee et al. [2023]) Consider the discrete LTI system $x _ { s + 1 } = A _ { \star } x _ { s } + B _ { \star } u _ { s } + w _ { s }$ with initial state $x _ { 0 }$ . Suppose that we play this system with the control action $u _ { s } = K x _ { s } + \sigma _ { u } g _ { s }$ where K is stabilizing and $\sigma _ { u } \le 1$ , for t time steps. Moreover, suppose that

$\begin{array} { r } { \bullet \Vert x _ { 1 } \Vert \leq 1 6 \Vert P _ { K _ { 0 } } \Vert ^ { 3 / 2 } \Psi _ { B ^ { \star } } \operatorname* { m a x } _ { 0 \leq t \leq T - 1 } \left. \left[ \begin{array} { l } { w _ { t } } \\ { g _ { t } } \end{array} \right] \right. } \end{array}$   
$\bullet \left\| P _ { K } \right\| \leq 2 \left\| P _ { K _ { 0 } } \right\|$   
$\begin{array} { r } { \bullet \ t \geq \log _ { \left( 1 - \frac { 1 } { \left. P _ { K } \right. } \right) } \ \left( \frac { 1 } { 4 \left. P _ { K } \right. } \right) + 1 . } \end{array}$

Then for $s = 0 , \ldots , t - 1$ , it holds that

$$
\| x _ {s} \| \leq 4 0   \| P _ {K _ {0}} \| ^ {2}   \Psi_ {B ^ {\star}} \max _ {1 \leq t \leq T} \left\| \left[ \begin{array}{c} w _ {t} \\ g _ {t} \end{array} \right] \right\|.
$$

In addition, we have

$$
\| x _ {t} \| \leq 1 6   \| P _ {K _ {0}} \| ^ {3 / 2}   \Psi_ {B ^ {\star}} \max _ {1 \leq t \leq T} \left\| \left[ \begin{array}{c} w _ {t} \\ g _ {t} \end{array} \right] \right\|.
$$

Assumption 4. (Geometric mixing) For any system $i \in [ m ]$ , assume the state evolution -input process $\left\{ z _ { t } ^ { ( i ) } \right\} _ { t > 0 }$ t≥0 is a mean-zero stationary β-mixing process, with stationary covariance $\Sigma _ { z _ { t } } ^ { ( i ) }$ and $\beta ( s ) \le C _ { \beta } \rho ^ { s } , f \bar { o } r$ some $C _ { \beta } \geq 0$ and $\rho \in ( 0 , 1 )$ .
