Actuator bandwidth constraints: To account for actuator bandwidth, the convergence speed of the allocation dynamics is selected based on the bandwidth of the more constrained actuator (FES). This allows the incorporation of the lowest bandwidth into the allocation and prevents fast reallocation, and subsequently fast changes in desired FES torque, that would violate actuation feasibility. An alternative would be extension of actuator rate saturation [29] based on the method proposed in [45].

Remark 10 (Advantages of Dynamic Allocation). It is worth highlighting again that dynamic allocation provides a modular and computationally efficient solution for real-time distribution of assistance between the exoskeleton and FES. Compared to optimization-based methods such as MPC, it requires only a few interpretable parameters—namely $k _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } ~ ( k _ { 2 } ^ { \prime } )$ and $\alpha _ { 1 } ^ { s }$ (αs2)—which can be directly selected to reflect design objectives. The parameter αs1 (αs2) specifies the desired contribution of different actuators, while $k _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } ~ ( k _ { 2 } ^ { \prime } )$ determines the allocation convergence speed. Additionally, these parameters can be selected to directly encode desired steady-state cooperative gain and to account for actuator magnitude and bandwidth saturation. □

Simulation: To provide an intuitive interpretation of the dynamic allocation scheme described in Section II-A3, we present a simple example of dynamic allocation that incorporates the attainable sets and constraints of FES.

Setup: We benchmark the proposed method from Section II-A3 on the modular cooperative control of a hybrid FES-exoskeleton. The allocator dynamics follows (11a) and (16) (equivalently (11a) and (26)), with the FES attainable set of the participant considered in allocation dynamics. This attainable set determines the magnitude and bandwidth constraints of the FES-induced torque. The magnitude constraints of FES-induced torque in this simulation are derived from real experimental data. Moreover, to better highlight the impact of dynamic discrepancy and illustrate how the dynamic allocator accounts for it, the bandwidths of the biceps and triceps muscle groups are set to 0.908 Hz and 3.976 Hz, respectively.
