$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} x _ {1 (k)} ^ {m} \\ x _ {2 (k)} ^ {m} \\ x _ {3 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \dot {x} _ {1 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \dot {x} _ {2 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \dot {x} _ {3 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \ddot {x} _ {1 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \ddot {x} _ {2 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \ddot {x} _ {3 (k)} ^ {m} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c} & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & & \\ & x _ {1 (k)} ^ {p} \\ x _ {2 (k)} ^ {p} \\ x _ {3 (k)} ^ {p} \\ \dot {x} _ {1 (k)} ^ {p} \\ \dot {x} _ {2 (k)} ^ {p} \\ \dot {x} _ {3 (k)} ^ {p} \\ \mathbf {M} ^ {- 1} \left\{\mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{e}} - \mathbf {C} \dot {\mathbf {x}} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{p}} - \mathbf {K x} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{p}} \right\} \end{array} \right] \tag {18}
$$

where for the unknown input $\mathbf { u } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { e } } = \mathbf { G } \left( \ddot { \mathbf { x } } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { m } } , \dot { \mathbf { x } } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { p } } , \mathbf { x } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { p } } , . . . \right) = \mathbf { M } \mathbf { x } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { m } } + \mathbf { C } \dot { \mathbf { x } } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { p } } + \mathbf { K } \mathbf { x } _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \mathbf { p } }$ and then $\mathbf { u _ { k } ^ { e } }  [ 0 \quad 0 \quad u _ { 3 ( k ) } ^ { e } ] ^ { T }$ .

The $\bullet ^ { m }$ and $\bullet ^ { p }$ stand for measured and predicted, respectively. The predicted states are available from Eq. 17. C and K matrices involve estimated parameters and have to be updated in every step.

Here, the full state measurement case is used. The investigation of this assumption is discussed in section 6.

The process covariance $\mathbf { Q _ { k - 1 } }$ and the measurement covariance $\mathbf { R _ { k } }$ matrices were chosen to be constant during the identication process and equal to $1 0 ^ { - 9 } \cdot \mathbf { I _ { 1 2 \times 1 2 } }$ and $1 0 ^ { - 3 } \cdot \mathbf { I _ { 9 \times 9 } }$ , respectively. For larger values, the algorithm needs more data and time to converge, or it may even diverge.

In Fig. 2 the true and the estimated response, stiness parameters, damping parameters, and input estimation and its error at DOF 3 are shown. The convergence is satisfactory.

Additionally, in Fig. 3 the application is shown for an ambient input;
