# IV. RESULTS

Fig. 5 illustrates an exemplar result of the dynamic allocation in the hybrid system. The attainable actuator set used in the dynamic allocation scheme is based on the muscle activation dynamics (capturing FES bandwidth constraints) and the static FES torque map (describing actuator magnitude saturation) shown in Fig. 5(a) and Fig. 5(b), respectively.

Fig. 5(c) (top) demonstrates the joint trajectory tracking result, where the measured joint angle θ closely follows the reference $\theta _ { d } ,$ with a Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) of 3.76◦. Fig. 5(c) (middle) depicts the cooperative gain α modulated adaptively based on user preferences (prioritizing FES over exoskeleton) and attainable sets of actuators (Fig. 5(a) and Fig. 5(b)). We designed the control scenario such that FES would be the preferred assistive technology, and the distribution of the cooperative gain, shown in Fig. 5(d), supports effective integration of this consideration within dynamic allocation: α distribution is skewed toward higher values, with $P ( \alpha \geq 0 . 9 5 ) \approx 6 4 \%$ and average α ≈ 0.90, which indicates prioritization of the FES over exoskeleton. Fig. 5(c) (bottom) shows the desired assistive torque, the desired FES torque, and the attainable FES-induced torque set, derived from the static map in Fig. 5(b). The desired FES torque lies within the green shaded region, indicating compliance with actuator magnitude saturation constraints throughout the whole trial. Fig. 5(e) presents zoomed-in segments that confirm compliance with both magnitude and bandwidth constraints. These results highlight the ability of the proposed dynamic allocation framework to prioritize one actuator over another while respecting actuator constraints and ensuring accurate trajectory tracking.
