# 2.2.1 Irregular waves

The first part of the experiments was dedicated to model testing in head irregular waves. The wave generator was operated to produce a linear superposition of $N _ { w } = 1 0 \breve { 0 }$ elemental wave components with random phase φ and frequencies equally spaced in 0.28 Hz≤ $f \leq 1 . 1 3$ Hz

Table 1: Test matrix, regular and irregular wave conditions 

<table><tr><td> $h_s$  [m]</td><td> $λ_w / L_m$  [-]</td><td> $v_{phase}$  [m/s]</td><td> $v_{group}$  [m/s]</td><td>performed tests</td></tr><tr><td>0.15</td><td colspan="3">Pierson-Moskowitz spectrum</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td>0.10</td><td>1.5</td><td>1.811</td><td>0.905</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>0.10</td><td>2</td><td>2.090</td><td>1.045</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>0.10</td><td>3</td><td>2.560</td><td>1.280</td><td>1</td></tr></table>

$$\eta (t) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N _ {w}} A (f _ {i}) \sin (2 \pi f _ {i} t + \varphi_ {i}). \tag {1}$$

The amplitudes $A ( f _ { i } ) = \sqrt { ( 4 \pi E ( f _ { i } ) \Delta f _ { i } ) }$ . were defined to obtain a the sea state 7 Pierson-Moskowitz $( \mathrm { P - M } )$ spectrum $E ( f ) \ [ 3 7 ]$ characterized by a significant height of $h _ { s } = 0 . 1 5$ m and peak period $T _ { p } = 2 . 1 2 \ : \mathrm { s }$ in model scale $( h _ { s } = \breve { 7 } . 5$ m and $T _ { p } = 1 5 \ : \mathrm { s }$ s in full scale):

$$E (f) = \frac {5}{1 6} h _ {s} ^ {2} T _ {p} ^ {- 4} f ^ {- 5} \exp \left(- \frac {5}{4} T _ {p} ^ {- 4} f ^ {- 4}\right). \tag {2}$$

Figure 2 compares the nominal generated power spectral density from Eq. (2) with the corresponding from the experimental wave elevation measured by the Kenek wave elevation probe in the forward position (see Fig. 3b). The EFD power spectral density is obtained using the Welch’s method by analyzing approximately 210 s of wave elevation signal per run (10.5 minutes) in model scale, corresponding to about 4455 s in full scale (1 hour and 14 minutes). The signal, sampled at 500 Hz, was divided into segments of $2 ^ { 1 2 }$ samples with an overlap of $2 ^ { 7 }$ samples. Each segment was transformed using a $2 ^ { 1 6 }$ -point FFT, and the resulting periodograms were averaged to obtain the final spectral estimate. The actual realizations are characterized by an average significant height of $\hat { h } _ { s } = 0 . 1 6$ m and average peak period of $\hat { T } _ { p } = 1 . 9 8 \mathrm { ~ s ~ }$ in model scale $( \hat { h } _ { s } = 8$ m and $\hat { T } _ { p } = 1 4 \ : \mathrm { s }$ in full scale).
