Algorithm 1 Computation of bounds $w _ { \mathrm { m a x } } , u _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { a }$   
1: Input: $(x_{j}, u_{j})_{j=0}^{T_{i}}$ for $i = 1, \ldots, M$ , f, g
2: Output: $w_{max}, u_{max}^{a}$ 3: $w_{max}, u_{max}^{a} \leftarrow 0$ 4: for $i \leftarrow 1$ to M do
5:    for $j \leftarrow 0$ to $T_{i} - 1$ do
6: $w \leftarrow x_{j+1} - f(x_{j}) - g(x_{j})u_{j}$ 7: $w^{a} \leftarrow g(x_{j})^{\dagger}w$ 8: $w_{max} \leftarrow \max\{w_{max}, w\}$ 9: $u_{max}^{a} \leftarrow \max\{u_{max}^{a}, w^{a}\}$ 10: return $w_{max}, u_{max}^{a}$

Now we need to design a reference governor. Reference governor provides a trackable reference trajectory, which can be tracked by the nominal dynamics. To clear the nomenclature, we can call (1) our uncertain dynamics because it has an unknown term $h ( x _ { t } )$ . The nominal dynamics is given by $x _ { t + 1 } = f ( x _ { t } ) + g ( x _ { t } ) u _ { t } ^ { m } = : \bar { f } ( x _ { t } , u _ { t } ^ { m } )$ . We can also use other names for the nominal dynamics such as simulator dynamics or the dynamics of the digital twin. In a regulation problem, if our set-point is $( \boldsymbol { x } ^ { s } , \boldsymbol { u } ^ { s } )$ such that $x ^ { s } = f ( x ^ { s } ) + g ( x ^ { s } ) u ^ { s }$ and the starting point $x _ { 0 }$ is given, our control objective is to reach the set-point without violating the state and action constraints while minimizing some cost. We emphasize the definition of set-points for beginners because in most of the cases $u ^ { s } = 0$ may not serve the purpose. For example, in order to maintain the temperature of a room at certain level $x ^ { s }$ , a certain amount of heating $u ^ { s }$ is required. Role of reference governor is to suggest a trajectory from ??0 $\mathbf { t o } x _ { s }$ such that we can find $u _ { t } \in \mathcal { U } ,$ which can maintain the states of the uncertain system (1) in the operational region $\chi .$ Since the reference governor works on the nominal dynamics, we tighten the sets X and U. This approach is called constraint tightening and is an active area of research in MPC [15]–[18]. For linear dynamical systems, the tightened constraint set $\textstyle \chi _ { r }$ can be obtained by various types of robust positively invariant (RPI) sets by using different methods such as subtracting the evolution of the disturbance set from the set X. These methods provide analytic expression of the tightened sets but they involve polytopic set computations and are therefore, computationally expensive. In practical implementations generally some approximation of RPI set or tightened set is used. For non-linear dynamical systems, constraint tightening is more difficult not only computationally but also analytically.
