# A. Shared and Cooperative Control

We propose a torque-based control architecture to achieve modularity in hybrid FES-exoskeletons with redundant actuation; volitional, FES, and exoskeleton torque. This architecture enables modularity by leveraging the superposition of torques generated by actuators at the joint level. In contrast, kinematic control does not support superposition of actuator contributions in position or velocity space, limiting modular coordination of multiple actuators at the joint level. Fig. 1 depicts the high-level controller incorporating shared and cooperative control strategies. Shared control determines the total assistance by taking into account volitional human effort and provides robustness against model and environmental uncertainties, while cooperative control addresses the distribution of assistance among the assistive technologies.

We employ a shared control framework based on a reference impedance model [37]–[40], which computes the total control effort required from the assistive devices to minimize tracking error. Dynamic allocation is the proposed cooperative control approach for dealing with input redundancy in this research. Mathematically, in dynamic allocation, an undetermined system of equations known as the allocator dynamics, which is often subject to additional constraints such as actuator limitations and secondary control objectives, is solved.

1) Dynamic Allocation in Redundant System: Consider an affine nonlinear system $\Sigma _ { H }$ of the form

$$\dot {\boldsymbol {x}} = \boldsymbol {f} (\boldsymbol {x}) + \boldsymbol {g} (\boldsymbol {x}) \boldsymbol {u}, \tag {1a}\boldsymbol {y} = \boldsymbol {c} (\boldsymbol {x}) + \boldsymbol {d} (\boldsymbol {x}) \boldsymbol {u}, \tag {1b}$$

where $\mathbf { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the plant state, $\pmb { u } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ is the plant input, and $\pmb { y } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { y } }$ is the plant output, respectively.

The system exhibits strong input redundancy if there exist admissible variations in u that do not affect the system’s states and output. This condition holds when the augmented control matrix ${ \pmb g } ^ { * } ( { \pmb x } ) = [ { \pmb g } ( { \pmb x } ) , { \pmb d } ( { \pmb x } ) ] ^ { \top }$ is rank-deficient, i.e. rank $[ { \pmb g } ( { \pmb x } ) , { \pmb d } ( { \pmb x } ) ] ^ { \top } ) < n _ { u }$ .

Let us define
