# III. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION

To evaluate the proposed dynamic torque allocation, we conducted a performance assessment with the hybrid FESexoskeleton introduced in III-A. The proposed cooperative control allows for online adaptation of the control distribution α based on learned FES-induced torque constraints (III-B). In this demonstration, we designed the allocation so that it prioritizes the more constrained assistive device, namely FES, over the exoskeleton, reflecting both ideal clinical practice and a more challenging control condition. Its performance was then compared against a constant allocation method.

In both dynamic and constant allocation, the tracking task was to follow the elbow joint reference trajectory. The reference trajectory was generated by introducing a constant phase of 2 seconds at the local extrema of the following trajectory, resulting in a combination of constant and timevarying reference trajectories

$$\theta_ {d _ {0}} = \theta_ {0} + \theta_ {A} \prod_ {i = 1} ^ {3} \sin (2 \pi f _ {i} (t - t _ {0})), \tag {39}$$

where t denotes time, and $t _ { 0 }$ is a time offset. The parameters are set as $t _ { 0 } ~ = ~ 2 . 5 , ~ \theta _ { 0 } ~ = ~ 5 2 . 6 ^ { \circ } , ~ \theta _ { A } ~ = ~ 3 7 . 6 ^ { \circ }$ , and frequency components $f _ { 1 } ~ = ~ 0 . 0 5 0 ~ \mathrm { H z }$ , $f _ { 2 } ~ = ~ 0 . 0 6 8$ Hz, and $f _ { 3 } = 0 . 0 9 3$ Hz. The time t is defined over the interval $0 \leq t \leq 3 0$ seconds. The desired trajectory is depicted in Fig. 5(c) (top). Moreover, for a fair comparison, the constant α used in the constant allocation was set to the average α from the dynamic allocation trial.

The Research Protocol of this study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna (approval n. 18/2024), following the principles stated in the Declaration of Helsinki.
