The nominal control input in (2), denoted by $\begin{array} { r l } { \bar { \mathbf { u } } } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $[ \bar { \tau } _ { 1 } ^ { \top } , \bar { \tau } _ { 2 } ^ { \top } , \ldots , \bar { \tau } _ { n } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ in the FES-exoskeleton system refers to any control input that satisfies the desired system behavior. This can be derived from high-level control strategies such as impedance or optimal control. Similar to (7), we rewrite the nominal control input at joint j as

$$\bar {\boldsymbol {\tau}} = \left[ \bar {\alpha} \boldsymbol {\sigma}, 1 - \bar {\alpha} \right] ^ {\top} \bar {\tau} ^ {N} + \boldsymbol {c} \tau^ {C}, \tag {9}$$

where $\bar { \tau } ^ { N } = \mathbf { 1 } ^ { \top } \bar { \tau } \in \mathbb { R }$ represents nominal net control torque at joint j. Similar to (8), the contribution of different actuators in the nominal control input $\bar { \tau }$ can also be parameterized by the nominal cooperative gain α¯

$$\bar {\alpha} = \frac {\bar {\tau} ^ {F}}{\bar {\tau} ^ {N}}, \tag {10}$$

where $\bar { \tau } ^ { F }$ is nominal FES-induced torque.

Remark 2 (Nominal Control Input). When the nominal control input is determined by impedance control, selecting $\bar { \alpha } = 0$ , though not the only possible choice, is an intuitive choice. This implies that, prior to any redistribution of control effort, the entire desired torque is assumed to be provided by the stronger actuator, namely the exoskeleton. Without loss of generality, the proposed framework also accommodates high-level control strategies that already account for individual actuator contributions—such as constant allocation or optimal control. In such cases, the modular dynamic allocation can still be applied to redistribute the already allocated control torque among the actuators.

Remark 3 (FES as One or Two Actuators). Where the distinction between flexor and extensor muscles is not possible, or an exclusive mapping unavailable, FES can be treated as a single actuator by redefining the control input in (4) as ${ \boldsymbol { \tau } } = [ \tau ^ { F } , \tau ^ { E } ] ^ { \top }$ . In this case, there is no need to define muscle co-contraction $\tau ^ { C }$ in (5), and we can directly use (8). □

3) Dynamic Allocation in Hybrid FES-Exoskeleton: Let us define the following set of equations as the governing equations of the dynamic allocator in the FES-exoskeleton system
