# E.1 System Identification with Intra-cluster Homogeneity

We now characterize the system estimation error in epoch k (of length $\tau _ { k } )$ for clustered system identification when all systems within a cluster have identical local models.

Lemma E.1 (Estimation error under intra-cluster homogeneity). Fix a cluster $\mathcal { C } _ { j }$ with $M _ { j }$ systems. For each system $i \in \mathcal { C } _ { j }$ , data generation follow (1). Moreover, suppose Assumption 2 holds. Then, given a small probability of failure $\delta \in ( 0 , 1 )$ , it holds that

$$\left\| \widehat {\Theta} ^ {(i)} - \Theta_ {\star} ^ {(i)} \right\| _ {F} ^ {2} \leq \frac {C _ {\mathrm{stat}} \sigma_ {w} ^ {2} (d _ {x} ^ {2} + d _ {x} d _ {u}) \log (1 / \delta)}{\sigma_ {k} ^ {2} M _ {j} \tau_ {k}} + C _ {\mathrm{mis}, 1} \exp \left(- C _ {\mathrm{mis}, 2} \sigma_ {k} ^ {2} \tau_ {k}\right), \tag {15}$$

for any system $i \in \mathcal { C } _ { j }$ , with probability at least $1 { - } \delta { - } \mathrm { e x p } ( - C _ { \mathrm { m i s , 2 } } \sigma _ { k } ^ { 2 } \tau _ { k } )$ , where $C _ { \mathrm { m i s , 2 } } = \mathcal { O } ( \Delta _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ^ { 2 } / \Delta _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { 2 } \sigma _ { w } ^ { 2 } )$ quantifies the decay rate of the misclassification at epoch $k ,$ and $C _ { \mathrm { m i s } , 1 } = \mathcal { O } ( \Delta _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ^ { 2 } )$ corresponds is the misclassification constant.

Proof. For a given epoch k of length $\tau _ { k }$ , each system $i \in [ M ]$ evolves according to the dynamics in (1). Each system uses its collected dataset $\mathcal { D } ^ { ( i ) } = \{ X ^ { \bar { ( i ) } } , \bar { Z } ^ { ( i ) } \}$ , consisting of state–input and next-state trajectories, to estimate its model and identify its cluster membership. Suppose that system i is assigned to cluster $\hat { j }$ , where $\mathcal { C } _ { \hat { j } }$ denotes the set of indices of systems belonging to cluster $\hat { j } \in [ N _ { c } ]$ . Each system computes its gradient using its local data and the common model of the cluster to which it is assigned. The gradients are then transmitted to the server, which performs the following aggregation step:

$$\widehat {\Theta} _ {n + 1} ^ {(i)} = \widehat {\Theta} _ {n} ^ {(i)} + \frac {\eta}{| \mathcal {C} _ {\hat {j}} |} \sum_ {\ell \in C _ {\hat {j}}} G _ {\ell} (\widehat {\Theta} _ {n} ^ {(i)}),$$
