$\forall i \in \mathcal { N } , \forall t \geq 0$ , where $H _ { i } : \mathcal { U } _ { i } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } + \sum _ { j \in \mathcal { N } _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { P E } } } n _ { j } } \times \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } \to \mathbb { R }$ Rni+Pj∈N PEi nj × R≥0 → R, and the arguments are omitted for notational simplicity.

Remark IV.1. Although the constraint in the optimization problem (19) is another optimization problem, it is linear in $\nu _ { i }$ constraint to a Clarke generalized gradient (and thus sup coincides with max), so it suffices to enforce finite number of boundary elements (which are standard gradients) in such convex hull (see, e.g., [32], [34]), instead of considering an infinite dimensional nested optimization problem. This also applies to the optimization problem (15).

In a multi-agent task, an agent may be involved in a PE graph and some SE graphs simultaneously. As such, we propose the disentangled control as follows. By disentangled we mean a decentralized control synthesis framework in the presence of entangled dynamics in multi-agent systems.

$$
\begin{array}{l} \underset {u _ {i} \in \mathcal {U} _ {i}} {\arg \min} H _ {i} (u _ {i}, x _ {i}, \{x _ {j} \} _ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{PE}}}, \{x _ {j} \} _ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}}, t) \\ \text { s.t. } \quad \max _ {\nu_ {i} \in \partial_ {x _ {i}} ^ {\circ} V} \nu_ {i}   \dot {x} _ {i} + \frac {\partial}{\partial t} V _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{PE}} + \alpha (V _ {i} ^ {\mathrm{PE}}) \leq 0 \\ \frac {\max _ {\zeta_ {i} \in \partial_ {x _ {i}} ^ {\circ} V _ {\mathcal {N} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}}} \zeta_ {i} \dot {x} _ {i} + w _ {\mathcal {N} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}} ^ {i} \left(\frac {\partial}{\partial t} V _ {\mathcal {N} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}} + \alpha \left(V _ {\mathcal {N} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}}\right)\right) \leq 0}{(2 0)} \\ \end{array}
$$

$\forall \mathcal { N } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } \in \mathcal { S } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } , \forall i \in \mathcal { N } , \forall t \geq 0 ,$ , where $H _ { i } : \mathcal { U } _ { i } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { i } } \times $ $\mathbb { R } ^ { \sum _ { j \in { \mathcal { N } } _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { P E } } } n _ { j } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { \sum _ { j \in { \mathcal { N } } _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } } n _ { j } } \times \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } \to \mathbb { R }$ , and the arguments are omitted for notational simplicity.

Remark IV.2. The advantages of the disentangled control (20) are as follows.
