# Contributions

This paper determines the local QSR dissipativity characterization of nonlinear, control affine systems via synthesis of a CPA storage function that adheres to the dissipation condition over a region of the state space. This analysis is accomplished via a convex optimization problem that simultaneously searches for the QSR parameters and CPA storage function that satisfies that the dissipation condition – ensuring that the inequality holds for the entirety of the region. In essence, our approach triangulates a region of the state space, and then upper bounds the nonlinear dynamics of the system on each simplex with a linear system. We are then able to synthesize a storage function across the linearized systems.

In Section 3, we develop a novel LMI error bound to impose MI constraints on a CPA function on a triangulation. We also develop a method to enforce inequalities on a closed norm ball about the origin, which allows us to consider quadratic storage functions. The development of these error bounds builds on work in [24]. In Section 4, we develop conditions for a CPA storage function to adhere to the dissipation condition. Because of the LMI error bounds, we are able to reformulate the dissipation condition as an MI– convexifying the previous optimization problem. Optimization problems are formulated to search for general dissipativity characterizations of nonlinear systems. In Section 5 theoretical results are developed to confirm that if a nonlinear control affine system is sufficiently strictly locally dissipative, then this optimization problem can be used to verify dissipativity characteristics. Finally, numerical results are given in Section 6.
