2) FES-Torque Model Identification: The static maps $\tau ^ { F ^ { * } } ( . )$ and $r ( . )$ , as well as the delay $t _ { d }$ and the dynamic map parameters A and $B ,$ are unknown, requiring individual identification. Hammerstein-Wiener system identification [58], therefore, is used to identify the FES-torque model [37], [59]– [61] based on training data. The nonlinear muscle recruitment curve is modeled by the cubic spline [37], [62]–[67], and the linear activation dynamics (35b) is then learned using the linear regression method [37], [59], [61]. Moreover, attainable sets of FES $\mathbb { A } _ { F }$ are derived from the learned map.

Training data for the FES-induced torque model consists of FES torque at various FES intensities at different elbow angles

$$\left. \left\{\left(\left[ v ^ {(\gamma)}, \theta^ {(\gamma)} \right] ^ {\top}, \tau^ {F (\gamma)}\right) \right\} _ {\gamma = 0} ^ {\Gamma} \right. \tag {36}$$

where the superscript (γ) indicates the value of each variable at the γ-th sample, with $\gamma \in \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , \Gamma \}$ , and Γ being the total number of training samples.

In identification, the cumulative delay comprising electromechanical delay [39], [55], actuator/stimulator delay, and communication delay is estimated. The stimulator and communication delays depend on the FES and control setup and are estimated 16ms for the system in this study. Moreover, fatigue modeling and identification are not investigated in this work; nevertheless, the provided framework allows for incorporating this effect (see [39], [56] for fatigue modeling). Fatigue limits the FES-induced torque and, therefore, the attainable set of FES $\mathbb { A } _ { F }$ , this can be taken into account by updating FES magnitude saturation, W in (16); further details on incorporating saturation into W are provided in [29].
