In the continuous-time setting, similar LMIs have been developed for data-driven state-feedback control [4, 15, 16], also accounting for the presence of noise, but at the price of requiring state derivative measurements in the dataset. To circumvent this limitation, research efforts have been dedicated to achieving derivative-free state-feedback approaches [17, 18]. Despite these advancements, data-driven control of continuous-time systems from input–output data remains far less developed. In this direction, [19] and [20] proposed a derivative-free framework to design output-feedback controllers with a filter of the input–output data acting as an observer of a non-minimal realization of the plant. While this approach achieves stabilization and output regulation in the noise-free setting, to the best of the authors’ knowledge, no method can yet handle noisy input–output data.

Motivated by this gap, this paper proposes an approach for data-driven stabilization of a class of multi-input multi-output (MIMO) systems subject to process and measurement noise that generalizes the results of [20]. The proposed control design comprises a filter of the input–output signals and a linear feedback law depending on the filter states. The gains of the feedback law are computed with an LMI obtained by postprocessing the offline data through the filter dynamics. As compared with [20], we leverage the quadratic matrix inequality (QMI) formalism of [7] to obtain a robust LMI formulation whose decision variables do not scale with the data, thus also ensuring application to large datasets. Under an interval excitation condition and assuming the knowledge of a noise energy bound, we use a matrix version of the Slemma to prove that the feasibility of the LMI is necessary and sufficient for stabilizing all non-minimal realizations consistent with the data, characterized by a bounded matrix ellipsoid. We then relate the feasibility of the LMI to the signal-to-noise ratio of the dataset. Finally, we show a method to compute the noise energy based on assumptions on the noise and the tuning of the filters.
