Note that y(t) and $\zeta ( t )$ are available for measurement, while $\Theta ^ { \star }$ and $d ( t )$ are unknown. In particular, to represent the lack of knowledge of $\Theta ^ { \star }$ , we now describe the set of all matrices $\Theta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times ( n + \mu ) }$ that are consistent with the dataset (4). To obtain a set with suitable regularity properties, we impose the following assumptions on the signals appearing in (23).

Assumption 2. The matrix $\Delta$ in Algorithm 1 is such that

$$\int_ {0} ^ {T} d (\tau) d ^ {\top} (\tau) \mathrm{d} \tau \preceq \Delta . \tag {26}$$

Assumption 3. The following excitation condition holds:

$$Z := \int_ {0} ^ {T} \zeta (\tau) \zeta^ {\top} (\tau) \mathrm{d} \tau \succ 0. \tag {27}$$

Remark 1. Similar to the state-feedback scenario of [15], Assumption 2 allows us to represent the set of parameters Θ as the solutions of a QMI and, then, exploit the results of [7] for data-driven stabilization. In Section V, we show how to compute ∆ satisfying (26) when certain prior knowledge about the noise signals w(·) and v(·) is available.

Remark 2. Assumption 3 corresponds to the full-rank conditions appearing in the data-driven literature [4, 6, 13]. Even though such a requirement would not be necessary to introduce the non-strict LMI of [7, Cor. 4.13], it provides improved theoretical guarantees and leads to the strict LMI of [7, Thm. 4.10] which, as argued there, may be preferred in terms of numerical reliability.

For compactness of notation, define

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} Y & X ^ {\top} \\ \hline X & Z \end{array} \right] := \int_ {0} ^ {T} \left[ \begin{array}{c} y (\tau) \\ - \zeta (\tau) \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} y (\tau) \\ - \zeta (\tau) \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} \mathrm{d} \tau \succeq 0, \tag {28}
$$

where the lines indicate the corresponding blocks, so that $Y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times p } , X \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( n + \mu ) \times p } .$ , and $Z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { ( n + \overline { { \mu } } ) \times ( n + \mu ) }$ .

Then, replace d(t) with $y ( t ) - \Theta \zeta ( t )$ in (26) to obtain the set of all non-minimal realizations consistent with (4):

$$
\boldsymbol {\mathcal {E}} := \left\{\Theta \in \mathbb {R} ^ {p \times (\mu + n)}: \left[ I _ {p} \quad \Theta \right] N \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {p} \\ \Theta^ {\top} \end{array} \right] \succeq 0 \right\}, \tag {29}
$$

where

$$
N := \left[ \begin{array}{c c} \Delta - Y & - X ^ {\top} \\ - X & - Z \end{array} \right]. \tag {30}
$$
