and ?? is the Hamiltonian associated to the control problem. We stress the fact that the problem considered do not allow to control the law in the decoupled equation (1.8). Consequently, the studied framework is not the classical McKean-Vlasov ergodic control problem and it explains why we will talk about a partial McKean-Vlasov ergodic control problem. If we see a McKean-Vlasov SDE as the limit of an interacting particle system, we consider a problem were we control only one particle, which explains why this control will have no impact on the distribution, whereas the classical McKean-Vlasov ergodic control problem is looking for an optimal control identically applied to all particles at the same time.

Comparison with other works. Up to our knowledge, there is no work dealing with distribution dependent ergodic BSDEs. However several paper investigate some questions related to close models, as mean field games (MFG for short) or McKean-Vlasov control problems, by using other tools. Let us detail here some of them.

A recent paper of Fuhrman and Rud\`a, see [12], obtain result on ergodic control problem on the Wasserstein space by using a control approach for strongly dissipative and controlled McKean-Vlasov’s SDE. Namely, the following SDE,

$$\mathrm{d} X _ {t} = b (X _ {t}, [ X _ {t} ], a _ {t}) \mathrm{d} t + \sigma (X _ {t}, [ X _ {t} ], a _ {t}) \mathrm{d} W _ {t}.$$

Their main result is the existence and (partial) uniqueness of a viscosity solution to an ergodic McKean-Vlasov HJB equation on the Wasserstein space. They link it with an optimal ergodic McKean-Vlasov control problem and show that ?? (the constant that is part of the solution of the ergodic PDE) gives the first order term when we look at the long time behavior of a finite horizon McKean-Vlasov control problem, as in Theorem 4.1. Nevertheless, compared to our work, they only consider a strong dissipativity condition, and ask their generator ?? to be bounded and Lipschitz with respect to ?? where we have instead a polynomial growth and a locally H¨older condition. Moreover, they do not have the precise exponential convergence (1.4). Same kind of results, under some close assumptions, were also obtained by Bao and Tang in [1].
