# 6. Output information sensitivity analysis

The prior information recommendation is to measure all dynamic states, an assumption that sounds restrictive or economically suboptimal. A way to relax this requirement is via a data fusion algorithm (i.e. [22]), simultaneously with the IPS-UKF concept.

This is attributed to two main reasons: the high-frequency noise amplication when the non-measured derivative of a measured dynamic state is needed, and the low-frequency noise which causes integration error or the loss of the drift information when the non-measured integration of a measured dynamic state is needed.

The full state measurement recommendation is not mandatory though, as demonstrated using a sensitivity analysis. It is shown that measurements of at least two dynamic states at each DOF is potentially adequate to identify a nonlinear system.

Note that, the high-frequency noise is the hardest to tackle when the dierentiation of a signal is needed, let alone when the input is unknown. For this reason, the investigation of the non-acceleration measurement case is abandoned for unknown input system identication.

Importantly, if the system is highly nonlinear, then the drift information loss will endanger the identication procedure when no displacements are measured.

Compared with the previous numerical application (section 5.2), only the observation equation is modied accordingly for the non-displacement, the non-velocity, and the acceleration-only measurement case, respectively, as:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} _ {1 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \dot {x} _ {2 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \ddot {x} _ {1 (k)} ^ {m} \\ \ddot {x} _ {2 (k)} ^ {m} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} _ {1 (k)} ^ {p} \\ \dot {x} _ {2 (k)} ^ {p} \\ \mathbf {M} ^ {- 1} \left\{\mathbf {u} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathrm{e}} - \mathbf {C} \dot {\mathbf {x}} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathbf {p}} - \mathbf {K x} _ {\mathbf {k}} ^ {\mathbf {p}} - \mathbf {E} \left[ \begin{array}{c} \left(x _ {1 (k)} ^ {p}\right) ^ {3} \\ \left(x _ {2 (k)} ^ {p} - x _ {1 (k)} ^ {p}\right) ^ {3} \end{array} \right] \right\} \end{array} \right] \tag {25}
