# III. Deep MPC

The overall deep MPC architecture consists of a reference governor, tracking MPC, adaptation mechanism and two neural networks as shown in Fig. 1. Both neural networks have the same architecture with one linear output layer followed by a layer with bounded activation functions such as Tanh, sigmoidal, etc. The remaining architecture of the neural networks is flexible and the choice depends on the type of problems. For simplicity, we can consider fully connected layers too.

Reference governor and tracking MPC modules are same as tube MPC [3] with modifications required to adjust the adaptation mechanism. In other words, to steer a dynamical system (1) from the initial state $x _ { 0 }$ to the target state $x ^ { s }$ while satisfying the state and action constraints described with (1), we are interested in designing the control $u _ { t } = u _ { t } ^ { a } + u _ { t } ^ { m }$ at time ??, where $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ is the output of the neural network in the main loop; please see Fig. 1. Reference governor takes slowly varying reference $r _ { t }$ as input and suggests a trajectory from ??0 to $r _ { t }$ . For simplicity, we consider $r _ { t } = x ^ { s } = 0$ , which means the reference governor is designed offline for a regulation problem. For a tracking problem, reference governor is invoked whenever $r _ { t }$ changes [3], [9]. The trajectory generated by reference governor need to have sufficient margin from the boundaries of X so that the states of the uncertain system (1) controlled by the tracking MPC stay in X. Therefore, tightening of constraints before designing the reference governor is required, which will be discussed in the next section.

The adaptation mechanism as shown in Fig. 1 updates the parameters of the output layer (wights and biases) by assuming the hidden layers as a fixed feature basis function. Since the ideal feature basis function is not known in case of unstructured uncertainties, we utilize the second neural network. To train this second neural network, we use the data available in the replay buffer. To create the replay buffer data, we use output of neural network (main loop) as label and corresponding state as input with some experience selection criterion [10]. We can intermittently (at time instants $( t _ { j } ) _ { j \in \mathbb { N } } )$ replace the parameters of the hidden layers of neural network (main loop) by the parameters of the hidden layers of the second neural network.
