However, when the cost function for each agent also depends on the states of other agents or when multiple agents share a single cost function that depends on their states, decentralized control synthesis for each agent becomes nontrivial. This is because the total derivatives of these types of cost functions involve the dynamics of multiple agents simultaneously, which typically requires centralized control synthesis for all the agents involved. We refer to such dynamics as entangled dynamics in multi-agent systems. By entangled we mean that in order for an agent to synthesize its controller, it must have access to the controllers of certain other agents, and in turn, those agents require this agent’s controller (and possibly the controllers of additional agents) to complete their own control synthesis. This creates a more complicated version of the “chicken-and-egg” coupling issue.

Against this backdrop, developing a decentralized framework where $u _ { i }$ in (11) can be specifically synthesized as $u _ { i } \ : \ \mathbb { R } ^ { \sum _ { i \in \mathcal { N } } n _ { i } } \times \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } \  \ \mathcal { U } _ { i } \ \subset \ \bar { \mathbb { R } } ^ { m _ { i } }$ that does not depend on $u _ { j } \in \mathcal { U } _ { j } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { m _ { j } }$ , for any $j \in \mathcal { N } \backslash \{ i \}$ , becomes the focus of our investigation in this section. To this end, we identify two different types of entangled TV-CLFs, which constitute the main obstacles to directly applying Theorem III.1 to multiagent systems in a decentralized manner. Correspondingly, we develop Lyapunov-based theorems ensuring convergence guarantees to address these two cases.

Definition IV.1. For an $\mathcal { N } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } \in \mathcal { S } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } \subseteq 2 ^ { \mathcal { N } } \backslash \{ \emptyset \}$ , where $2 ^ { N }$ denotes the power set of N , let $\mathcal { N } _ { i } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } = \mathcal { N } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } \backslash \{ i \}$ denote the neighbor set of Agent i in the Shared-Entangled graph (SE graph) $\mathcal G ^ { \mathrm { S E } } = ( \bar { \mathcal N } ^ { \mathrm { S E } } , \mathcal E ^ { \mathrm { S E } } )$ , which is a complete graph. An $N S – T V – C L F$

$$V _ {\mathcal {N} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}}: \mathbb {R} ^ {\sum_ {i \in \mathcal {N} ^ {\mathrm{SE}}} n _ {i}} \times \mathbb {R} _ {\geq 0} \rightarrow \mathbb {R} _ {\geq 0} \tag {12}$$
