In the context of Deep MPC [2], the output of a DNN itself is used to train another DNN. Therefore, the output dataset of a DNN with projected weights and bounded activation function results in vanishing gradient phenomenon during the training. As a result, in many cases performance of tube-MPC and deep MPC either remains the same or in some cases the underlying optimization problem of deep MPC becomes infeasible. In particular, let $u _ { t } : = u _ { t } ^ { a } + u _ { t } ^ { m }$ be the control applied at time ??, where $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ is the learning component and $u _ { t } ^ { m }$ is the MPC component. Since $u _ { t }$ should be bounded for all $t ,$ a careful distribution of control authority between $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ and ${ \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t } ^ { m }$ is required. When $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ does not get enough control authority, learning may not happen and therefore, their performance may be the same. When ${ \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t } ^ { m }$ does not get enough control authority, the underlying optimization problem can become infeasible. This manuscript provides a tutorial introduction to Deep MPC, its algorithmic details and provides numerical justification about distributing the control authority between $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } ^ { a }$ and ${ \boldsymbol { u } } _ { t } ^ { m }$ .

Our notations are standard and mostly defined before their first use. We describe the problem setup in §II and provide the overall architecture of deep MPC in §III. The implementation details, algorithms and explanations are provided in §IV. The reason of poor learning in deep MPC is explained through a numerical experiment in §V and finally we conclude in §VI.
