Bayraktar and Jian [2] developed ergodicity and turnpike properties, i.e. exponential convergence toward an ergodic problem, for linear-quadratic Mean Field control problems. Apart from the linear-quadratic framework, the main difference on the MV-SDE is that theirs only depend on the law through the expectation.

Cecchin, Conforti, Durmus and Eichinger in [7] establish several turnpike properties, under different smoothness assumptions and weak dissipativity assumption, of the long time behavior of solutions of mean field PDE systems related to MFG. These results generalize some previous papers [4, 5, 6] restricted to compact domains of $\mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ and assuming a Lasry-Lions monotonicity assumption.

Organization. The paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we state some useful estimates on McKean-Vlasov SDEs under two different sets of assumptions (see $( \mathcal { H } _ { S D E } 1 )$ and $( \mathcal { H } _ { S D E } 2 ) ,$ ). Section 3 is devoted to the proof of an existence and uniqueness result for the EBSDE (1.6) given by Theorem 3.4. In Section 4, we study the long time behavior of the finite horizon distribution dependent BSDE (1.7) thanks to our EBSDE solution: see Theorem 4.1, Theorem 4.3 and Theorem 4.5. In Section 5, we apply results of Sections 3 and 4 to a partial McKean-Vlasov ergodic control problem and the long-time behavior of a partial McKean-Vlasov control problem. The remaining of the introduction is devoted to notations.

Notations. Let a given filtered complete probability space $( \Omega , \mathbb { F } : = ( \mathbb { F } _ { t } ) _ { t \in \mathbb { R } _ { + } } , \mathbb { P } )$ which supports a ??−Brownian motion denoted ??. Let also, see [23], G be a sub-??-algebra of F such that G is generated by $U \sim U n i f ( [ 0 , 1 ] )$ and is independent of ??. Consequently, we define the filtration $\mathcal { F } = ( \mathcal { F } _ { t } ) _ { t \in \mathbb { R } }$ + by $\mathcal { F } _ { t } = \sigma ( \mathcal { G } \cup \mathbb { F } _ { t } )$ , for all $t \geq 0$ . We also set the following:

1. Spaces: For all $p \geq 1$ , we set:

(a) $\mathrm { L } ^ { p } ( \Omega , \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ the set of $\mathbb { R } ^ { d } .$ -valued random variable admitting finite moment of order ?? endowed with the norm

$$\| \theta \| _ {p} ^ {p} := \| \theta \| _ {\mathrm{L} ^ {p} (\Omega , \mathbb {R} ^ {d})} ^ {p} = \mathbb {E} [ | \theta | ^ {p} ].$$
