# D. Data-Driven Stabilization via the Matrix S-Lemma

To solve the stabilization problem of Section II, we need to find a gain K for the feedback law (21) that stabilizes all systems contained in the uncertainty set E of (29). More precisely, we want to find a single pair of matrices $P \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \mu \times \mu }$ and $K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times \mu }$ such that $P = P ^ { \top } \succ 0$ and, for all $\Theta \in { \pmb { \mathcal { E } } } .$ ,

$$
\left(F + L \Theta \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 _ {n \times \mu} \\ I _ {\mu} \end{array} \right] + G K\right) P + P \left(F + L \Theta \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 _ {n \times \mu} \\ I _ {\mu} \end{array} \right] + G K\right) ^ {\top} \prec 0, \tag {31}
$$

which implies that (6) is Hurwitz by choosing the controller (16), (21). This property can be translated into an inclusion of sets described by QMIs. Using (31), we obtain that the set of all non-minimal realizations stabilized by a specific choice of P and K is

$$
\boldsymbol {\mathcal {C}} (P, K) := \left\{\Theta \in \mathbb {R} ^ {p \times (\mu + n)}: \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {\mu} \\ (L \Theta) ^ {\top} \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} M (P, K) \left[ \begin{array}{c} I _ {\mu} \\ (L \Theta) ^ {\top} \end{array} \right] \succ 0 \right\}, \tag {32}
$$

where

$$
M (P, K) := - \left[ \begin{array}{c c} F P + P F ^ {\top} + G K P + P K ^ {\top} G ^ {\top} & 0 _ {\mu \times n} P \\ \hline 0 _ {n \times \mu} & 0 _ {n + \mu} \\ P & \end{array} \right]. \tag {33}
$$

Then, the property that we want to impose is the following:

$$\boldsymbol {\mathcal {E}} \subseteq \boldsymbol {\mathcal {C}} (P, K). \tag {34}$$

The next statement, which relates (34) with the feasibility of the LMI (S) used in Algorithm 1, is the main result of this work. Its proof is based on the strict matrix S-lemma found in [7, Thm. 4.10].

Theorem 1. Consider Algorithm 1 and let Assumptions 1, 2, and 3 hold. Then, the following statements are equivalent:

1) There exist $P \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \mu \times \mu }$ and $K \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times \mu }$ , with $P =$ $P ^ { \top } \succ 0 ,$ , such that ${ \pmb { \mathscr { E } } } \subseteq { \pmb { \mathscr { C } } } ( P , K )$ .   
2) There exist $P \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \mu \times \mu }$ and $Q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m \times \mu }$ such that the LMI (S) is satisfied.

Moreover, if (S) is feasible, then $K = Q P ^ { - 1 }$ is such that $F + L H + G K$ is Hurwitz and, thus, the controller (11) solves the data-driven stabilization problem of Section II.

Proof: Define the following sets:
