# 6 Results and discussion

The main scope of the article is to investigate the capability of HDMDc and BHDMDc-based ROMs to accurately predict the ship’s response to unseen wave inputs, also in sea conditions that differ from the ones used in model learning. Hence, data from sea state 7 P-M spectrum head waves are used for training, and then the so obtained ROMs are first applied to unseen input waves following the same P-M sea spectrum, and then to regular wave conditions. Results are consequently structured in two parts, namely irregular-to-irregular and irregular-to-regular, reflecting the two testing conditions.

In order to statistically assess the performance of HDMDc and BHDMDc, the ANRMSE and NAMMAE were evaluated for several training and testing sequences. In particular, 10 training sequences and 10 test sequences randomly selected were combined in a full-factorial manner. The same training and test sequences were used for the deterministic and Bayesian versions of the ROM to guarantee a fair comparison. The length of the test time histories for the irregular waves case was $l _ { t e } = 1 5 \hat { T }$ . Due to reduced signal lengths, $l _ { t e } \stackrel { = } { = } 5 \hat { T }$ for regular waves.

For both irregular-to-irregular and irregular-to-regular cases, results are presented as box-violin plots comparing the ANRMSE and NAMMAE for the deterministic and Bayesian ROMs, see Fig. 4 and Fig. 8, respectively. The boxes show the first, second (equivalent to the median value), and third quartiles, while the whiskers extend from the box to the farthest data point lying within 1.5 times the interquartile range, defined as the difference between the third and the first quartiles from the box. The density of the data distribution is additionally represented by the violin shape, providing a visual summary of the distribution beyond the quartiles. The values of the single realizations, including outliers, are plotted with colored dots.

In addition, representative test sequences are shown in Figs. 5 and 6 for irregular-to-irregular and in Figs. 9 to 11 for irregular-to-regular cases. Figures compare the experimental measurements (EFD), the deterministic ROM prediction, and the Bayesian ROM prediction (mean value as solid line and 95% confidence interval as shaded area of the same color).

Finally, the MBB analysis is applied to the irregular-to-irregular case, and PDFs from bootstrapped sequences for EFD and BHDMDc are obtained for each predicted variable, along with their 95% confidence interval, and shown in Fig. 7. The differences between the EFD and BHDMDc distributions are evaluated using JSD, and results are summarized in Table 2.
