Fig. 3: Simulation results of the dynamic allocation. The allocation considers the attainable sets and constraints (maximum torque magnitude and bandwidth limits) of the actuators when distributing the control effort. Two scenarios are presented, both aiming to maximize FES usage (80% and 100%) within its attainable set. (a) Maximum FES usage within its attainable set. (b) Up to 80% FES assistance within its attainable set.

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tau^ {F _ {f}} = \mathbf {1} _ {n _ {f}} ^ {\top} \boldsymbol {\tau} ^ {m _ {f}}, \tag {29} \\ \boldsymbol {\tau} ^ {F _ {e}} = \mathbf {1} _ {n _ {e}} ^ {\top} \boldsymbol {\tau} ^ {m _ {e}}, \\ \end{array}
$$

where $\mathbf { 1 } _ { \rho } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { \rho }$ denotes the column vector of ones of appropriate dimension $\rho . ~ \tau ^ { m _ { f } } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { m _ { f } } }$ and $\tau ^ { m _ { e } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { m e } }$ are the vectors of torque contributions from all flexor and extensor muscle groups in response to FES contributing on joint $j ,$ respectively. Explicitly,

$$
\begin{array}{l} \boldsymbol {\tau} ^ {m _ {f}} = \left[ \tau^ {m _ {f 1}}, \tau^ {m _ {f 2}}, \dots , \tau^ {m _ {f n _ {f}}} \right] ^ {\top}, \tag {30} \\ \pmb {\tau} ^ {m _ {e}} = \left[ \tau^ {m _ {e _ {1}}}, \tau^ {m _ {e _ {2}}},..., \tau^ {m _ {e _ {n _ {e}}}} \right] ^ {\top}, \\ \end{array}
$$

where $n _ { f }$ and $n _ { e }$ denote the number of flexor and extensor muscle groups inducing torque at joint $j ,$ respectively. Each muscle generates only positive tension, but due to opposite moment arms, flexor torques appear with a positive sign and extensor torques with a negative sign in the chosen joint coordinate system.

The proposed dynamic allocation method is capable of exploiting such redundancy. To reflect this, we redefine the torque vector in (4) to represent the torque contributions from each muscle group separately. Given (30), we express the extended torque vector as

$$\boldsymbol {\tau} ^ {+} = \left[ \tau^ {m _ {f _ {1}}}, \dots , \tau^ {m _ {f _ {n f}}}, \tau^ {m _ {e _ {1}}}, \dots , \tau^ {m _ {e _ {n e}}}, \tau^ {E} \right] ^ {\top}, \tag {31}$$

where $\tau ^ { + }$ includes the torques from all flexor muscles, extensor muscles, and the exoskeleton actuator at a given joint $j .$

The superscript $" _ { + } \overrightarrow { }$ is used here to denote the extended structure that distinguishes this formulation from earlier definitions (Section II-A2 and II-A3).
