# 5 System identification setup

In the present work, no equation-based motion model of the ASV is derived or assumed. The reduced-order model is obtained in a fully data-driven and equation-free manner, where the state-space representation of Eq. (3) is identified directly from the experimental measurements through the (Bayesian) Hankel-DMDc (see Box 5.1 for a summary of the workflow for the system identification using HDMDc). The state vector of the system is defined as

$$\mathbf {x} = \left[ x, z, \theta , \dot {x}, \dot {z}, \dot {\theta}, \ddot {x}, \ddot {z}, \ddot {\theta}, M _ {\mathrm{bow}}, M _ {\mathrm{stern}} \right] ^ {T}. \tag {31}$$

The variables in the state vector correspond to the surge, heave, and pitch degrees of freedom, which dominate the symmetric head-sea response of the moored vessel, together with their first and second time derivatives and the measured mooring loads. These quantities reflect the relevant physics of the phenomenon to be predicted by the system identification procedure.

$\eta _ { f w d } ^ { k n }$ inpuand $\eta _ { c o g } ^ { k n }$ ctor is composed of observables based on the wave elevations measured by the Kenek probes, and the model surge x.

$$\mathbf {u} = \left[ \eta_ {f w d}, \eta_ {c o g} \right]. \tag {32}$$

During the experiments, the relative position between the model and the wave probes was not constant, and large deviations from the rest position occurred in the x-direction. The elastic restoring force from the moorings was not sufficient to counteract the thrust by the waves and keep the surge oscillating around the rest position. Hence, directly using the wave elevation in the input vector as measured by the probes would lead to non-negligible phase error in the prediction. The HDMDc and BHDMDc are, in fact, able to learn only a constant phase relation between input and output, which, however, would be insufficient due to the dynamic change of the relative position between probes and model. For this reason, the observables $\eta _ { f w d }$ and $\eta _ { c o g }$ were obtained as delayed signals from $\eta _ { f w d } ^ { k n }$ and $\eta _ { c o g } ^ { k n }$ :

$$\eta_ {f w d} (t) = \eta_ {f w d} ^ {k n} (t - \tau (t)) \tag {33}\eta_ {c o g} (t) = \eta_ {c o g} ^ {k n} (t - \tau (t))$$

where the delay τ depends on the surge x and the wave celerity c:

$$\tau (t) = \frac {x (t) - x _ {0}}{c}. \tag {34}$$
