In connection with Sec. 4.2.4, GP regression can be used to learn Lagrangian and port-Hamiltonian system models (58) from state-input data. Evangelisti and Hirche (2022) introduce a physically constrained formulation of GP regression to respect the structure of Lagrangian systems and guarantee energy conservation. This requires extending the GP kernel to symmetric matrix spaces and using Cholesky decomposition to provide probabilistic guarantees that the energy GP has positive-definite quadratic form. Subsequent work by Evangelisti and Hirche (2024) integrates the Lagrangian GP model into covarianceadaptive momentum observers to enable learning-based external force and disturbance estimation. The GP prediction error bounds are used to establish exponential stability guarantees for the observer. Regarding Hamiltonian systems, Beckers et al. (2022) and Beckers (2023) formulate a joint GP over the Hamiltonian and its partial derivatives and use a specific matrix kernel to guarantee that the GP almost surely generates valid port-Hamiltonian trajectories. As in the deterministic case, the interconnection of two GP port-Hamiltonian systems remains a GP port-Hamiltonian system. The approach is demonstrated to learn the dynamics of an iron ball in the magnetic field of a controlled inductor. The results show that training a GP whose kernel does not capture the port-Hamiltonian system structure requires ten times more samples compared to a GP that does.

Several modern GP libraries designed for large-scale inference with GPU acceleration are available, including GPyTorch (Gardner et al., 2018), GPflow (Matthews et al., 2017), Pyro (Bingham et al., 2019), and GPJax (Pinder and Dodd, 2022). For example, GPJax (Pinder and Dodd, 2022) allows us to learn a dynamics function f from data more accurately by incorporating prior knowledge of the system in a GP regression model in JAX, as shown in Example 4.3.

Example 4.3 (Learning dynamics using GP regression). Consider learning a piecewise-linear system:

$$
y = f (x) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} a x, & \text { if } x \leq x _ {t h}, \\ b x, & \text { if } x > x _ {t h}, \end{array} \right. \tag {63}
$$
