Recent work focuses on embedding prior knowledge to promote physics-informed properties such as Hamiltonian structures (DiPietro et al., 2020; Lee et al., 2022), energy conservation (Holmsen et al., 2023), and stability (Kaptanoglu et al., 2021). Due to the challenges associated with imposing the properties as hard constraints in the SINDy framework, the common practice is to use soft constraints, augmenting the objective function with a penalty term to encourage the desired physical behavior. As a representative example, we consider the ‘trapping $\operatorname { S I N D y } ^ { \prime }$ framework (Kaptanoglu et al., 2021) that preserves system stability during identification. Trapping SINDy is particularly applicable to fluid and plasma flows with an energy-preserving, quadratic nonlinear structure. Using the standard Lyapunov function $V ( x ) = { \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \| x \| ^ { 2 }$ , a sufficient condition for stability of the dynamics (54) is given by $x ^ { \top } f ( x ) = 0$ . Since the vector field $f ( x )$ is quadratic, the inner product of $x ^ { \top } f ( x )$ is cubic polynomial. Therefore, we can eliminate the self-coupled cubic terms such as $x _ { i } ^ { 3 }$ and impose an antisymmetric structure on cross terms of the form $x _ { i } x _ { j } ^ { 2 }$ , so that their contributions are canceled. Such conditions, termed as energypreserving quadratic nonlinearity constraints, ensure that only quadratic components of $x ^ { \top } f ( x )$ remain. These conditions can be collectively expressed as a set of linear equality constraints, compactly denoted as $r ( \Xi ) \triangleq \mathcal { R } \nu e c ( \Xi ) = 0$ , where R is an appropriate constant matrix and vec(Ξ) is the vectorized form of Ξ. Then, we can obtain a stable nonlinear system model of the form (55) by solving the following optimization problem:

$$\min _ {\Xi} \frac {1}{2} \| \dot {X} - \Theta (X) \Xi \| _ {F} ^ {2} + \lambda \| \Xi \| _ {1} + \alpha \| r (\Xi) \| _ {2} ^ {2}, \tag {57}$$

where $\lambda > 0$ and $\alpha > 0$ weight the sparsity of the model and the λ > α >stability preservation conditions respectively, and can be suitably adjusted to balance accuracy, sparsity, and physically consistent behavior. Several simulation examples illustrating this approach for concrete examples such as the atmospheric oscillator model and the Lorenz system are available in Kaptanoglu et al. (2024).
