| Date | Groundtruth | NN | PINN | PINN+NN |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 06/01 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 |
| 06/03 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 |
| 06/05 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 |
| 06/07 | ~72 | ~72 | ~72 | ~72 |
| 06/09 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 |
| 06/11 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 | ~74 |
| 06/13 | ~72 | ~72 | ~72 | ~72 |
</details>

Figure 12: Temperature predictions for 15-minute (top) and 3-hour (bottom) horizons, using one week data for training and the rest for testing.

where $x _ { i } ( t ) , \ x _ { o } ( t ) , \ x _ { s } ( t )$ are the indoor temperature of zone $i ,$ the outdoor temperature, and the temperature of supply air. $N _ { i }$ is the set of rooms that are adjacent to room i, $c _ { p }$ is the specific heat capacity of the air, and $p _ { i }$ is the internal heat gain. ui(t) denotes the supply air flow rate, which is the control action. Parameters $\{ C _ { i } , R _ { o i } , R _ { j i } , c _ { p } , p _ { i } \}$ are to be identified from data , , ,through the PINN training.

In comparison, a standard NN model, as defined in Sec 5.1.1, without prior knowledge can be learned,

$$\dot {x} _ {i} = f _ {\theta_ {i}} (x _ {i} (t), u _ {i} (t), x _ {\mathcal {N} _ {i}} (t), x _ {o} (t), x _ {s} (t)), \quad N N$$

where $\theta _ { i }$ are the NN parameters to be learned for zone i.

θIt is also interesting to consider a combined approach that combines a PINN and a NN,

$$C _ {i} \dot {x} _ {i} = \frac {x _ {o} (t) - x _ {i} (t)}{R _ {o i}} + \sum_ {j \in N _ {i}} \frac {x _ {j} (t) - x _ {i} (t)}{R _ {j i}} + f _ {\theta_ {i}} ^ {\prime} \left(x _ {i} (t), u _ {i} (t), x _ {s} (t)\right), P I N N + N N$$

where the learnable parameters are the combination of the NN parameters $\theta _ { i }$ and PINN parameters $\{ C _ { i } , R _ { o i } , R _ { j i } \}$ .

θ , ,We train the three models to learn the thermal dynamics of one building zone. Two forecasting horizons are considered: 15 minutes (short-term prediction) and 3 hours (long-term prediction). The training data includes 7-day periods at a 15-minute resolution. Prediction results are presented in Figure 12. For the 15-minute horizon, all methods achieve high accuracy with errors below 0.02 degrees Fahrenheit. For the 3-hour horizon, incorporating physics priors enables the PINN and the combined approach to outperform the standard FNN, with PINN delivering the best test performance across both horizons.

We end this subsection by comparing incorporating controlrelevant properties via soft and hard constraints. We consider a case study of learning a stable dynamical system with Lyapunov stability constraint.
