$$
\begin{array}{l} D ^ {+} V (x (t)) = \max _ {(i, j) \in I (t)} D ^ {+} V _ {i j} (x _ {i} (t)) \\ \leq \max _ {(i, j) \in I (t)} - \Psi_ {i j} \left(V _ {i j} \left(x _ {i} (t)\right)\right) \\ \leq \max _ {(i, j) \in I (t)} - \Psi \left(V _ {i j} \left(x _ {i} (t)\right)\right) \\ = - \Psi (V (x (t))), \\ \end{array}
$$

where the first equality follows from [39, Lemma 2.9]. The trajectories are bounded on $[ 0 , T _ { \mathrm { m a x } } )$ , and hence they are defined for all $t \geq 0$ . This concludes the proof. ■

Our approach is inspired by the ideas from [24], [27], in that we leverage the gain functions $\gamma _ { i }$ to construct a FxT-ISS Lyapunov function candidate defined in the max form (11). To ensure that the FxT-ISS Lyapunov function properties are preserved, we also utilize the power-function-based scaling technique introduced in [27]. However, since [27] studies finite time stability notions, it is sufficient in their setting for the gains $\hat { \gamma } _ { i } ( \cdot )$ to only have a class ${ \kappa } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ approximation near the origin. On the other hand, since we consider the global notion of fixed-time stability, we require that the class $\bar { \kappa } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ approximation holds globally. One challenge that arises is that if $\hat { \gamma } _ { 1 } , \hat { \gamma } _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ , the small-gain condition will never be satisfied if there is $\textbf { a } \hat { \gamma } _ { i }$ containing terms with different powers. To address this limitation, we also consider cases where $\hat { \gamma } _ { i } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { - P }$ , and we show in Lemma 8 of the Appendix that such functions can also be appropriately scaled to preserve the FxT-ISS Lyapunov function property. It is also useful to note that we generalize the class of permissible gain functions from [38] by now allowing negative coefficients in class ${ \kappa } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ functions.

Remark 2: While most functions in the class $\kappa _ { \infty } ^ { - P }$ do not have a closed-form expression, this is notproblematic for the use of Theorem 1. Indeed, if $\hat { \gamma } _ { i } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { - \bar { P } } ,$ then $\hat { \gamma } _ { i } ^ { - 1 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ , so we can use the following equivalence

$$V _ {i} (x _ {i}) \geq \hat {\gamma} _ {i} (V _ {j} (x _ {j})) \Longleftrightarrow \hat {\gamma} _ {i} ^ {- 1} (V _ {i} (x _ {i})) \geq V _ {j} (x _ {j}),$$

to verify (8) in a simplified manner. Moreover, if $\hat { \gamma } _ { 1 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ and $\hat { \gamma } _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { - P }$ , we can leverage the following fact

$$\hat {\gamma} _ {1} \circ \hat {\gamma} _ {2} (s) < s \Longleftrightarrow \hat {\gamma} _ {1} (s) < \hat {\gamma} _ {2} ^ {- 1} (s), \tag {12}$$

to verify the small-gain condition. Since $\hat { \gamma } _ { 2 } ^ { - 1 } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \infty } ^ { P }$ , the condition $\hat { \gamma } _ { 1 } ( s ) < \hat { \gamma } _ { 2 } ^ { - 1 } ( s )$ can be checked using straightforward methods, such as Lemma 1. □
