In parallel, several studies have explored joint optimisation of imaging systems and perception tasks, consistently outperforming traditional decoupled pipelines. Klinghoffer et al. [25] introduced a reinforcement learning (RL)-based framework that jointly trains a camera-design network and a perception model, supporting both discrete and continuous parameters as well as non-differentiable simulations. Yan et al. [53] improved this process by directly optimising camera parameters with a derivative-free (DF) optimiser, improving efficiency while retaining support for non-differentiable components. Yet, these works do not account for the role of ACC algorithms in the joint optimisation process.

In this work, we present the first end-to-end framework that jointly optimises fixed camera hardware parameters, ACC algorithms, and downstream perception models (Fig. 1). Since many camera parameters are inherently discrete, and many established large-scale simulators with realistic physics for dynamic scenes are non-differentiable, we design the method to support continuous and discrete parameters, as well as non-differentiable image formation processes. Inspired by [53], we employ a genetic algorithm (GA) [19] to optimise hardware in a non-differentiable simulator, while using a gradient-based optimiser for perception tasks. Our key innovation is DF-Grad, a hybrid training strategy that combines gradient-based optimisation with supervision from a derivative-free optimiser to train the ACC algorithm. This enables ACC learning under realistic, nondifferentiably rendered image effects.

We validate our method on camera design problems requiring dynamic adjustment of exposure parameters and study the influence of hardware and ACC algorithms on task performance. Experiments show that our joint optimisation scheme consistently outperforms prior methods, especially in challenging conditions with low illumination and strong motion blur. In summary, our contributions are:
