Given the advanced modeling capabilities of RNNs for dynamical systems, it is not surprising that they are popular choices for system identification and control. Early applications of RNNs and their variants for system identification can be found in Delgado et al. (1995); Wang and Chen (2006); Wang (2017). The identified models can be used for decision making and control (Pan and Wang, 2011). Notable recent advances include convex RNNs (Chen et al., 2018b) for system identification, thus leading to a convex model predictive control (MPC) problem with optimality guarantee. For interested readers, we refer to Bonassi et al. (2022) for a recent survey of RNN models for system identification and learning-based control.

As an emerging direction, Transformer networks (Vaswani et al., 2017) are considered a promising alternative to RNNs for sequence modeling and system identification. Geneva and Zabaras (2022) proposes to apply the self-attention Transformers for physical dynamics modeling, which allows the model to learn longer and more complex temporal dependencies with Koopman-based embedding. For spatiotemporal dynamics, Han et al. (2022) incorporates a graph-based method for the spatial relationships and the Transformer for temporal dynamics. Park et al. (2023) customizes the Transformer for model predictive control, where the Transformers are implemented for multistep-ahead prediction. Besides modeling ODE systems, Transformers have recently emerged as a promising tool for surrogate modeling of partial differential equations (PDEs) (Li et al., 2023). Because of its good performance, Transformers are widely adopted for different applications such as traffic flow (Xu et al., 2020; Reza et al., 2022), fluid flow (Solera-Rico et al., 2024; Hassanian et al., 2023), mechatronic systems (Ayankoso and Olejnik, 2023), and etc.
