# 6.1. Control-relevant Properties in the Behavioral Framework

In this section, we review the direct verification of dissipativity (Maupong et al., 2017; Romer et al., 2019a) and more general input-output properties (Koch et al., 2021) for LTI systems from data based on Willems’ fundamental lemma (Willems et al., 2005a) as described in Section 2.1. Since the fundamental lemma characterizes finite horizon trajectories of systems, Maupong et al. (2017) introduce the notion of L-dissipativity.

Definition 6.1 (L-dissipativity). The discrete-time LTI system (12) is L-dissipative with respect to the supply rate $s ( u , y ) =$

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} u \\ y \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} \Pi \left[ \begin{array}{c} u \\ y \end{array} \right] i f

\sum_ {k = 0} ^ {L - 1} \left[ \begin{array}{l} u _ {k} \\ y _ {k} \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} \Pi \left[ \begin{array}{l} u _ {k} \\ y _ {k} \end{array} \right] \geq 0, \tag {75}
$$

for all input-output trajectories $\{ u _ { k } , y _ { k } \} _ { k = 0 } ^ { L - 1 }$ of (12) with initial condition $x _ { 0 } = 0$ .

Note that the dissipativity in Definition 6.1 is given in an input-output setting, and thus does not include a storage function. For the relationship of this notion to the classical definition of dissipativity in a state-space and input-output setting, we refer to Hill and Moylan (1980).

The key idea to verify L-dissipativity from a single measured trajectory is to parameterize all trajectories of length L of LTI system (12) with $x _ { 0 } = 0 ,$ , as required in condition (75), by the fundamental lemma (13). By the resulting condition on the parameter  together with the application of Finsler’s lemma, αRomer et al. (2019a, (Theorem 2)) provides a computationally appealing linear matrix inequality (LMI) to check whether an LTI system is L-dissipative based on a single measured trajectory. Extensions of this result include data-driven dissipativity verification for LPV systems (Verhoek et al., 2024) using the fundamental lemma for LPV systems (Verhoek et al., 2021b). Furthermore, for linear systems, Koch et al. (2021) investigates the determination of optimal input-output properties characterized by time domain IQCs.
