# 6.5. Results

Tab. 1 and Tab. 2 report quantitative results for experiments on synthetic and real-world data. For synthetic images, performance is measured using mAP@0.5-0.95 IoU and the TP ratio; for real-world data, only mAP is reported as FoV is fixed. Qualitative results from the synthetic data are displayed in Fig. 3, and qualitative results from the realworld data are presented in the supplementary material.

Synthetic Images Under calibrated conditions with high SNR and mild motion blur, our method achieves slightly better performance than existing approaches. In more challenging scenarios, it significantly outperforms all baselines.

In low-SNR scenarios with stronger noise, NeuralAE increases exposure time and reduces gain to reduce noise, following (1) and (3). This amplifies motion blur, degrading task performance. The effect is most severe with the FLIR camera, which requires longer exposure due to its small pixels. In contrast, our method effectively balances exposure time and gain through the DF-Grad method while adapting the hardware design. Specifically, it selects larger pixels under high-noise conditions to improve SNR, and smaller pixels in high-SNR settings to maximise resolution. The method using TaCOS combined with AverageAE fails to adapt to noise, as AverageAE adjusts the dynamic parameters only based on mean intensity. Meanwhile, TaCOS compensates for the low SNR by using large pixels.

Table 3. Ablation study on learning the ACC network without the GA supervision, with fixed perturbation values, and freezing the object detection network when optimising the camera hardware and ACC network.
