where each $\phi _ { i } ( x )$ is a scalar function of the state, and u is ϕincluded in its original form to preserve control-affine structure. Typical examples of $\phi _ { i } ( x )$ include monomials (for polynoϕmial lifting), radial basis functions, Fourier modes, or features learned by a neural network. Then, the high-dimensional observable is defined as ${ \boldsymbol { z } } \triangleq \Phi ( { \boldsymbol { x } } ) \triangleq \left\lceil \phi _ { 1 } ( { \boldsymbol { x } } ) , \phi _ { 2 } ( { \boldsymbol { x } } ) , \dots , \phi _ { n _ { z } } ( { \boldsymbol { x } } ) \right\rceil ^ { \intercal }$ ∈ ϕ , ϕ , . . . , ϕRnz , and the Koopman linear model of the nonlinear dynamics (3) can be written as

$$z ^ {+} = A z + B u \quad y = C z + D u. \tag {41}$$

In discrete time, $z ^ { + }$ denotes the lifted state at the next time step, $z _ { k + 1 }$ , while in continuous time it denotes the time derivative ˙z.

Given trajectory data, data-driven methods such as Dynamic Mode Decomposition (DMD) (Rowley et al., 2009), Extended DMD (EDMD) (Williams et al., 2015), and Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics (SINDy) (Brunton et al., 2016) are commonly used to learn the Koopman operators and to design controllers Korda and Mezic´ (2018). Mauroy and Goncalves (2016); Haseli and Cortés (2023) improve the methods addressing accuracy and efficiency issues and Strässer et al. (2025) provides closed-loop guarantees. Neural networks can also be employed to learn the lifting functions in the Koopman operator framework (Yeung et al., 2019; Zinage and Bakolas, 2023; Hao et al., 2024).

While Koopman operator models can be trained to accurately approximate system behavior, control-relevant properties are not inherently guaranteed. To address this, efforts have been made to impose physics-informed and control-relevant constraints on Koopman operator models. Stability in learning the Koopman operator can be achieved by limiting the parameterization to Hurwitz matrices (Bevanda et al., 2022), or by establishing an equivalence between stability conditions on the Koopman model and contraction criteria, which can be embedded into constrained optimal control formulations (Fan et al., 2022, 2024; Wang et al., 2024). Alternatively, stability can be enforced by applying a suitable control barrier function or control Lyapunov function-based gradient descent during the iterative learning process (Mitjans et al., 2024; Huang et al., 2018).
