The first reason to insist on such properties when learning a model is that they may provide a useful inductive bias to the learning algorithm. The possible choices of a model that can explain the given (or training) input-output data are many; the only test for utility among such models is the ability to generalize to unseen (or test) data. Constraining the learned model to display properties that we know hold from physics or system structure is potentially a strong and useful inductive bias to the learning algorithm. Even if the learned model yields some ground on the error criterion over the training data, a physicsconstrained model will likely have better generalization ability.

The second reason for ensuring that such properties are satisfied by the learned model is that several decades of developments in control synthesis explicitly utilize these properties to provide provable guarantees. In control engineering applications, the aim is typically not to just learn an open-loop model using the input-output data, but rather to utilize this model for control design with desired closed-loop characteristics. Many methods for controller design utilize properties such as dissipativity and monotonicity to obtain guarantees on closedloop system behavior. For instance, compositionality properties of dissipative and monotone systems have been widely leveraged for scalable control designs in networked systems. If the learned model also displays such properties that we expect to be satisfied from physics, similar controller synthesis procedures can be used and strong guarantees on the closed-loop system behavior can be obtained.
