# 2.3.3. Monotonicity

Monotone systems have outputs that change in a consistent direction in response to changes in inputs. Similar to dissipativity, this property simplifies the model analysis and control design by providing guarantees about the direction of the system responses. A special case of monotonicity is positivity of the dynamics, where the state variables are constrained to be positive. This corresponds to the physics of several systems such as reaction networks where the concentration of a chemical species cannot be negative.

Monotone systems feature in several control applications of interest, including chemical reaction networks (Leenheer et al., 2007), biological systems (Angeli, 2021), epidemiological processes (Brauer et al., 2012), and traffic flow networks (Lovisari et al., 2014; Coogan and Arcak, 2015). In fact, most compartmental flow networks, which describe the flow of a commodity (such as traffic or a reactant) from one compartment to another under a conservation law, follow monotone dynamics (Haddad et al., 2010). Cooperation and competition dynamics in populations and teams can also be modeled using monotone systems (Hirsch and Smith, 2005; Smith, 2017). From a control standpoint, monotonicity is an important property that can be exploited for distributed stability analysis (Coogan, 2019), reachability analysis (Althoff et al., 2021), and control design (Shiromoto et al., 2018; Rantzer and Bernhardsson, 2014; Cui et al., 2024) in large-scale networks. This is due to the fact that linear monotone systems admit Lyapunov functions that are separable in terms of the Lyapunov functions corresponding to individual state variables, allowing for compositional stability verification (Haddad et al., 2010). These compositional properties also extend to certain classes of nonlinear monotone systems (Dirr et al., 2015). Mathematically, monotonicity of dynamical systems is defined below, following Angeli and Sontag (2003).

Definition 2.5 (Monotone Systems). Consider a controlled dynamical system f as defined in $( 3 ) \ \dot { x } = \ f ( x , u )$ . Assume that solution $x ( t ) = \phi ( t , x _ { 0 } , u )$ ,with initial condition $x ( 0 ) = x _ { 0 }$ . The ϕ , ,dynamics f is said to be monotone if the following implication holds for all $t \geq 0 .$ :

$$u _ {1} \succeq u _ {2}, x _ {1} \succeq x _ {2} \Rightarrow \phi (t, x _ {1}, u _ {1}) \succeq \phi (t, x _ {2}, u _ {2}),$$

for a suitably defined ordering ⪰  The typical case for the ordering $y \ge z f o r y , z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . means each coordinate of y is $b i g \mathbf { - }$ - ,ger or equal than the corresponding coordinate of z. However, other orderings could be induced bRn other than the positive orthants $K = \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ g other orthants in.
