# 5.2.2. Hamiltonian Neural Networks

Consider the Hamiltonian dynamics of the form,

$$\frac {d q}{d t} = \frac {\partial H}{\partial p}, \frac {d p}{d t} = - \frac {\partial H}{\partial q}, \tag {69}$$

where $q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $p \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ are the generalized coordinates and momentum of a system. H denotes the total energy of the system, and the Hamilton’s equations of motion (69) guarantees that $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { d H } { d t } \ = \ 0 . } \end{array}$ , i.e. the total energy is conserved along the trajectory. To express the Hamiltonian dynamics in the standard state-space form consistent with Eq. (3), one can define the state vector $x = ( q , p ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ and write the dynamics as $\dot { x } = f ( x ) = J \nabla _ { x } H ( x )$ ,. With control inputs, the Hamiltonian dynamics can be modified by an additional forcing term that influences the state evolution by injecting or dissipating energy.

Hamiltonian Neural Networks (HNNs) (Greydanus et al., 2019) parametrize the conserved energy function $\mathcal { H } ( q , p ; \theta )$ 号 rather than directly learning the system dynamics $f .$ , θ By enforcing the Hamiltonian structure, HNNs provide a principled way to embed hard physical constraints such as energy conservation into the learned model. The training loss of HNN follows

$$c _ {H N N} (\theta) = \left\| \frac {d q}{d t} - \frac {\partial \mathcal {H} _ {\theta}}{\partial p} \right\| _ {2} + \left\| \frac {d p}{d t} + \frac {\partial \mathcal {H} _ {\theta}}{\partial q} \right\| _ {2},$$

where  are parameters of the HNN. Bertalan et al. (2019) exθtends the HNN approach to handle observations of the coordinates q and momentum p from images. The Hamilton’s dynamics are modeled using a neural network on a latent space, learned from the observations using an auto-encoder. The autoencoder and the Hamiltonian dynamics model are trained simultaneously to minimize loss function $c _ { H N N } ( \theta )$ .
