$$\frac {d}{d t} \nabla_ {\dot {q}} L (t, q, \dot {q}) - \nabla_ {q} L (t, q, \dot {q}) = u \tag {22}$$

where L is the Lagrangian. Using the chain rule to expand the time derivative through the gradient of the Lagrangian and a neural network to parameterize $L _ { \theta }$ leads to a parametric model θof the system dynamics that encodes the Lagrangian structure:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left[ \begin{array}{l} \dot {q} \\ \ddot {q} \end{array} \right] = f _ {\theta} (q, \dot {q}, u) \tag {23} \\ = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0 & 1 \\ 0 & - (\nabla_ {\dot {q}} \nabla_ {\dot {q}} ^ {\top} L _ {\theta}) ^ {- 1} \nabla_ {q} \nabla_ {\dot {q}} ^ {\top} L _ {\theta} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} q \\ \dot {q} \end{array} \right] + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ (\nabla_ {\dot {q}} \nabla_ {\dot {q}} ^ {\top} L _ {\theta}) ^ {- 1} \end{array} \right] (\nabla_ {q} L _ {\theta} + u). \\ \end{array}
$$

As an example of imposing a hard constraint on the model parameters $\theta ,$ we consider requiring that the identified system θmodel is internally stable in the Lyapunov sense. Gaby et al. (2022) propose a candidate Lyapunov function of the form:

$$V _ {\theta} (x) = \left\| \phi_ {\theta} (x) - \phi_ {\theta} (0) \right\| ^ {2} + \alpha \| x \| ^ {2}, \tag {24}$$

where $\alpha > 0$ and $\phi _ { \theta } ( x )$ is a fully connected neural network with α > ϕθparameters  and tanh activations. This construction ensures that $V _ { \theta } ( 0 ) = 0$ and $V _ { \theta } ( x ) \geq \alpha \| x \| ^ { 2 } > 0$ for $x \neq 0$ as required by θ θ α >Theorem 2.1. The last condition in that result for $V _ { \theta } ( x )$ to be θa valid Lyapunov function can be ensured by imposing a hard constraint in (21) of the form:

$$g (\theta) = \int \max \{\dot {V} _ {\theta} (x) + \gamma \| x \|, 0 \} d x \leq 0, \tag {25}$$

where $\gamma > 0$ and the time derivative of $V _ { \theta } ( x )$ is computed along γ > θthe system trajectory. In practice, the integral in (25) is approximated with a finite number of samples.

Finally, an example of imposing structure through soft constraints (parameter regularization) is the use of Gershgorin circle theorem (Lechner et al., 2020) to encourage the eigenvalues of $A _ { \theta }$ in a linear system model (5) to be negative. This can be θachieved by adding a regularization term $r ( \theta )$ to the cost function in (21) of the form:

$$r (\theta) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n} \max \{0, [ A _ {\theta} ] _ {i, i} + \sum_ {j \neq i} | [ A _ {\theta} ] _ {i, j} | + \epsilon \}, \tag {26}$$
