# 4.1.3. Soft Constraints

In several system identification problems, hard constraints as described in Section 4.1.2, while desirable in terms of provably guaranteeing control-relevant properties, are challenging to impose. For instance, efficiently solving such formulations requires convex parameterizations of the constraints which may not be possible. Even if such parameterizations are available, direct imposition during learning is rarely adopted, and a twostage perturbation or projection approach is often employed (Pintelon and Schoukens, 2012) due to issue of model bias as described in Section 4.1.2.

Instead, it may be easier to obtain system models satisfying desired properties like stability or passivity by imposing soft constraints in the form of regularization terms as in the identification problem (21). While such approaches may not possess theoretical guarantees of yielding an identified model that satisfies the desired property, they nonetheless often yield property-preserving models in practice. These soft constraint based identification approaches may be particularly attractive in online system identification applications, where minimal violations of desired properties may be tolerated in favor of decreased computational complexity. As an example of such an approach, we now illustrate how soft constraints can help to enforce dissipativity-type properties in system identification.

Consider the problem of identifying a positive real discretetime linear state-space model of the form (12). Then, as described in Goethals et al. (2003), the cost function in (21) can be modified to obtain a positive real model parameterized by $\theta = ( A , C )$ as

$$c (\theta , \mathcal {W}) = c _ {1} (\theta) + r (\theta).$$

Here, the term

$$
c _ {1} (\theta) = \left\| \left[ \begin{array}{c} \hat {X} _ {k + 1} \\ Y _ {k} \end{array} \right] - \left[ \begin{array}{c} A \\ C \end{array} \right] \hat {X} _ {k} \right\| _ {F} ^ {2} \tag {34}
$$

is employed to minimize model error with respect to the inputoutput data. Additionally, the regularization term

$$
r (\theta) = \operatorname{Tr} \left(\left[ \begin{array}{l} A \\ C \end{array} \right] ^ {\top} W \left[ \begin{array}{l} A \\ C \end{array} \right]\right), \quad W > 0 \tag {35}
$$
