# 4.1.2. Hard Constraints

Consider the problem of identifying a linear system (5) with parameters $( A , B , C , D )$ Convex formulations of constraints for , , , .special cases like positive real systems and passive systems as defined in Section 2.3.2 are considered in works such as Hoagg et al. (2004); Coelho et al. (2004). For example, (16) can be directly imposed as hard constraints while minimizing traditional identification objectives such as error between the actual system outputs and the predicted outputs from the identified model.

However, directly imposing hard constraints during identification is often not desirable since it may introduce uncontrollable model bias (Pintelon and Schoukens, 2012). To understand this, consider the identification problem posed in (14). This problem can be viewed as filtering out the noise in the observed input-output data to obtain the best model fit. Thus, the cost function should ideally be weighted by the inverse of the noise variance. Adding hard constraints to this problem introduces a fundamental tradeoff since it does not hold a priori that model achieving the best noise variance will satisfy these hard constraints. For example, in the frequency domain, the model errors corresponding to this constraint and those corresponding to noise filtering may be distributed in different ranges in the frequency spectrum. In order to address this challenge, hard constraints such as dissipativity are often imposed through a two-stage identification process. First, the unconstrained optimization problem (14) is solved to identify a model that achieves the best fit to the observed system behavior. Then, a small perturbation is introduced in the parameters to ensure that the perturbed values satisfy the hard constraints while minimizing deviation from the original model. Let ˆ be the solution to the unconstrained problem (14), and let $G _ { \theta _ { p } } ( s )$ be the perturbed model with parameter values $\theta _ { p }$ θthat satisfy the desired θconstraints. Then, in frequency domain identification, the constrained optimization problem in (21) is modified to minimize the cost function $c ( \theta , \mathcal { W } ) = | | G _ { \theta } ( s ) - G _ { \theta _ { p } } ( s ) | | _ { F } ^ { 2 }$ where || · ||F deθ, θ θnotes the Frobenius norm, with hard constraints $g ( \theta _ { p } )$ on model $G _ { \theta _ { p } } ( s )$ θ corresponding to the desired property, such as (17) or (18). In essence, this approach attempts to find the minimal deviation from the best unconstrained model that satisfies the desired hard constraints. A similar perturbation approach can be employed in the state space setting to enforce hard constraints corresponding to the desired property, such as the dissipativity constraint in (16). Here, we demonstrate through an example how passivity constraints can be enforced through such a perturbation approach.
