# 7.2. Network Identification

A related problem is the identification of network structure itself from the data. In other words, consider an interconnected system as before, but now the interconnection structure is unknown and needs to be estimated from the data along with the parameters of the nodes describing the dynamical subsystems and edges describing the interconnections. This problem naturally arises in a variety of settings, with a concrete example being the identification of the structure of infrastructure systems such as the distribution grid in power systems or transportation network flows. There are classical fields such as network tomography (Vardi, 1996; Coates et al., 2002) that address such a problem, although typically under simplifications such as absent or known node dynamics. From the domain of data science, a powerful idea that has been used in fields such as identification of gene regulatory networks is that if the observations from different nodes could be treated purely as a data series, one could associate statistical closeness among the series (as measured using quantities such as mutual information) with a weighted edge between the nodes (Villaverde et al., 2014). Extensions such as considering directed mutual information have been proposed to include directed edges that represent which node affects the other one.

Recent developments in causal inference (Pearl, 2010) have also aimed to consider similar problems of identifying causal networks whereby random variables representing data series at nodes affect each other causally. Granger causality (Granger, 2001) based methods have emerged as particularly powerful when the nodes represent random processes, as in the general framework considered in this paper. However, Granger causality based approaches necessitate presence of delays in the dynamic dependencies. New techniques have been proposed for the case when the nodes represent linear time-invariant subsystems (Veedu et al., 2023). However, it is fair to say that the general problem when the node dynamics can be non-linear, edges may have dynamics, and partial information about the network structure may be available, remains largely open.
