$\ b { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the state vector, $u ( t ) \in \mathbb { R }$ is the control input; $d \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { 1 }$ represents the matched disturbances, where $\| d \| _ { \infty } \leq \Delta$ for a given ∆ > 0 (further, we denote by D the set of all inputs $d \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { 1 }$ with $\| d \| _ { \infty } < \Delta , D = \{ d \in \mathbb { R } : | d | \leq \Delta \} )$ ; the mismatched disturbance $\delta \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { n }$ is acting on the main dynamics, and we will assume that $b ^ { \top } \delta ( t ) = 0$ for all $t \geq 0 , \mathrm { i . e . }$ , the matched component of δ is included in $d ;$ the entire state vector $x ( t )$ is assumed to be measured by the output $\ b { y } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ subject to the noise $w \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { n }$ . Recall that many controllable systems can be presented in the form (2.1) also including the remaining terms in the disturbances d and δ (which may be dependent on x provided that their uniform boundedness is kept).

It is required to find a control law that globally stabilizes (2.1) at the origin uniformly in any disturbance $d \in \mathcal { D }$ while $\| w \| _ { \infty } = \| \delta \| _ { \infty } = 0$ , and achieving ISS property for $\delta \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { n }$ and $w \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { n } .$ providing an accelerated rate of convergence. Nevertheless, we allow the control function u to be dependent on the past values of the output y(t) being discontinuous with respect to x, hence, this paper utilizes the theory of [17] to define the solutions.

3. Preliminaries. In this section, first, the HOSMC design based on ILF is recalled, next for time-delay systems several definitions of stability with accelerated convergence rates are given, together with the Lyapunov-Razumikhin conditions establishing these properties. Finally, the ISS definition with related Lyapunov-Razumikhin result are formulated.

Following the problem statement, we look for the control design ensuring an accelerated convergence in the noise-free case and the ISS property in the presence of a bounded noise w and state perturbation $\delta ,$ uniformly with respect to the matched disturbance d, while the definitions and the Lyapunov-Razumikhin conditions presented below consider these properties separately, as they usually given in the literature. In the paper we will straightforwardly combine them to get the required result.
