# 5. Joint Optimisation

Fig. 2 illustrates our joint optimisation of camera hardware, ACC algorithms, and perception tasks. At each training step, the ACC algorithm predicts dynamic parameters from the image from the previous step, which are then used to adjust the image rendered by the camera at the current step. The adjusted image is fed into the perception model for evaluation. The perception task provides a fitness function to update camera hardware and a loss function to update the perception model. Our proposed DF-Grad method then combines the task’s fitness and loss functions to update the ACC network. Optimisation details are given below.

Camera Hardware We optimise the camera hardware using a GA, jointly with the ACC and perception models. GA is well-suited for this problem because it supports both continuous and discrete camera parameters and is compatible with non-differentiable simulations. This allows us to optimise all hardware parameters supported by the simulation. For example, our first experiment uses the CARLA simulator [13], which supports parameters including placement (location and orientation), optics (focal length and aperture), image sensor (width, height, and pixel count), and multi-camera configurations (number of cameras and their poses). Other parameters can be included depending on the simulator. Further implementation details of the GA are provided in Sec. 6 and the supplementary material.

Following [53], we adopt the “quantised continuous variables” technique introduced in [9] for categorical parameters with internal dependencies. For instance, when selecting an image sensor from a catalogue, the optimiser operates over internal properties such as pixel size and dimensions, by treating them as continuous variables and then replacing them with their nearest catalogue values.

The fitness function guiding this optimisation is defined using the task performance metric.
