# C. Communication Links

As illustrated in Fig. 2, the communication links between controller and observer nodes, which are referred to as C-O links, enable observer nodes to receive control inputs and controller nodes to receive state estimates. C-O links are responsible for delivering $u _ { i }$ to the ??th observer node and $\hat { x } _ { i ^ { \prime } }$ to the ??th controller node. The topology of C-O links can be designed freely, provided that Assumption 6 listed in Section II-E is satisfied.

The communication links among observer nodes, referred to as O-O links, enable the exchange of state estimates among the observer nodes. The topology of O-O links can be characterized using an undirected graph introduced below. This topology can also be designed freely, provided that Assumption 5 listed in Section II-E is satisfied.

A graph $\mathcal { G } = ( N , \mathcal { E } )$ is composed of a finite nonempty node set $N = \{ 1 , 2 , \cdots , N \}$ , and an edge set $\mathcal { E } \subseteq N \times N$ , whose elements are ordered pairs of nodes. An edge originating from node ?? and ending at node ?? is denoted by $( j , i ) \in \mathcal { E }$ , which represents the direction of the information flow between the two nodes. The adjacency matrix of $\mathcal { G }$ is defined as $\mathcal { A } =$ $[ a _ { i j } ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$ , where $a _ { i j }$ is a positive weight of the edge $( j , i )$ when $( j , i ) \in \mathcal { E }$ , otherwise $a _ { i j }$ is zero. We assume that the graph has no self-loops, i.e., $a _ { i i } = 0 , \forall i \in N$ . The Laplacian matrix $\begin{array} { r } { l _ { i i } = \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { N } a _ { i k } } \end{array}$ $\mathcal { L } = [ l _ { i j } ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$ and $l _ { i j } = - a _ { i j } , \ \forall i , j \in N , \ i \neq j . \ \mathrm { A }$ of graph G is constructed by letting directed path from node ?? to node ?? is a sequence of edges $( i _ { k - 1 } , ~ i _ { k } ) \in$ $\delta , \ k = 1 , 2 , \cdots , \bar { k }$ , where $i _ { 0 } = i , ~ i _ { \bar { k } } = j$ . Graph G is said to be undirected if $a _ { i j } = a _ { j i } , \forall i , j \in N$ . An undirected graph is said to be connected if there exists at least one directed path from node ?? to node $j , \forall i , j \in N , i \neq j$ .
