# 5.3. Hard Constraints

One way to introduce hard constraints into learning-based system identification is to first solve the unconstrained system identification problem in (14) and project the solution to the constraint set in (21). On this line, Kolter and Manek (2019) proposes to jointly learn a dynamics model f and Lyapunov function V, both as neural networks, where the dynamics are inherently constrained to be stable. Whenever the learned f does not meet the Lyapunov stability constraints, it is projected to the following constraint set,

$$\operatorname{Proj} \left(\hat {f} (x), \{f: \nabla V (x) ^ {\top} f (x) \leq - \alpha V (x) \})\right) :=\hat {f} (x) - \nabla V (x) \frac {\nabla V (x) ^ {\top} \hat {f} (x) + \alpha V (x)}{\| \nabla V (x) \| _ {2} ^ {2}}. \tag {73}$$

Lawrence et al. (2020) extends Kolter and Manek (2019) to learn discrete-time systems with disturbance $x _ { k + 1 } = f ( x _ { k } , w _ { k + 1 } ) .$ , where $w _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ ,is a stochastic process. A Mixture density networks $\begin{array} { r } { p ( x _ { k + 1 } | x _ { k } ) = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { m } \pi _ { i } ( x _ { k } ) \phi _ { i } ( x _ { k + 1 } | x _ { k } ) } \end{array}$ is proposed to model π ϕthe dynamics, where each i is a kernel function (usually Gaussian), the mean $\hat { \mu } _ { i } ( x _ { i } )$ ϕ can be parameterized as FNNs and mixing coefficients $\pi _ { i }$ µare also FNNs, which are nonnegative and sum to πone. The Lyapunov stability condition is posed to the mean parameters, i.e., $V ( \mu _ { k + 1 } ) \le \beta V ( \mu _ { k } )$ with $\begin{array} { r } { \mu _ { k + 1 } = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { m } \pi _ { i } ( x _ { i } ) \hat { \mu } _ { i } ( x _ { k } ) } \end{array}$ . µ β µ µ π µTakeishi and Kawahara (2021) generalizes Kolter and Manek (2019) to learn dynamics models with stable invariant sets rather than an equilibrium point, by modifying the projection step to a set and ensuring invariance on the set. Schlaginhaufen et al. (2021) jointly learn a stable system model (using neural ODEs) and a Lyapunov function for partially observable systems with delays. Min et al. (2023) extends this method to a system with control, by jointly learning the dynamical system, Lyapunov function, and a feedback controller all by neural networks, where the closed-loop stability is guaranteed by projection. Tang et al. (2024) further extends this approach to chaotic systems and learning invariant set.
