The matrix R satisfies the S O(3) constraints: $R ^ { \top } R ~ = ~ I ,$ , $\operatorname* { d e t } ( R ) = 1$ . The control input u is randomly sampled and applied to the pendulum to collect a dataset of state-control trajectories. This dataset trains a S O(3) Hamiltonian-based neural ODE network (Duong et al., 2024a), which encodes both energy conservation and S O(3) constraints via a Hamiltonian formulation. We discuss such physics-informed architectures in Section 5. The dataset is also used to train a black-box neural ODE network for comparison, where the dynamics function f in (3) is represented by a multilayer perceptron network. Fig. 1a shows that enforcing physics constraints improves training with faster convergence. Figs. 1b and 1c show the learned model preserves energy and S O(3) constraints when rolled out from an initial angle $\varphi \ = \ { \frac { 2 \pi } { 3 } }$ without control. The predicted φ angle and velocity also follow the pendulum’s phase portraits (Fig. 1d).

The above example demonstrates how properties such as energy conservation can be leveraged to fit models with better sample efficiency and interpretability. Incorporating properties like dissipativity can also facilitate scalable analysis and control in large-scale networked systems (Arcak et al., 2016; Arcak, 2022; Agarwal et al., 2021, 2020; Jena et al., 2021; Sivaranjani et al., 2020a). We provide an additional example demonstrating how dissipativity can be leveraged for distributed synthesis of controllers in our Github repository. Overall, these benefits motivate the idea of preserving control-relevant properties in system identification.
