Then, we develop a Learning With Errors (LWE) (Regev (2009)) based homomorphic encryption scheme that enables the designed observer to operate over encrypted data while automatically disclosing the residue signal. The key idea is to modify the standard LWE based scheme by leveraging the zero-dynamics of the observer, so that the “masking term” of the encrypted residue, which conceals the underlying message, is enforced to remain identically zero. This mechanism was first introduced in our previous work (Jang et al. (2025)) for single-input single-output (SISO) systems. To accommodate our multi-input multioutput observer handling arbitrary sparse sensor attacks, as a conference version, we extend the scheme to the multiinput single-output (MISO) case and apply it repeatedly to each output channel, making it applicable to general multiinput multi-output systems. We provide a security analysis showing that the proposed scheme does not compromise the security of the standard LWE based scheme beyond the intentional disclosure of the residue signal.

Notation: The set of integers, non-negative integers, positive integers, and real numbers are denoted by Z, Z≥0, N, and R, respectively. For p ∈ N, we define [p] := $\{ 1 , 2 , \ldots , p \}$ . For real vectors (matrices), ∥ · ∥ denotes the (induced) infinity-norm. The identity and the zero matrix are denoted by I and 0, respectively, with their dimensions indicated as subscripts when necessary. For a sequence $v _ { 1 } , \ldots , v _ { n }$ of scalars, vectors, or matrices, with an index set $\Lambda = \{ \lambda _ { 1 } < \cdots < \lambda _ { | \Lambda | } \} \subset [ n ]$ , we define $[ v _ { 1 } ; \cdot \cdot \cdot ; v _ { n } ] : = [ v _ { 1 } ^ { \top } , \cdot \cdot . . , v _ { n } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ and $v _ { \Lambda } : = [ v _ { \lambda _ { 1 } } ; \cdot \cdot \cdot ; v _ { \lambda _ { | \Lambda | } } ]$ .
