$$u (t) = - \gamma \operatorname{sign} \left(x _ {1} (t)\right) - \delta (t), \tag {2}
\delta (t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} | x _ {2} (t) | | x _ {1} (t) | ^ {- 1} x _ {2} (t) & \text { if } x _ {1} (t) x _ {2} (t) <   0, \\ 0 & \text { else }, \end{array} \right. \tag {3}
$$

where $\gamma \ > \ D$ is the (same) single design parameter. Also the nonlinear damping term when $\bar { \delta \mathbf { \Psi } } \ne \bar { \mathbf { \Psi } } 0$ has the same analytic form as in (Ruderman and Efimov, 2025, eq. (2)). The main principal difference is that no damping is effective in the I. and III. quadrants, cf. (3). This way, a fastest possible transition into the $\mathrm { I V . , }$ respectively II., quadrant is achieved if the control amplitude is limited by γ when $x ( 0 ) \in { \mathrm { I . ~ } } \vee { \mathrm { I I I } }$ . quadrat. The same max $| u | = \gamma$ can also be guaranteed $\mathrm { i } \bar { \mathrm { f } } \ x ( 0 ) \ \in \mathrm { I I } . \ \vee \ \mathrm { I V } .$ quadrat and, at the same time, the initial conditions are sufficiently small $( \mathrm { e . g . } , \ x ( 0 ) \ \in \ C _ { a } .$ cf. (6) below). Recall that the convergence of the state trajectories to the globally stable zero equilibrium occurs always within either II. or IV. quadrant, cf. Fig. 1. The convergence properties and the analytic solution of the control system (1)–(3) will be provided below in sections 3 and 4, while at once the following remarks are worthily making.

Remark 1. Directly recognizable (by comparing the control equations (2),(3) and (Ruderman and Efimov, 2025, eq. (2)) is that the state trajectories differ only in the I. and III. quadrants. Otherwise, in the II. and IV. quadrants, the state trajectories of the control systems (1)–(3) and (Ruderman and Efimov (2025)) coincide with each other for the same initial conditions $\operatorname { \overrightarrow { x } } ( 0 ) \in \{ x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } : x _ { 1 } x _ { 2 } < 0 \}$ .

Remark 2. Unlike for the control system in Ruderman and Efimov (2025), where the admissible set of the initial conditions $x ( 0 ) \in \{ x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } : x _ { 1 } \neq 0 \} \cup \{ 0 \}$ excludes the x -axis if $x _ { 2 } \neq 0 ,$ , which is reasonable for multiple but not all possible application scenarios, the initial conditions for the control system (1)–(3) satisfy $x ( 0 ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ .

Remark 3. The length of the trajectories within the I. and III. quadrants, and so does the time of reaching $x _ { 2 } = 0 ,$ increases comparing to the control solution (Ruderman and Efimov (2025)). However, for any $x ( 0 ) ~ \in ~ \{ x ~ \in ~$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } : x _ { 1 } x _ { 2 } \geq 0 \}$ , the solutions of (1)–(3) are the fastest possible within the I. and III. quadrants, in case the control amplitude has to be limited, i.e., $| u ( t ) | \leq \gamma$ .
