# 1. Introduction

Machine learning, at its core, is learning from data. Since control theory also seeks to utilize data to identify system models and estimate and regulate their states, it is natural to ask if the resurgent interest in machine learning can translate to new algorithms and guarantees useful in control. This survey focuses on techniques for system identification as a precursor to model-based control. System identification is a fundamental and widely studied topic in both the automatic control and signal processing communities. The basic problem considers a system that is excited using some ‘input’ data and generates measurements or ‘output’ data. Using the inputs and the outputs, we seek to generate a model of the system that not only explains the data that were used to generate it, but also generalizes to other unseen input data (Ljung et al., 2020). One could interpret this as a function approximation problem, which is exactly the problem that machine learning seeks to solve with the potential ability to consider arbitrary noise distributions, high dimensional data, and complex loss functions. However, the central premise of this survey is that while machine learning can indeed yield exciting new algorithms for system identification, to realize this promise fully, ‘vanilla’ machine learning algorithms will not do — we need physics-informed and control-oriented learning algorithms that guarantee properties in the learned models useful for the subsequent control design.

What do we mean by control-oriented learning algorithms? Traditional control theory has identified several properties of dynamical system that are useful for analyzing dynamical systems or synthesizing control laws. These properties typically arise from first principles underlying the system physics or dynamics, e.g., symmetries or energy dissipation properties, and are useful for designing controllers to achieve desired closedloop responses. By merging such physics-based or controlrelevant properties with learning algorithms, we hope to identify system models that provide the best of both philosophies.
