# 2.3.1. Lyapunov Stability

Lyapunov stability is a fundamental concept for understanding the behavior of a dynamical system. Stable systems behave predictably in the sense that they return to an equilibrium (or a set of equilibria) after a disturbance and do not exhibit unbounded behavior. Suppose $x _ { e } \in D , D \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , is an equilibrium ,of the closed-loop autonomous system (9), that is $F ( x _ { e } ) = 0$ . For convenience, we state all definitions and theorems in this section for the case when the equilibrium point is at the origin of $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , that is $x _ { e } = 0$ . There is no loss of generality in doing so because any equilibrium point can be shifted to the origin via a change of variables (Khalil, 2002).

Theorem 2.1 (Lyapunov Stability). Let $x = 0$ be an equilibrium point for the closed-loop autonomous system in (9) and $D \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be a domain containing $x = 0 .$ . Let $V : D               { } ]$ R be a continuously differentiable function such that

$$V (0) = 0 \text { and } V (x) > 0, \forall x \in D \setminus \{0 \},\dot {V} (x) := \frac {\partial V}{\partial x} F (x) \leq 0, \forall x \in D.$$

Then, $x = 0$ is stable. Moreover, $i f$

$$\dot {V} (x) < 0, \forall x \in D \setminus \{0 \},$$

then $x = 0$ is asymptotically stable.

The condition that $\dot { V } ( x )$ is negative in Thm. 2.1 suggests that for any initial condition $x ( 0 ) \in D ,$ , the system trajectories x(t) move to smaller and smaller values of V(x), eventually approach or converge $\tan x = 0$ .

LaSalle’s invariance principle (Khalil, 2002, Theorem 4.4) generalizes the above notion of stability from an equilibrium point to stability with respect to a set. To state LaSalle’s invariance theorem, we need to introduce a few definitions. A set M is said to be an invariant set with respect to the closed-loop autonomous system (9) if $x ( 0 ) \in M \Rightarrow x ( t ) \in M , \forall t \in \mathbb { R }$ . That is, ,if a solution belongs to M at some time instant, then it belongs to M for all future and past time. A set M is said to be a positively invariant set with respect to the closed-loop autonomous system (9) if $x ( 0 ) \in M \Rightarrow x ( t ) \in M , \forall t \geq 0$ .
