# 2.2 Problem Setting

Consider a discrete-time plant written by

$$x (t + 1) = A x (t) + B u (t), \quad x (0) = x _ {\text { ini }}, \tag {4a}y (t) = C x (t) + a (t), \tag {4b}$$

where $\ b { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the state with the initial value $x _ { \mathrm { i n i } } \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } , u ( t ) \stackrel { \cdot } { \in } \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the control input, $\ b { y } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the sensor output, and $a ( t ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the sensor attack signal. We assume that $u ( t )$ and $y ( t )$ remain bounded for all $t \geq 0$ when $\boldsymbol a ( t ) \equiv \mathbf 0$ .

Our objective is to design an encrypted state observer for (4) that receives encryptions of $\overset { \cdot } { u ( t ) }$ and $y ( t )$ , and computes its next state and the state estimate over encrypted data using the homomorphic properties in (2) and (3). The main challenge is that detecting sensor attacks becomes difficult as all data remain encrypted. In this motivation, we suggest to modify the encryption algorithm Enc so that a residue signal, which indicates the presence of attacks, is automatically disclosed. By utilizing the disclosed residue signal, the proposed encrypted observer can directly detect sensor attacks without requiring access to the secret key.

We conclude the section by assuming sparsity of the attack signal and redundant observability of (4), as is common in the literature on resilient state observers (see Kim et al. (2018); Lee et al. (2018) and references therein). For each $i \in [ p ]$ , the i-th sensor output is denoted by

$$y _ {i} (t) = C _ {i} x (t) + a _ {i} (t) \in \mathbb {R}, \tag {5}$$

where $C _ { i } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { 1 \times n }$ is the i-th row of C and $a _ { i } ( t ) \ \in \ \mathbb { R }$ is the i-th component of $a ( t )$ . We do not impose any restriction on $a ( t ) ;$ ; it may be arbitrary and/or unbounded. Instead, we assume that at most $k \ : < \ : p$ sensors can be compromised. Moreover, the plant is assumed to be kredundant observable, meaning that it remains observable even after removing up to k sensors.

Assumption 1. There exists an integer $k < p$ such that at least $p - k$ sensors are not compromised for all $t \geq 0$ . That is, the set ${ \mathcal { T } } : = \{ i \in [ p ] \mid a _ { i } ( t ) \bar { \equiv } 0 \}$ satisfies $| \mathcal { I } | \geq p - k$ .

Assumption 2. For any subset $\Lambda \subset [ p ]$ such that $| \Lambda | \geq p -$ $k ,$ the pair $( A , C _ { \Lambda } )$ is observable.
