# ROBUSTNESS OF DELAYED HIGHER ORDER SLIDING MODE CONTROL

MOUSSA LABBADI∗, DENIS EFIMOV †, AND LEONID FRIDMAN‡

Abstract. In this paper, the feasibility of recently developed higher order delayed sliding mode controllers is addressed. With this aim the robustness against the measurement noise and mismatched perturbations for the systems governed by such controllers is established using ISS implicit Lyapunov-Razumikhin function approach. To illustrate proposed results, a simulation example validating the efficiency of the method is provided.

Key words. Lyapunov-Razumikhin method; Time delay; High order sliding mode control; Measurement noise.

1. Introduction. Sliding mode control (SMC) is one of the most popular techniques demonstrating two main advantages [43, 39]: theoretically exact compensation of matched perturbations and finite-time convergence to the sliding set (model reduction in a finite time). Further, the Higher Order SMC (HOSMC) algorithms [39, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 3, 8, 29, 38] ensuring the same quality properties for systems with arbitrary relative degree have been designed. Unfortunately, the price to pay for the mentioned advantages of SMC is the usage of discontinuous controllers having infinite control gains, whose application requires an arbitrary high frequency of switching for actuators, which causes three key issues for successful implementation of SMC: (i) chattering investigation and adjustment, where the main directions for chattering mitigation include adaptation of the SMC gains and utilization of observers to bypass infinite gains [21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 3, 44, 33, 31, 5]; (ii) minimization of effects of unmatched perturbations, where the main directions are reasonable choice of sliding surfaces [7, 6], backstepping based SMC [13, 45] or observer-based compensation [14]; (iii) robustness with respect to the measurement noise, which is traditionally studied using homogeneity of SMC [22, 23, 24, 25, 3, 29, 38].
