# 3.2. Does Classical System Identification Preserve Controlrelevant Properties?

Since it is desirable to preserve properties such as energy conservation and dissipativity that can inform or simplify control designs for complex systems, a natural question is: If we are able to identify models that approximate the dynamics very closely, will these system properties be naturally inherited in the identified model? Unfortunately, this is not the case, as we illustrate with a simple counter-example. We show that even for a linear system, there is no guarantee that a learned model that approximates the system very closely will preserve the dissipativity property possessed by the original system.

Example 3.2 (Linear system counter-example). We consider a linear system as follows.

$$\dot {x} (t) = A x (t) + B u (t)y (t) = C x (t) + D u (t),$$

where

$$
A = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} - 2 & - 3 & - 4 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 \end{array} \right], \quad B = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{array} \right], \quad C = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} - 1 & 0 & 2 \end{array} \right], \quad D = 1.
$$

This system possesses the property of passivity, that is, it is dissipative with $\mathcal { Q } = 0 , S = \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 7 } , R = 0 ,$ , which we can verify, e.g., , ,using the MATLAB isPassive function. For system identification, we generate training data using the input $u ( t ) = t e ^ { - 5 t }$ . We show that even if we can measure the exact output, which is the most desirable case, and identify a linear model that closely approximates the system behavior, we still lose the passivity property in the identified model.

In Fig. 2, we compare the trajectory of the ground truth and the one generated by the identified linear model using the MATLAB System Identification Toolbox. The identified learned model has matrices

$$
A _ {i d} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} - 0. 0 3 3 & - 1. 3 2 5 & - 0. 0 0 1 \\ 1. 1 7 6 & - 0. 1 4 6 & - 1. 6 9 3 \\ - 0. 5 & 0. 6 5 4 & - 1. 8 4 2 \end{array} \right] \quad B _ {i d} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} - 4. 6 8 \\ 1 4. 2 \\ - 6. 2 8 \end{array} \right],
$$
