with $\chi > 1$ and $\eta > 0$ being tuning parameters (the ILF $V _ { y } ( y ( t ) )$ is calculated as above). For $w \equiv 0 ,$ , this control provides uniform (independently in a properly bounded matched disturbance $d )$ hyperexponential (faster than any exponential) convergence to the origin, being uniformly upper bounded as other HOSMC. The tuning of control parameters and stability conditions are expressed using Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMIs), facilitating straightforward adjustments for convergence times and for magnitudes of counteracted disturbances. In (1.2), (1.3) the chattering happens if $\Psi ( y _ { t } ) = 0$ , which corresponds to the situation when $y ( t + \theta ) = 0$ for all $\theta \in [ - \eta , 0 ]$ only, while the origin is reached asymptotically with a hyperexponential convergence rate. Therefore, the chattering has a much lower chance to be produced. Moreover, the behavior of trajectories with a hyperexponential rate of convergence is difficult to distinguish in simulations/experiments with the finite-time decaying ones. Since (1.2) generates a continuous signal and the trajectories of the system (1.1), (1.2) go to the origin, it implies that (1.2) has to approach $- d ( t )$ or its average, i.e., performing identification of the matched uncertainty.

In the present note, the robustness against measurement noises w(t) and additional mismatched perturbations is analyzed for the control method of [20]. The technical difficulty consists in impossibility of exploitation of the properties of homogeneous systems, as it is usually performed [35, 36] since the system is not homogeneous due to $\chi > 1$ , and in addition, it contains delays. The Lyapunov-Razumikhin function approach will be applied.
