# 5.1.4. Recurrent Equilibrium Networks

A Recurrent Equilibrium Network (REN) (Revay et al., 2023) is a flexible model structure that incorporates both a recurrent structure and an equilibrium network. It was introduced to include many established models as special cases, such as FNNs and RNNs. Specifically, REN is given in the following form,

$$\hat {x} _ {k + 1} = A \hat {x} _ {k} + B _ {1} w _ {k} + B _ {2} u _ {k} + b _ {x},\hat {y} _ {k} = C _ {2} \hat {x} _ {k} + D _ {2 1} w _ {k} + D _ {2 2} u _ {k} + b _ {y}, \tag {67}$$

in which $w _ { k }$ is the solution of an equilibrium network DEQ

$$w _ {k} = \sigma (D _ {1 1} w _ {k} + C _ {1} \hat {x} _ {k} + D _ {1 2} u _ {k} + b _ {v}),$$

$A , B , C , D$ are matrices of appropriate dimension, $b _ { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , b _ { y }$ ∈ $\mathbb { R } ^ { p } , b _ { \nu } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q }$ are bias parameters, and $\sigma$ ,is a nonlinear activation , σfunction. REN models can also be represented as a feedback interconnection of a linear system G (composed of matrices $A , B , C , D )$ and a memoryless nonlinear operator $\sigma ,$ as depicted , , ,in Figure 7.

RENs can incorporate built-in guarantees of stability and robustness through either convex or direct parameterization to satisfy sufficient conditions for contractive models and incremental dissipativity. Convex parameterization introduces multipliers to add degrees of freedom, making the model parameters, stability certificate, and multipliers jointly convex. Direct parameterization maps the convex region to a set of free parameters, turning the problem into unconstrained optimization. The resulting parameters are guaranteed to be well-posed, ensuring the model generates unique state trajectories for any input and initial condition. While RENs model discrete-time dynamics, NodeRENs (Martinelli et al., 2023) extend the framework to continuous-time systems by combining RENs with Neural ODEs. Like RENs, NodeRENs are contractive and dissipative by design and allow training via unconstrained optimization.
