A data set $\mathcal { D } = \{ t _ { 0 : N } ^ { ( i ) } , q _ { n } ^ { ( i ) } , \bar { \xi } _ { n } ^ { ( i ) } , u ^ { ( i ) } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { D }$ ) u(i) }D is collected by applying ,a constant control input $\boldsymbol { u } ^ { ( i ) }$ , ξ ,to the system and sampling the state at times $t _ { n } ^ { ( i ) } f o r n = \dot { 0 } , \ldots , N .$ . Duong et al. (2024b) uses neural , . . . ,networks with parameters  to approximate the mass $M _ { \theta } ^ { - 1 } ( q ) ,$ , θthe potential energy V (q), the dissipation matrix $D _ { \theta } ( q , p ) ,$ and the input matrix $B _ { \theta } ( q ) ,$ θ ,, respectively. The model is trained by θminimizing a loss function combining errors in orientation, position, and generalized velocity. The orientation error is measured on SO(3) via the logarithmic map, while position and velocity errors use standard Euclidean norms.

A Crazyflie quadrotor, shown in Fig. 9a, simulated in the physics-based simulator PyBullet (Panerati et al., 2020) is used to verify the approach. The control input $\boldsymbol { u } ~ = ~ [ u ^ { \prime } \tau ^ { T } ] ^ { T }$ includes a thrust u′ $\in \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ and a torque vector $\epsilon \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ generτated by the 4 rotors. The quadrotor is controlled from a random starting point to 18 different desired poses using a PID controller (Panerati et al., 2020), providing 18 2 5-second tra-.jectories. The trajectories were used to generate a dataset $\mathcal { D } = \{ t _ { 0 : N } ^ { ( i ) } , \mathbb { q } _ { 0 : N } ^ { ( i ) } , \zeta _ { 0 : N } ^ { ( i ) } , u ^ { ( i ) } ) \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { D }$ with $N = 5$ and $D = 1 0 8 0$ . The , , ζ ,S E(3) port-Hamiltonian ODE network (Duong et al., 2024b) is trained for 500 iterations. The training and test results in $F i g .$ . 9 show that the neural networks are able to approximate to the ground-truth values. Fig. 9g and 9h verify that when we roll out the learned dynamics for a long horizon, the law of energy conservation is satisfied via the encoded Hamiltonian structure, and the SO(3) constraint violation is negligible. The SE(3) port-Hamiltonian neural ODE networks are also trained with noisy real data collected from a quadrotor (Fig. 8a), and tested with trajectory tracking task (Fig. 8b).
