# A. Separation Principle in Stabilization

Separation principle [1] provides a powerful way to design controllers for dynamical systems, whose full state is not directly measurable. Consider the following linear time-invariant system:

$$\dot {x} = A x + B u \tag {1a}y = C x, \tag {1b}$$

where ??, ??, and ?? are the state, input, and output, respectively. The most common observer for system (1) takes the following form [1]:

$$\dot {\hat {x}} = A \hat {x} + B u + L (C \hat {x} - y). \tag {2}$$

This research is supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore, and PUB, Singapores National Water Agency under its RIE2025 Urban Solutions and Sustainability (USS) (Water) Centre of Excellence (CoE) Programme, awarded to Nanyang Environment & Water Research Institute (NEWRI), Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore. This research is also supported by the Ministry of Education, Singapore, under its Academic Research Fund Tier 1 (RG95/24 and RG63/22). Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not reflect the views of the National Research Foundation, Singapore and PUB, Singapores National Water Agency. (Corresponding author: Xunyuan Yin.)

Ganghui Cao and Xunyuan Yin are with the Nanyang Environment & Water Research Institute, Nanyang Technological University, 1 Clean-Tech Loop, 637141, Singapore (e-mail: ganghui.cao@ntu.edu.sg, xunyuan.yin@ntu.edu.sg).

Xunyuan Yin is also with the School of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, Nanyang Technological University, 62 Nanyang Drive, 637459, Singapore. Based on state estimate ??ˆ in (2), a linear feedback controller can be designed as

$$u = K \hat {x}. \tag {3}$$

Combining (1) with (2) and (3), the closed-loop system can be written as

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} \\ \dot {\hat {x}} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A & B K \\ - L C & A + B K + L C \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} x \\ \hat {x} \end{array} \right]. \tag {4}
$$

Define ?? = ?? − ??ˆ as the state estimation error, and take nonsingular transformation

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} x \\ e \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} I & 0 \\ I & - I \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} x \\ \hat {x} \end{array} \right].
$$

Then, (4) can be transformed into

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} \\ \dot {e} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A + B K & - B K \\ 0 & A + L C \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} x \\ e \end{array} \right]. \tag {5}
$$

From (5), it is concluded that the state of system (1) converges to zero, if and only if both ??+???? and ??+???? have eigenvalues with negative real parts. This implies that system (1) can be stabilized by designing observer (2) and controller (3) separately.
