(T1) Smoothing: denoising measured input-output trajectories.   
(T2) Prediction: estimating future outputs given the immediate past input-output trajectory and future inputs.   
(T3) Optimal control: designing future inputs and outputs given the immediate past input-output trajectory and input-output references.

All these tasks can be posed as a trajectory estimation problem by specifying different types of observations and design requirements. A MAP estimator is then proposed that optimally combines the trajectory knowledge with a linear combination of offline data, following the characterization from Willems’ fundamental lemma. The linear combination vector is treated as a hyperparameter and estimated using the maximum marginal likelihood method. An iterative solution to the hyperparameter estimation problem is derived using sequential quadratic programming (SQP). This demonstrates connections to existing algorithms in data-driven prediction and control under special conditions. Numerical examples show that the proposed framework achieves competitive performance against existing data-driven algorithms and classical approaches based on the system identification paradigm for all three tasks.

Notation. For a sequence of matrices $X _ { 1 } , \ldots , X _ { n }$ , we denote the row-wise and diagonal-wise concatenation by col $( X _ { 1 } , \ldots , X _ { n } )$ and blkdiag $( X _ { 1 } , \ldots , X _ { n } )$ , respectively. The rank, trace, determinant, log-determinant, and vectorization of a matrix are indicated by rank (·), tr (·), det (·), log det (·), and vec (·), respectively. For a vector x, $\| x \| _ { F }$ denotes the weighted $l _ { 2 } { \mathrm { - n o r m } } ( x ^ { \top } P x ) ^ { \frac { 1 } { 2 } }$ . The symbols $\mathbb { N } _ { [ m , n ] } , \ \mathbb { S } _ { + } ^ { n }$ , and $\mathbb { S } _ { + + } ^ { n }$ represent the set of natural numbers between m and n, positive semidefinite, and positive definite matrices of dimension $n \times n$ , respectively. The Kronecker product is indicated by $\otimes$ .
