$$u ^ {\iota} = K ^ {\iota} \hat {x} _ {i ^ {\prime}} - \beta^ {\iota} h _ {\epsilon} ^ {\iota} \left(\left(B ^ {\iota}\right) ^ {\top} P \hat {x} _ {i ^ {\prime}}\right), \iota = 1, 2, \dots , N _ {c},$$

where $K ^ { \iota }$ and ?? satisfy (22); $h _ { \epsilon } ^ { \iota } ( \cdot )$ is designed as

$$
h _ {\epsilon} ^ {\iota} (\omega) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} \| \omega \| ^ {- 1} \omega , \beta^ {\iota} \| \omega \| > \epsilon \\ \beta^ {\iota} \epsilon^ {- 1} \omega , \beta^ {\iota} \| \omega \| \leq \epsilon ; \end{array} \right. \tag {24}
$$

$\beta ^ { \iota }$ , as well as $\gamma _ { i }$ and $\gamma _ { i s }$ in (17), is updated according to

$$\dot {\beta} ^ {\iota} = - \sigma^ {\iota} \beta^ {\iota} + \phi^ {\iota} \left\| (B ^ {\iota}) ^ {\top} P \hat {x} _ {i ^ {\prime}} \right\| \tag {25a}\dot {\gamma} _ {i} = - \sigma_ {i} \gamma_ {i} + \phi_ {i} \| \varepsilon_ {i u} \| ^ {2} \tag {25b}\dot {\gamma} _ {i s} = - \sigma_ {i s} \gamma_ {i s} + \phi_ {i s} \| \varepsilon_ {i u} \| \tag {25c}$$

with leakage coefficients $\sigma ^ { \iota } , \ \sigma _ { i } , \ \sigma _ { i s }$ , step sizes $\phi ^ { \iota } , \phi _ { i } , \phi _ { i s } ,$ and initial values $\beta ^ { \iota } ( 0 ) , \gamma _ { i } ( 0 ) , \gamma _ { i s } ( 0 )$ all positive reals; $\hat { x } _ { i ^ { \prime } }$ is produced by any observer node designed in Section III. Then adaptive gains $\beta ^ { \iota } { } _ { ; }$ , ???? , and $\gamma _ { i s }$ remain bounded. Moreover, state ?? of system (6) and state estimation error $e _ { i }$ at each observer node exponentially converge to a set containing the origin. This residual set can be made arbitrarily small by decreasing ?? in (24) and by increasing $\phi ^ { \iota }$ , $\phi _ { i } ,$ , and $\phi _ { i s }$ in (25).

See Section VII-D for the proof of Theorem 6.

Remark 3. I ${ } ^ { f } N _ { c } = N , \tilde { B } = I ,$ , and the ??th controller node uses the state estimate from the ??th observer node, then the set in Theorem 6 is given by (54) and the convergence rate is no slower than min $\{ \sigma , \sigma _ { d } \}$ .

Remark 4. The introduction of the leakage terms with positive coefficients in (25) arises from two fundamental considerations:

• As pointed out in [41] and [42], applying boundary layer technique may lead to parameter-drift problems. Without the leakage terms, the adaptive gain $\beta ^ { \iota }$ will keep increasing and diverge to infinity.   
• The adaptive law (25a) relies on the estimated state rather than the true state of system (6). Due to the unavoidable estimation errors in the initial stage, the absence of leakage terms may compromise stability of the overall adaptive system.
