# 1. INTRODUCTION

Enhancing the security of networked control systems has attracted growing interest, as incidents introduced in Slay and Miller (2007); Slowik (2019) have shown that successful attacks can cause severe physical and/or economic damage. In this context, encrypted control (Kogiso and Fujita (2015); Kim et al. (2022); Schl¨uter et al. (2023)) has emerged as a method to protect data in both the communication and computation layers with the use of homomorphic encryption—a cryptosystem that enables arithmetic operations to be evaluated directly over encrypted data without decryption. It allows secure outsourcing of control computations to remote servers without sharing the decryption key.

While encryption preserves data confidentiality, it simultaneously hides the effect of data corruption attacks. Therefore, ensuring both confidentiality and integrity of data has been a critical yet challenging problem in encrypted control. Fauser and Zhang (2025) proposed a resilient homomorphic encryption scheme that neutralizes additive attacks, but only when they lie within a certain range. Towards attack detection, Martynova and Zhang (2019); Alexandru et al. (2022) incorporated anomaly detectors into encrypted control systems, which trigger an alarm when a residue signal exceeds a prescribed threshold. However, because this residue signal is also encrypted, it needs to be sent to an external detector holding the decryption key, thus incurring additional communication burden.

In this paper, we propose an encrypted state observer that can directly detect sensor attacks without decryption. Towards this end, we first design a state observer that operates over a finite field of integers with the modular arithmetic, as homomorphic enryption schemes are typically built upon such fields. The observer generates a residue signal that, under sparse attack and sensing redundancy conditions, indicates the presence of attacks. In particular, even though the observer’s state and signals may “overflow” the modulus range due to potentially arbitrary and/or unbounded attacks, the proposed residue signal still enables attack detection.
