# 5.1.3. Neural Ordinary Differential Equations (Neural ODEs)

One challenge with RNN is that as the trajectory length increases, it requires propagating information over long horizons. Thus, RNNs could lead to high computational cost and difficulties in training. Chen et al. (2018a) introduce neural ODEs that describe the system dynamics as $\dot { \hat { x } } _ { i } ( t ) = f _ { \theta } ( \hat { x } _ { i } ( t ) , u _ { i } ( t ) )$ in the original continuous-time domain,

$$\hat {x} _ {i} (t + 1) = \hat {x} _ {i} (t) + \int_ {\tau = t} ^ {t + 1} f _ {\theta} (\hat {x} _ {i} (t), u _ {i} (t)) d \tau , \tag {66a}\hat {y} _ {i} (t) = h _ {\theta} (\hat {x} _ {i} (t), u _ {i} (t)), \tag {66b}$$

where $f _ { \theta } , h _ { \theta }$ are commonly modeled via FNNs. We can view θ, θNeural ODEs as introducing the structure of differential equation as a part of prior knowledge about the problem (a.k.a., inductive bias in machine learning). Starting with ${ \hat { x } } _ { i } ( t )$ at time t, the state at time $t + 1$ is obtained by integrating the neural network $f _ { \theta }$ over $[ t , t + 1 ]$ . The integral in (66a) has to be θ ,solved numerically, and can be expensive since the dynamics are modeled as neural networks. Follow-up works (Quaglino et al., 2020; Kelly et al., 2020; Dupont et al., 2019; Biloš et al., 2021) focus on retaining expressive dynamics at less computational cost. Zhu et al. (2021) proposes neural delay differential equations, that can be used to learn dynamical systems with delays. Chen et al. (2021a) proposes neural event functions to include discrete events (e.g. switches) in the continuous-time dynamics modeling. To understand the representation capability of Neural ODE, Ruiz-Balet and Zuazua (2023) establishes universal approximation guarantees for ODEs.
