# 4. Adaptive Camera Control Algorithm

We adopt and extend the NeuralAE model proposed in [36] as the ACC algorithm to dynamically control two camera parameters: exposure time and gain. The architecture of the AE model is shown in the supplementary material.

We keep the global image feature branch and the semantic feature branch in the original model [36]. While the original method uses two cameras, we simplify the setup to a single camera. Image captured $\left( I _ { t } \right)$ is used to predict the exposure for the next frame $\left( I _ { t + 1 } \right)$ at every step. To improve temporal awareness, we modify the semantic feature branch by adding a parameter-awareness component. This component concatenates the dynamic parameters predicted for the previous frame with the image features extracted in the semantic feature branch, allowing the network to condition its predictions on prior settings. The outputs from both branches are summed and passed through a multi-layer perceptron (MLP), which we modify to predict both exposure time $( E _ { \mathrm { p r e d } } )$ and gain $( G _ { \mathrm { p r e d } } )$ , rather than only exposure as in the original method. Architectural details follow [36].

We then adjust $E _ { \mathrm { p r e d } }$ and $G _ { \mathrm { p r e d } }$ to account for varying pixel sizes. If the calibration camera has a pixel size $p _ { 0 }$ and the optimiser proposes a new pixel size $p ,$ , the corresponding calibrated image intensity $( I _ { 0 } )$ is scaled by the pixel area rati o p2p20 , assuming square pixels. To compensate for intensity 、p² $\frac { p ^ { 2 } } { p _ { 0 } ^ { 2 } }$ differences induced by pixel sizes while preserving a high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), we rescale the predictions with priority of minimising gain, since lower gain improves SNR as in (3). The final exposure settings at timestep t are:

$$
G _ {t} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \max \left(\frac {p _ {0} ^ {2}}{p ^ {2}} G _ {\text { pred }}, 1\right) & \text { if   } \frac {p ^ {2}}{p _ {0} ^ {2}} > 1, \\ G _ {\text { pred }} & \text { otherwise }, \end{array} \right. \tag {4}

E _ {t} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {p _ {0} ^ {2}}{p ^ {2}} \frac {1}{G _ {t}} E _ {\text { pred }} G _ {\text { pred }} & \text { if } \frac {p ^ {2}}{p _ {0} ^ {2}} > 1, \\ \frac {p _ {0} ^ {2}}{p ^ {2}} E _ {\text { pred }} & \text { otherwise }. \end{array} \right.
$$

The resulting $E _ { t }$ and $G _ { t }$ are used as the final exposure settings in (2), driving both rendering adjustments and image effects, including motion blur and image noise.
