# 5.2.1. Lagrangian Neural Networks

Consider the Lagrangian dynamics of a rigid-body system expressed as

$$M (q) \ddot {q} + C (q, \dot {q}) \dot {q} + G (q) = \tau , \tag {68}$$

where $q \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ represents generalized coordinates, $M ( q )$ is the inertia matrix, $C ( q , \dot { q } )$ is the Coriolis matrix, $G ( q )$ denotes con-,servative forces (e.g., gravity), and  is the non-conservative τcontrol input. To put the Lagrangian dynamics in the standard state-space representation, one could define the state vector $x = ( q , \dot { q } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n }$ , and rewrite the dynamics as

$$\dot {x} _ {1} = x _ {2},\dot {x} _ {2} = M ^ {- 1} (x _ {1}) (\tau - C (x _ {1}, x _ {2}) x _ {2} - G (x _ {1})) ,$$

so that the overall system dynamics are represented as $\dot { x } \ =$ $f ( x , u )$ , consistent with Eq. (3). The system output is modeled as $y = h ( x , u )$ , where y may represent partial observations such ,as positions q, velocities ${ \dot { q } } ,$ or both.

Instead of directly parameterizing the system dynamics f and output function h as neural network, Roehrl et al. (2020) parametrizes the force term as a neural network $\tau ( x , u ; \theta )$ with inputs $x ~ = ~ ( q , \dot { q } )$ , control input $u ,$ τ , θ and parameters . Given ,a dataset of trajectories $\mathcal { D } = \{ ( u _ { i } , y _ { i } ) \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } ;$ θ, a one-step 4th-order ,Runge-Kutta method is used to integrate the dynamics and generate predicted trajectories $\mathcal { \hat { D } } = \{ ( \bar { \hat { y } } _ { i } ) \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N }$ . The neural network is trained by minimizing the discrepancy between the observed and predicted outputs, i.e., yi and $\hat { y } _ { i }$ . Instead of modeling  as a neural network, Lutter et al. (2018) models $M ( q ) = L ( q ) L ( q ) ^ { \top }$ and $G ( q )$ as neural networks and represented $C ( q , \dot { q } )$ in terms of $L ( q )$ ,. The approximated inverse dynamics is compared with τfrom the dataset to train the models. This approach avoids the need of an ODE solver but requires ¨q in the dataset.
