Another reason to incorporate a priori information about physics is to obtain explainable system models. It is wellknown that the outputs, and consequently the failure modes, of black-box models such as neural networks utilized in learningbased control cannot be readily intuited. Therefore, when control designs that utilize these models do not perform as intended, the root cause is often unclear, resulting in the designer having to resort to trial-and-error to achieve acceptable performance. Instead, if black-box system models like neural networks can be imbued with key physics properties, such as conservation laws, symmetries, or energy dissipation, their outputs or failure modes can be explained in terms of measures defined on these properties (e.g., dissipativity indices) or violation of these properties (e.g., violation of symmetries). Then, desired input-output behaviors can be translated into specifications on these properties and shaped by explainable control designs.

Finally, we also expect that enforcing such properties could improve the sample complexity of the learning algorithms. The intuition here is that these properties constrain the degrees of the freedom for the learned model and hence the model can be learned in a more efficient fashion. Some empirical evidence for this can be observed in Miller et al. (2020); Cuomo et al. (2022); Son et al. (2023), where physics-informed neural networks achieve similar prediction accuracy as unstructured neural networks with significantly less training data.
