<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Method</td><td colspan="5">Camera Parameters</td><td colspan="2">Performance</td></tr><tr><td>Forward Position x (m)</td><td>Height z (m)</td><td>Focal Length f (mm)</td><td>Sensor Size w × h (mm)</td><td>Pixel Size p (μm)</td><td>Object Detect. mAP ↑</td><td>True Positive Ratio TP/All@180° ↑</td></tr><tr><td>No GA Component - TaCOS [53] + NeuralAE [36] (Gradient-Based)</td><td>2.43 ●</td><td>1.65 ●</td><td>8.75 ●</td><td>11.34×7.13 ●</td><td>5.86 ●</td><td>0.310</td><td>0.379</td></tr><tr><td>Fixed Perturbations - TaCOS [53] + NeuralAE [36] (Fixed Pertrub)</td><td>1.68 ●</td><td>1.25 ●</td><td>8.14 ●</td><td>11.25×7.03 ●</td><td>5.86 ●</td><td>0.302</td><td>0.372</td></tr><tr><td>Frozen Object Detector - TaCOS [53] + NeuralAE [36] (DF-Grad)</td><td>1.31 ●</td><td>1.3 ●</td><td>5.94 ●</td><td>8.66×4.34 ●</td><td>2.25 ●</td><td>0.233</td><td>0.367</td></tr><tr><td>Ours - TaCOS [53] + NeuralAE [36] (DF-Grad)</td><td>1.35 ●</td><td>1.3 ●</td><td>5.19 ●</td><td>7.37×4.92 ●</td><td>2.4 ●</td><td>0.325</td><td>0.390</td></tr></table>

With stronger motion blur, NeuralAE without GA retains exposure settings close to the calibrated case, as it cannot learn non-differentiable effects. Our method uses GA to infer the impact of motion blur on task performance, shortening exposure time and increasing gain to mitigate blur while maintaining brightness. Both our method and TaCOS also select larger pixels to reduce exposure time and gain, thereby lowering motion blur effects and noise.

Finally, we observe variation in camera placement across scenarios for both our method and TaCOS due to limited constraints from the detection task, which only requires an unobstructed view. Both methods also maintain appropriate FoVs by correlating sensor size and focal length.

Real-World Images Experiments on real-world images show consistent trends. Our method outperforms baselines across calibrated, noisy, and motion-blurred conditions. Despite a smaller design space, it successfully balances SNR, resolution, and motion blur by optimising the pixel sizes and exposure parameters, while baseline methods cannot. NeuralAE without GA tends to maximise exposure to suppress noise, ignoring motion blur, and TaCOS with AverageAE lacks the flexibility to adjust dynamic parameters under challenging scenarios.
