# References

[1] Accel Abarca and Albert Theuwissen.
A CMOS image sensor dark current compensation using in-pixel temperature sensors.
Sensors, 23(22):9109, 2023.
3   
[2] Seung-Hwan Baek and Felix Heide.
Polka lines: Learning structured illumination and reconstruction for active stereo.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5757–5767, 2021.
2   
[3] Basler dart daA1280-54uc.
Basler AG, 2024.
Rev.
85.
5, 16   
[4] Marc-Andre B´ egin and Ian Hunter.
Auto-exposure algorithm ´ for enhanced mobile robot localization in challenging light conditions.
Sensors, 22(3):835, 2022.
2   
[5] Henryk Blasinski, Joyce Farrell, Trisha Lian, Zhenyi Liu, and Brian Wandell.
Optimizing image acquisition systems for autonomous driving.
Electronic Imaging, 2018(5):161– 1, 2018.
2   
[6] Holger Caesar, Varun Bankiti, Alex H Lang, Sourabh Vora, Venice Erin Liong, Qiang Xu, Anush Krishnan, Yu Pan, Giancarlo Baldan, and Oscar Beijbom.
nuScenes: A multimodal dataset for autonomous driving.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 11621–11631, 2020.
5, 16   
[7] Julie Chang and Gordon Wetzstein.
Deep optics for monocular depth estimation and 3d object detection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 10193–10202, 2019.
2   
[8] Julie Chang, Vincent Sitzmann, Xiong Dun, Wolfgang Heidrich, and Gordon Wetzstein.
Hybrid optical-electronic convolutional neural networks with optimized diffractive optics for image classification.
Scientific Reports, 8(1):12324, 2018.
2   
[9] Geoffroi Cotˆ e, Fahim Mannan, Simon Thibault, Jean- ´ Franc¸ois Lalonde, and Felix Heide.
The differentiable lens: Compound lens search over glass surfaces and materials for object detection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 20803–20812, 2023.
2, 4   
[10] Ekin D Cubuk, Barret Zoph, Dandelion Mane, Vijay Vasudevan, and Quoc V Le.
Autoaugment: Learning augmentation strategies from data.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 113–123, 2019.
2   
[11] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei.
Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database.
In 2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 248–255.
Ieee, 2009.
