Remark 3. In Kim et al. (2018); Lee et al. (2018), the residual signal was defined as $\hat { r } ( \dot { t } ) = ( I - \Phi \Phi ^ { \dagger } ) \dot { z } ( t )$ , which represents the deviation of ˆz(t) from the image space of Φ, where z(t) resides. However, this geometric interpretation does not translate naturally to $\breve { \mathbb Z } _ { q }$ because the modulo operation may truncate the higher bits of the state and signals (especially when some components of ˆz(t) are arbitrarily corrupted by attacks), thereby destroying the underlying geometric structure. This led to the definition of a new residue signal in (8b).

We now convert the observer (8) to operate over $\mathbb { Z } _ { q } .$ First, we scale and round the matrices in (8), except for the integer matrix F¯, as

$$\bar {G} := \left\lceil \frac {[ \Phi B L ]}{\mathsf {s} _ {1}} \left. \right\rfloor \in \mathbb {Z} ^ {l \times (m + p)}, \overline {{\Phi_ {\Lambda} ^ {\dagger}}} := \left\lceil \frac {\Phi_ {\Lambda} ^ {\dagger}}{\mathsf {s} _ {1}} \left. \right\rfloor , \forall \Lambda \in \mathcal {P}, (9)$$

and $\overline { { \Phi ^ { \dag } } } : = \lceil \Phi ^ { \dag } / \mathsf { s } _ { 1 } \rfloor$ , where $1 / { \mathsf { s } } _ { 1 } \ \geq \ 1$ is a scale factor. Similarly, the initial value $\hat { z } _ { \mathrm { i n i } }$ and the input signals u(t) and $y ( t )$ of the observer are scaled and rounded as

$$\bar {z} _ {\mathrm{ini}} := \left\lceil \frac {\hat {z} _ {\mathrm{ini}}}{\mathsf {s} _ {1} \mathsf {s} _ {2}} \left. \right\rfloor \in \mathbb {Z} ^ {l}, \quad \bar {v} (t) := \left\lceil \frac {[ u (t) ; y (t) ]}{\mathsf {s} _ {2}} \left. \right\rfloor \in \mathbb {Z} ^ {m + p}, \tag {10}$$

using an additional scale factor $s _ { 2 } > 0$ .

As a result, the quantized observer over $\mathbb { Z } _ { q }$ is obtained as

$$\bar {z} (t + 1) = \bar {F} \bar {z} (t) + \bar {G} \bar {v} (t) \bmod q, \tag {11a}\bar {z} (0) = \bar {z} _ {\text { ini }} \bmod q,$$

where $\bar { z } ( t ) ~ = ~ [ \bar { z } _ { 1 } ( t ) ; \cdots ; \bar { z } _ { p } ( t ) ] ~ \in ~ \mathbb { Z } _ { q } ^ { l }$ is the quantized observer state with $\bar { z } _ { i } ( t ) \ \in \ \mathbb { Z } _ { q } ^ { l _ { i } }$ for each $i ~ \in ~ [ p ]$ . The quantized residue signal $\bar { r } ( t ) \in \dot { \mathbb { Z } } _ { q } ^ { n _ { r } }$ is computed as

$$
\bar {r} (t) := \bar {H} \bar {z} (t) \bmod q := \left[ \begin{array}{c} \bar {x} _ {\Lambda_ {1}} (t) - \bar {x} (t) \\ \vdots \\ \bar {x} _ {\Lambda_ {| \mathcal {P} |}} (t) - \bar {x} (t) \end{array} \right] \bmod q, \tag {11b}
$$
