Since all conditions of Theorem 8 are verified, for $w \equiv 0$ and $\delta \equiv 0$ the closed-loop system (2.1), (4.1) is GUHeS at the origin. To check the ISS property uniformly in $d \in \mathcal { D }$ , following Theorem 7, we will use an ILF defined by the equation $Q ( V ( x ) , x ) =$ 0, and we need to examine the implication (3.5) with the constraint $\rho _ { V } ( s ) < s$ for all $s > 0$ , which has to be satisfied for all $x _ { t } \in \mathcal { C } _ { \eta } , w , \delta \in \mathcal { L } _ { \infty } ^ { n }$ and $d \in \mathcal { D }$ using the restriction $\delta ^ { \top } b \equiv 0$ (it is a necessary condition to have ISS property with respect to $\delta$ since the control is bounded). Define $V ( t ) = V ( x ( t ) )$ and note that

$$\dot {V} (t) = - \left(\frac {\partial Q (V (t) , x (t))}{\partial V}\right) ^ {- 1} \frac {\partial Q (V (t) , x (t))}{\partial x} \dot {x} (t),$$

where the expressions of the partial derivatives are presented above, ${ \dot { x } } ( t )$ comes from (2.1) after substitution of (4.1). Consequently, skipping time dependence for brevity, and denoting $P = X ^ { - 1 } , \mathbf { K } = Y X ^ { - 1 }$ , we obtain

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {\partial Q (V , x)}{\partial x} \dot {x} = 2 x ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) P D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) [ A x + b (u + d) + \delta ] \\ = V ^ {- 1} \left[ x ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) \left(A ^ {\top} P + P A + P b \mathbf {K} \right. \right. \\ \left. + \mathbf {K} ^ {\top} b ^ {\top} P\right) D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) x \\ + 2 x ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) P b \mathbf {K} \left(D _ {\mathbf {r}} (\Psi^ {- 1}) - D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1})\right) x \\ + 2 x ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) P b \mathbf {K} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (\Psi^ {- 1}) w \\ \left. \right.\left. + 2 x ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) P (b d + V D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) \delta) \right]. \\ \end{array}
$$

After adding and subtracting the missing terms, we get for any $\gamma _ { 1 } , \gamma _ { 2 } , \gamma _ { 3 } > 0 \colon$

$$V \frac {\partial Q (V , x)}{\partial x} \dot {x} = \zeta^ {\top} \mathcal {Q} \zeta- \varrho_ {1} x ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) \left(P G _ {\mathbf {r}} + G _ {\mathbf {r}} P\right) D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1}) x + \varrho_ {2} d ^ {2}+ \gamma_ {1} w ^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} (\Psi^ {- 1}) ^ {2} w+ \gamma_ {2} x ^ {\top} \left(D _ {\mathbf {r}} (\Psi^ {- 1}) - D _ {\mathbf {r}} (V ^ {- 1})\right) ^ {2} x + \gamma_ {3} V ^ {2} \delta^ {\top} D _ {\mathbf {r}} ^ {2} (V ^ {- 1}) \delta ,$$
