Symmetry in physical systems (Marsden and Ratiu, 2013) has been widely studied in physics, from Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics (Lurie, 2002; Holm, 2008) to quantum mechanics (Greiner and Müller, 2012). One of the most wellknown results is Noether’s theorem (Noether, 1983), which states that there is a conservation law for every continuous symmetry of a system. The dynamics of a physical system can be described using a Lagrangian function $\mathcal { L } .$ The action of the system, defined as the integral over time of the Lagrangian, governs the system behavior via the principle of least action (Holm, 2008). If the Lagrangian is invariant under a group of transformations $\Gamma , \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } \mathcal { L } ( \gamma x ) = \mathcal { L } ( x ) , \forall \gamma \in \Gamma$ , Noether’s theorem γ γguarantees the existence of conserved quantities associated with the generators of that group. For example, time-invariant Lagrangians, i.e., $\mathcal { L } ( t + \delta t ) = \mathcal { L } ( t )$ , lead to the conservation of the δtotal energy of the system. Translation-invariant Lagrangians, i.e., $\mathcal { L } ( x { + } \delta x ) = \mathcal { L } ( x )$ , lead to the conservation of linear momenδtum, while rotational invariant Lagrangians, i.e., $\mathcal { L } ( R x ) = \mathcal { L } ( x )$ ) where R is a rotation matrix, lead to the conservation of angular momentum.

In reality, the assumption on conservative forces rarely holds as there are often external non-conservative forces, such as frictions or resistance, applied on the system. Such forces dissipate energy from the system and require a generalization of the mechanics model to account for energy dissipation. For example, a port-Hamiltonian model (Van Der Schaft and Jeltsema, 2014) combines concepts from Hamiltonian mechanics (which uses energy to describe motion) with port-based modeling (which views systems as interconnected elements exchanging power).
