| x4 | Ground Truth | Baseline | Model after Weights Perturbation | Final Model |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 |
| 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.3 |
| 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.4 |
| 0.4 | 0.45 | 0.45 | 0.45 | 0.45 |
| 0.5 | 0.48 | 0.48 | 0.48 | 0.48 |
| 0.6 | 0.45 | 0.45 | 0.45 | 0.45 |
| 0.7 | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.3 | 0.3 |
| 0.8 | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 | 0.1 |
| 0.9 | -0.1 | -0.1 | -0.1 | -0.1 |
</details>

Figure 11: Trajectories of the ground truth, the fit for baseline model, model after weights perturbation and final model for Example 5.3

$$m \ddot {x} (t) + c \dot {x} (t) + (k x (t) + \alpha x (t) ^ {3}) = u (t),$$

where m is the mass, c is the damping factor, k is the linear stiffness coefficient, and  is a constant that introduces the nonαlinearity in the spring. We take $m = 1 , c = 1 , k = 1 , \alpha = 1$ and set state variables to be $x _ { 1 } ~ = ~ x$ and $x _ { 2 } ~ = ~ { \dot { x } }$ , , α. The state-space model is

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {x} _ {1} (t) \\ \dot {x} _ {2} (t) \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c} x _ {2} (t) \\ - x _ {2} (t) - x _ {1} (t) - x _ {1} (t) ^ {3} \end{array} \right] + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ u (t) \end{array} \right] \tag {74}
$$

We collect step response data with initial point being [0 1 0 1] . , .and introduce normal distributed noises with mean 0 and standard deviation 0.01. Following the method in Xu and Sivaranjani (2023), we first learn a baseline model, which is a twolayer neural network with LeakyReLU activation function on the hidden layer and with 16 neurons for the hidden layer, and then perturb the weights to enforce dissipativity. At this stage, we obtain a dissipative neural dynamical system with $R = 0 ,$ , $\begin{array} { r } { S = \frac { 1 } { 2 } I , } \end{array}$ and $Q = 0 ,$ , corresponding to the passive case. For the weight perturbation, we have the results $\lambda _ { 1 } = 1 0 , \lambda _ { 2 } = 1 0$ and $\lambda = 2 7 . 8 2 2$ λ , λ ,. The distance (Frobenius norm) of weights being λ .moved is 3.2608 and 0.267 for the first and second layer respectively (both weights have 64 entries in total). Then we retrain biases and obtain the final model. We demonstrate the ground truth, the fit for the baseline model, the model after weights perturbation, and the final model in Fig. 11 . We observe the final model closely matches the ground truth and retains closeness to the baseline model while guaranteeing incremental dissipativity.
