This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we begin by introducing system modeling techniques and describing the control-relevant properties considered in this work, namely, dissipativity, monotonicity, and symmetry-preserving structures (such as Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics). We, then, formally pose the problem of identifying a model satisfying these properties as a constrained optimization problem, and outline various perspectives on how to solve this problem in Section 3. Then, we survey classical (Section 4) and deeplearning (Section 5) system identification techniques capturing control-relevant properties, as well as direct data-driven identification of these properties through, $\mathrm { e . g . }$ , behavioral representations (Section 6). The code for all the numerical examples in this paper is available in our Github repository.3 We conclude by providing several directions for future exploration in Section $^ { 7 . }$

Notation: Throughout the manuscript, scalars and vectors are denoted by lower-case letters. The set of real numbers is denoted by R, and the set of n-dimensional real vectors by $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ . For a vector $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , ∥x∥ denotes its Euclidean norm. The operator $\nabla _ { x }$ denotes the gradient with respect to the variable x. For a function $t \mapsto x ( t ) .$ , the notation ˙x and ¨x denotes the first and second time derivatives of x(t), respectively. The set of complex numbers is denoted by C. The variable $s \in \mathbb { C }$ denotes the Laplace variable (complex frequency), and $\omega \in \mathbb R$ denotes the real frequency, with $s = i \omega$ ωin the Fourier domain. Matrices are ωdenoted by upper-case letters. For a matrix A, its transpose is denoted by $A ^ { \top }$ , and its inverse (if it exists) is denoted by $A ^ { - 1 }$ . Inequalities between matrices are defined in the standard positive (semi)definite sense: $A \succ 0$ indicates that A is positive definite, while $A \succeq 0$ indicates positive semidefiniteness. Similarly, $A \prec 0$ and $A \preceq 0$ denote negative definite and negative semidefinite matrices, respectively.
