# 3.2 Solution in IV. (respectively II.) quadrant $x ( 0 ) \in C _ { a }$

In the following, we assume $x ( 0 ) \in C _ { a }$ while considering $x ( 0 )$ to be in the IV. quadrant (see Fig. 2). This is without loss of generality since the solutions in the IV. and II. quadrants are symmetric to each other about the origin. The solution for $x ( 0 ) \in C _ { a }$ in the II. quadrant can then be derived in the similar manner.

Proposition 1. The homogeneous solution of the feedback controlled system (1)–(3) with $d ~ = ~ 0 , ~ x ( 0 ) ~ \in ~ C _ { a }$ and $x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) > 0$ is given by

$$x _ {1} (t) = - \frac {\gamma}{\omega^ {2}} \cos (\omega t + \phi) + B, \tag {11}x _ {2} (t) = \frac {\gamma}{\omega} \sin (\omega t + \phi), \tag {12}$$

where

$$B = \frac {\gamma x _ {1} ^ {2} (0)}{2 \gamma x _ {1} (0) - x _ {2} ^ {2} (0)}, \tag {13}$$

and the harmonic parameters are

$$\phi = \pi + \arccos \left(1 - \frac {x _ {2} ^ {2} (0)}{\gamma x _ {1} (0)}\right), \quad \omega = \sqrt {\frac {\gamma}{B}}. \tag {14}$$

Proof. First, consider the proposed solution (11), (12) with the unknown values of B and harmonic parameters. The property $\dot { x } _ { 1 } ( t ) ~ = ~ x _ { 2 } ( t )$ can be verified by direct differentiation. Taking then the time derivative of (12), one obtains

$$\dot {x} _ {2} (t) = u (t) = \gamma \cos (\omega t + \phi). \tag {15}$$

Given the finite-time $( 0 < T _ { C _ { a } } < \infty )$ convergence of the control (2), (3) in the IV. quadrant, see Ruderman and Efimov (2025) for details and proofs, the control value at $T _ { C _ { a } }$ (i.e. in the state-space origin) satisfies

$$\dot {x} _ {2} (T _ {C _ {a}}) = \gamma = \gamma \cos (\omega T _ {C _ {a}} + \phi). \tag {16}$$

Using the right-hand-side equality in (16) and solving for both equations (11) and (12) the initial value (with the given x(0)) and final value $x ( T _ { C _ { a } } ) = 0$ problems, results in the parameter values (13) and (14).

Next, it is evident that the unperturbed closed-loop system (1)-(3) in the IV. quadrant transforms into

$$\dot {x} _ {2} (t) - \frac {x _ {2} ^ {2} (t)}{x _ {1} (t)} + \gamma = 0. \tag {17}$$

Substituting (11), (12), and (15) with (13) and (14) into (17), yields that the differential equation (17), and so (1)- (3) for the IV. quadrant, holds. This completes the proof.

Remark 5. The finite time of the convergence to origin is then obtained by solving directly (16) with (14) as

$$T _ {C _ {a}} = x _ {1} (0) \frac {\pi - \arccos \left(1 - \frac {x _ {2} ^ {2} (0)}{\gamma x _ {1} (0)}\right)}{\sqrt {\gamma x _ {1} (0) - x _ {2} ^ {2} (0)}}. \tag {18}$$

Note that (18) is computed for the first period of the otherwise periodic solution of (16) with respect to $T _ { C _ { a } }$ .
