# 6.2. Set-Membership Approaches

Set-membership approaches (Fogel, 1979) aim to determine the set of all systems that could generate the observed data. Since this feasible system set contains the underlying system, analyzing all systems within this set yields guarantees for the true system even if it cannot be identified due to, e.g., noisy data. Set theoretic methods for control, set membership based identification, and broadly, identification under uncertainty and identification for robust control, have a long history (see books such as Blanchini et al. (2008); Milanese et al. (2013); Chen and Gu (2003) and surveys such as Mäkilä et al. (1995); Milanese and Vicino (1991)). Given the wide scope of set membership approaches, we do not consider general set membership based system identification and control here; rather, we focus our attention on set membership approaches for direct identification of control-relevant properties like dissipativity, stability, and monotonicity.

For the ease of presentation, we focus on unknown LTI systems and refer afterwards to possible extensions in various directions. Consider the discrete-time LTI system

$$x _ {k + 1} = A ^ {*} x _ {k} + B ^ {*} u _ {k}, \tag {76}$$

with state $x _ { k } \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } }$ and input $u _ { k } \ \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ . To infer on the unknown system matrices $A ^ { * }$ and $B ^ { * }$ , we assume input-state samples {xk uk}N−1k=0 $\{ x _ { k } , \stackrel { \cdot } { u _ { k } } \} _ { k = 0 } ^ { N - 1 }$ are given with $x _ { k + 1 } = A ^ { * } x _ { k } + B ^ { * } u _ { k } + d _ { k } , k \ =$ $0 , \ldots , N - \overleftarrow { 2 }$ . The unknown disturbance vector $d _ { k }$ ,can incorporate process noise, nonlinear dynamics, or effects from inexact state measurements. We suppose that the disturbance is bounded $\| d _ { k } \| _ { 2 } \le \epsilon , k = 0 , \ldots , N - 2$ , with known bound $\epsilon > 0$ . ϵ, , . . . , ϵ >Note that the samples can also stem from multiple trajectories.

Under the given data and the pointwise-in-time noise characterization, we can infer on the set of system matrices

$$
\Sigma = \left\{\left[ \begin{array}{l l} A & B \end{array} \right]: \left\| x _ {k + 1} - \left[ \begin{array}{l l} A & B \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{l} x _ {k} \\ u _ {k} \end{array} \right] \right\| _ {2} \leq \epsilon , i = 0, \dots , N - 2 \right\} \tag {77}
$$
