However, the behavior becomes different once the discontinuous term is incorporated. Since the Lyapunov function (39) is shown to be bounded, it is guaranteed that the control inputs remain bounded. By Theorem 1, this boundedness ensures that the decay of the state estimation errors does not depend on whether the control input or the true state tends to zero.

Moreover, the discontinuous term will immediately become indispensable, when the tracking problem is considered instead of the stabilization problem. To illustrate this point, let system (6) track the following reference system

$$\dot {x} _ {r} = A x _ {r} + \sum_ {\iota = 1} ^ {N _ {c}} B ^ {\iota} (K ^ {\iota} x _ {r} + r ^ {\iota}), \tag {21}$$

where $K ^ { \iota }$ is a gain that can stabilize system (6), and $r ^ { \iota }$ is a bounded time-varying reference signal vector.

Theorem 4. Consider the case where $\nu ( t ) \equiv 0 ,$ , and implement the distributed observer-based control law

$$u ^ {\iota} = K ^ {\iota} \hat {x} _ {i ^ {\prime}} + r ^ {\iota}, \iota = 1, 2, \dots , N _ {c},$$

where $\hat { x } _ { i ^ { \prime } }$ is the state estimate generated by any observer node designed in Section III. If Assumptions 3, 5, and 6 hold, then the state tracking error $e _ { r } : = x - x _ { r }$ converges to zero. Moreover, the state estimation error $e _ { i }$ converges to zero, and adaptive gains $\gamma _ { i }$ and $\gamma _ { i s }$ remain bounded, $\forall i \in N .$ .

The proof of Theorem 4 is omitted due to its similarity to the proof of Theorem 3.

In the above tracking problem, the control input will not converge to zero, unless the reference signal itself converges to zero. Consequently, the results in Theorem 4 cannot be achieved without the discontinuous term in (17). This is illustrated by the simulation results in what follows.
