General control-relevant properties: Set-membership based identification has also been extended to learn systems that are known to satisfy control-relevant properties. For example, works such as Cerone et al. (2011); Lauricella and Fagiano (2020); Lauricella (2020); Tobenkin et al. (2013) develop set membership approaches explicitly incorporating a priori information on system stability in an error-in-variable (EIV) framework. Set-membership based identification for monotone dynamical systems has also been considered in the literature (Makdesi et al., 2023). In fact, exploiting a priori knowledge on monotonicity or dissipativity of the system has also been shown to improve the accuracy and data efficiency of set-membership approaches (Ramdani et al., 2006; Berberich et al., 2022b).

Summarizing, the set-membership perspective combined with modern robust control techniques establishes a flexible framework for verifying system properties for linear and nonlinear systems from noisy data with guarantees. Related to this approach, the data-informativity framework (Van Waarde et al., 2023) provides conditions on when the collected samples are informative to infer system properties as controllability or stabilizability. We now present an example to demonstrate direct data-driven verification of dissipativity from noisy data using set-membership approaches.

Example 6.2. We consider a mass-spring-damper system $m { \ddot { y } } ( t ) + d { \dot { y } } ( t ) + K y ( t ) = u ( t )$ with position of the mass $y ( t ) ,$ , external force u(t), mass m = 1 kg, damping coefficient $\begin{array} { r } { d = 1 ~ \frac { \mathrm { k g } } { \mathrm { s } } } \end{array}$ , and stiffness $\begin{array} { r } { K = 1 \frac { \mathrm { k g } } { \mathrm { s } ^ { 2 } } } \end{array}$ . The continuous-time system is discretized in time with time step $T = 0 . 5 \ : \mathrm { s }$ and the Euler method, which .yields the discrete-time state-space representation

$$
x _ {k + 1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & T \\ - \frac {K T}{m} & - \frac {d T}{m} + 1 \end{array} \right] x _ {k} + \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0 \\ T \end{array} \right] u _ {k}, \quad t \in \mathbb {N},

y _ {k} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 0 \end{array} \right] x _ {k}.
$$
