# 6.4. Input Design

We conclude this section by making some remarks on the challenges associated with the input design within the behavioral framework. In this setting, De Persis and Tesi (2021)

and Alsalti et al. (2023) present ideas for the design of inputs to ensure persistently exciting input-output sequences for locally identifying nonlinear systems and for certain classes of nonlinear systems, respectively. While these works determine one experiment to identify the system, multiple experiments are typically necessary for learning an uncertain nonlinear dynamics. In Section 6.3, we also reviewed schemes for verifying control-relevant properties by iteratively performing experiments. These schemes provide an input sequence in each iteration step to refine the data-driven inference. However, these iterations typically converge rather slowly, requiring a large amount of experiments. Thus, the application of these iterative schemes is time consuming and the suggested input sequences may not obey any safety conditions, limiting their practical application. To reduce the size of the set membership (77) by additional experiments, one could consider state-input pairs which generate informative constraints on (77). Here the challenge is to identify these pairs and to steer the system safely to the corresponding state. Moreover, while this procedure would reduce the conservatism of the set membership, it is not guaranteed to refine the inference on the system property. Given these challenges, input design for direct data-driven identification and control-relevant property verification in the behavioral setting is an important consideration that merits investigation.
