While there are many excellent surveys on various facets at the intersection of learning and control, our aim and presentation differ from them. Specifically considering the problem of system modeling and identification, there are two lines of research closely aligned with the focus of this paper. The first is physics-informed or scientific machine learning, surveyed in works such as Wang and Yu (2021); Chen et al. (2021b); Karniadakis et al. (2021); Cuomo et al. (2022); Willard et al. (2020); Yu and Wang (2024), where the idea is to leverage prior knowledge of system physics to enhance the generalizability and interpretability of deep learning models, with applications to a wide array of problems including forecasting, inference, and solution of ordinary or partial differential equations. However, these works do not typically focus on controlrelevant models, with the exception of recent tutorials (Nghiem et al., 2023; Drgona et al., 2025), some parts of which discuss physics-informed learning for system identification for specific model classes and structural priors. The second closely related line of research is identification for control, which has a long rich history, surveyed in works such as Gevers (2005), which typically focus on classical system identification tools. An exception here is Pillonetto et al. (2025) that focuses on deep learning architectures for system identification, primarily from the viewpoint of optimization algorithms and kernel-based methods. The renewed interest in data-driven control (van Waarde et al., 2025) in recent years has also led to surveys on data-driven system representations based on behavioral systems theory (Markovsky and Dörfler, 2021) and operator dynamical models such as Koopman operators (Bevanda et al., 2021). Even within these domains, there are no comprehensive surveys focusing on the problem of learning representations or models capturing specific control-relevant properties or physics-based constraints. This paper bridges the gap between these two lines of research and existing review papers, surveying both classical and learning-based approaches to address the specific problem of identifying physics-constrained and control-relevant models for dynamical systems and control synthesis.
