# C. Current Solutions to Distributed Stabilization

1) Conventional decentralized control: In early research [6], each agent generates local control input $u _ { i }$ only based 2on local output $y _ { i }$ 3 Controllers. Due to the resulting information-structure constraints, the system cannot be stabilized if it has unstable fixed modes. To address this limitation, sampling controllers [7, 8], vibrational controllers [9, 10], and periodically timevarying controllers [11, 12] have been explored over the 2 3 Observersdecades. The authors in [2] gave a complete answer as to which fixed modes are removable and which are not, by using general nonlinear and time-varying decentralized controllers. By allowing agents to communicate with each other, the decentralized overlapping control framework was developed [13–15]. This framework aims to characterize the necessary information that should be exchanged to achieve stabilization. Optimal information exchange and minimum communication problems were investigated in [16, 17]. In addition, a recent interesting result shows that two classes of uncertain multivariable linear systems are stabilizable by a monotonically increasing diagonal gain matrix [18].

2) Consensus-based cooperative control: Inspired by the success in distributed consensus control of multi-agent systems [19, 20], recent studies have shown that the distributed stabilization problem can be more appropriately addressed using well-designed consensus protocols. Within the consensusbased framework, agents are able to take full advantage of the information exchanged among them and act collaboratively. This enables the closed-loop system to bypass the aforementioned fixed-mode limitation and achieve improved control performance.
