For nonlinear systems, dissipativity from Definition 2.3 often holds only in the neighbourhood of an equilibrium. Incremental dissipativity (Forni et al., 2013; Verhoek et al., 2023b) extends this notion by considering the relationship between two arbitrary system trajectories. In general, incremental dissipativity implies dissipativity but not vice versa. For linear systems, incremental and non-incremental properties are equivalent. The analysis of incremental dissipativity can be particularly useful when operating a system in a transient mode, between operating points, or in a reference tracking scenario where stability and performance with respect to a certain trajectory are desired. Specifically, incremental dissipativity can be obtained by replacing the supply rate $s ( u , y )$ in Definition 2.3 by $s ( u _ { 1 } - u _ { 2 } , y _ { 1 } - y _ { 2 } ) , u _ { 1 } , u _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { U } , y _ { 1 } , y _ { 2 } \in \mathcal { Y } _ { \cdot }$ and the storage functions by $V ( x _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) , x _ { 2 } ( \cdot ) )$ , , , ,Analogous discrete-time notions of , .dissipativity and incremental dissipativity can also be appropriately defined, but are omitted here for brevity of exposition.

A particularly useful special case of dissipativity is the property of quadratic dissipativity, commonly referred to as QS Rdissipativity, defined as follows.

Definition 2.4 (QSR-Dissipativity). The nonlinear system (3) is said to be QS R-dissipative with dissipativity matrices $Q = Q ^ { \top }$ , S and $R \ = \ R ^ { \top }$ of appropriate dimensions, $i f \forall x \in X$ and control inputs $u \in \mathcal { U } ,$ Definition 2.3 holds with $s ( u , y ) ~ =$ $y ^ { \top } Q y + u ^ { \top } R u + 2 y ^ { \top } S u .$ ,. By selecting appropriate dissipativity matrices $Q , S ,$ and R, this formalism can capture several , ,control-theoretic properties of importance, including but not limited to:
