Adaptive Control Neural Network The ACC network is trained using our DF-Grad method. Its primary loss is the task loss $( l _ { \mathrm { t a s k } } )$ . To address the non-differentiable rendering of motion blur effects from varying exposure times, we draw inspiration from [46] and apply perturbation values $p _ { e }$ and $p _ { g }$ to adjust the predicted exposure time and gain during training. The perturbations are optimised using the GA in the perturbation mode of Fig. 2, enabling the ACC network to compensate for performance drops caused by nondifferentiably rendered effects. At each training step, n images are rendered using perturbed settings $\tilde { E }$ and ${ \tilde { G } } ,$ , where $\tilde { E } = E _ { \mathrm { p r e d } } + p _ { e } , \tilde { G } = G _ { \mathrm { p r e d } } + p _ { g }$ , and n is the GA population size. The perturbations that yield the best-performing image are selected and used to compute the loss:

$$l _ {G A} = \text { mean } (l _ {1} (\tilde {E}, E _ {\text { pred }}), l _ {1} (\tilde {G}, G _ {\text { pred }})). \tag {5}$$

Perturbations are updated at the same rate as the ACC and perception models, but $l _ { \mathrm { G A } }$ is only applied every i steps. This allows the GA to find new perturbations when illumination changes. In our experiments, we set $n = 4$ and $i = 4 ,$ with further details in the supplementary material.

In summary, the ACC network is updated with the proposed DF-Grad method using the summed loss of $l _ { t a s k }$ and $l _ { G A }$ . Based on empirical findings (see supplementary material), we weight these terms by 7 for $l _ { t a s k }$ and 1 for $l _ { G A }$ when computing the summed loss.

Perception Task We focus on deep learning-based perception tasks, which are optimised using gradient-based methods alongside the camera hardware and ACC network. The task loss updates both the task model and the ACC network, while a performance metric derived from the task guides optimisation of the camera hardware and perturbations.
