# 1. INTRODUCTION

Data-driven analysis and control of linear systems, utilizing Willems’ fundamental lemma (Willems et al., 2005), have been a topic of considerable interest in recent years. When deterministic data are available, behavioral systems theory provides a powerful framework that allows for treating various data-driven problems in a unified manner, such as simulation and output matching (Markovsky and D¨orfler, 2021, 2022). Since unique input-output behaviors can be identified with sufficiently informative data, equivalence can be shown for various data-driven formulations in the deterministic case (Coulson et al., 2019; Fiedler and Lucia, 2021).

Approaches start to diverge when stochastic uncertainties arise. One path is to recover the low-dimensional structure in the deterministic case via projection (Breschi et al., 2023) or low-rank matrix approximation (Markovsky and D¨orfler, 2022). This is a practical choice, dating back to subspace identification (Van Overschee and De Moor, 2012), but it requires knowledge of the model dimension and fails to encode specific stochastic properties for finitesample optimality. Others apply specific techniques to particular data-driven tasks, such as distributionally robust optimization (Coulson et al., 2022), empirical regularizers (D¨orfler et al., 2023; Coulson et al., 2019), polynomial chaos expansions (Pan et al., 2023), Kalman filtering (Smith et al., 2024; Yin et al., 2024), kernel methods with truncated ARX models (Chiuso et al., 2025), and maximum likelihood estimation (Yin et al., 2023). Yet, these techniques lack a coherent framework for general data-driven tasks with stochastic data.

This work introduces a unified Bayesian framework for linear systems that addresses stochastic data-driven problems through maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation. This framework can be seen as an extension of the behavioral systems theory to stochastic data. A wide class of stochastic uncertainties is considered, which allows for input errors, correlated noise, and elliptical distributions. Specifically, when a stochastic signal matrix is available, the following three data-driven tasks are considered.
