Using this property, a general passivity enforcement ${ \mathrm { a p - } }$ proach can be developed as follows. The eigenvalues of $M _ { H }$ are computed for the baseline (unperturbed) model to identify frequencies where $\sigma _ { \operatorname* { m a x } } ( G ( j \omega ) ) > 1$ . Then, the singular value decomposition is computed at these violation frequencies to obtain left and right singular vectors $u _ { i } , \nu _ { i }$ of $M _ { H }$ corresponding to ,the imaginary eigenvalues that represent the directions of passivity violation in the frequency response. Finally, the optimization problem to determine the minimal passivity-enforcing perturbation is formulated as:

$$\min \quad \| \Delta C \| _ {F} \tag {33}\mathrm{s.t.} \quad \Delta \lambda_ {i} < 0, \quad \operatorname{Re} \{u _ {i} ^ {H} \Delta G (j \omega_ {k}) v _ {i} \} < 0.$$

Such Hamiltonian perturbation approaches were originally proposed in Grivet-Talocia (2004), with subsequent works extending this approach to large-scale systems (Grivet-Talocia and Ubolli, 2006), descriptor systems where $D + D ^ { \top }$ is singular (Wang et al., 2010), negative imaginary systems (Mabrok et al., 2011), and proposing improved algorithms to decrease the dispersion of the perturbed model from the original dynamics (Gustavsen, 2008). We further direct the reader to the monograph by Grivet-Talocia and Gustavsen (2015) for an in-depth discussion of these approaches.

In the frequency domain, baseline rational transfer function models are often obtained through vector fitting approaches (Gustavsen and Semlyen, 1999). When the resulting models do not satisfy desired dissipativity properties, iterative poleresidue perturbation of the identified transfer function is employed to correct for violations at specific frequency ranges through heuristic or linear and quadratic programming approaches Gustavsen and Semlyen (2001); Gustavsen (2007); Saraswat et al. (2005, 2004); Chen and Fang (2003). Here, LMIs directly corresponding to properties like dissipativity or tools the Hamiltonian matrix in (30) may be employed for property verification.
