$$Y (s) = G (s) U (s) = \left(C (s I - A) ^ {- 1} B + D\right) U (s), \tag {6}$$

where $U ( s )$ and $Y ( s )$ are the Laplace transforms of the input $u ( t )$ 号 and output y(t), respectively. In the time domain, the relationship in (6) shows that, with zero initial conditions, the system output is the result of convolution:

$$y (t) = g (t) * u (t) = \int_ {0} ^ {t} g (t - \tau) u (\tau) d \tau \tag {7}$$

of the system impulse response $g ( t ) = C e ^ { A t } B + D \delta ( t )$ (inverse Laplace transform of $G ( s ) )$ δ with the input signal u(t).

A control law, also referred to as control policy, is a function $\pi : X \times [ 0 , \infty ) \to \mathcal { U }$ that determines an input $u ( t ) = \pi ( x ( t ) , t )$ π , π ,for a dynamical system based on the system’s current state x(t), time t, and desired behavior. The composition of the system dynamics model f in (3) with a control policy creates a closedloop system with dynamics model:

$$\dot {x} (t) = F (x (t), t) := f (x (t), \pi (x (t), t)). \tag {8}$$

To guarantee existence and uniqueness of solutions of the ODE in (8), the function F needs to be Lipschitz continuous in x and continuous in t (Khalil, 2002, Thm. 3.1). A special case of (8) arises when F does not explicitly depend on t; that is

$$\dot {x} = F (x), \tag {9}$$

in which case the closed-loop system is said to be autonomous.

If the system state x(t) is not available to the control policy, the input u(t) must be determined by an output-feedback control policy, relying on the output $y ( t )$ instead of $x ( t )$ . In this case, the closed-loop dynamics $F$ is obtained by the composition of the open-loop dynamics model $f ,$ the control policy $\pi ,$ and the output model h in (3).

Instead of representing a system using a state-space model (3) or transfer function (6), behavioral system theory (Markovsky and Dörfler, 2021; Willems, 1986a) considers a representation-free perspective, viewing a system as a set of trajectories:

$$\{\omega : [ 0, \infty) \to \mathbb {R} ^ {q} \}. \tag {10}$$
