Pioneering work in [21] and [22] proposed consensusbased distributed observers to address cooperative stabilization and output-regulation problems, respectively. More precisely, dynamic output feedback control was investigated, while explicit state estimation was not pursued therein. In [23], the authors were concerned with systems that admit an appropriate block-diagonal decomposition, and proposed a distributed observer for either state estimation in the absence of control inputs, or dynamic output feedback stabilization. Distributed state estimation and control problems were addressed in [24] through a quantized, rate-limited consensus protocol. Based on this protocol, the difference between the state estimates from agents can be made sufficiently small, as the number of consensus iterations increases. This enables each agent to estimate the linear state feedback control inputs applied by other agents, which contributes to the convergence of both control and state estimation errors. In another distributed stabilization framework, a consensus-based output estimator was developed, where each agent is responsible for estimating the global output of the entire system [25]. The output estimate is then fed into a state estimator residing in each agent. When agents apply linear state feedback control, co-designing the two estimators allows each agent to simultaneously achieve global input, global output, and full-state estimation. A plugand-play distributed stabilization framework was proposed in [3], where the stabilizing gains of the agents are computed by solving a Lyapunov equation in a fully distributed manner. In this framework, agents are allowed to join or leave the control loop freely during stabilization. Recent advances presented in [26, 27] also provide an insightful way to design distributed controllers based on the distributed observers developed in [28]. It is shown that the distributed control problem can be reformulated as a conventional decentralized control problem, and subsequently be solved by resorting to the fundamental ideas and analysis techniques developed for the latter [27]. In addition, the information fusion strategies developed in [29– 32] show their unique capabilities in dealing with distributed optimal and privacy-preserving control problems.
