# 3.1 Solution in I. (respectively III.) quadrant

For an arbitrary initial state 1 $x ( 0 ) = \left( x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) , x _ { 2 } ( 0 ) \right) ^ { \top } \geq 0 ,$ and the control system (1)–(3) with $\dot { d } = 0$ , the analytic solution of a double-integrator with the non-homogenous part $u ( t ) = - \gamma ,$ cf. (3), is given by, cf. Athans (1963),

$$x _ {1} (t) = x _ {1} (0) + x _ {2} (0) t - \frac {\gamma t ^ {2}}{2}, \tag {7}x _ {2} (t) = x _ {2} (0) - \gamma t \tag {8}$$

for the instants of time $t \geq 0$ when the trajectory stays in U. One can recognize that the analytic solution (7), (8) results in a parabolic trajectory, cf. Fig. 1, which starts at $\left( x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) , x _ { 2 } ( 0 ) \right)$ and ends when $x _ { 2 } ( T _ { U _ { + } } ) = 0$ for the finite reaching time

$$T _ {U _ {+}} = \frac {x _ {2} (0)}{\gamma}.$$

The latter is obtained for the I. quadrant by solving the final-value problem of (8) with $x _ { 2 } ( { t } ) = 0$ . Easy to recognize is that the transient time for the entire U is, respectively,

$$T _ {U _ {\pm}} = \frac {| x _ {2} (0) |}{\gamma}. \tag {9}$$

Remark 4. It is worth noting that also zero solution of the unperturbed system (1)–(3) for $x ( 0 ) = ( 0 , 0 )$ can equally be proven by using (7), (8). Indeed, depending on whether in the I. or III. quadrant, the solution (8) with $x _ { 2 } ( 0 ) = 0$ transforms to the set of equations

$$x _ {2} (t) = - \gamma t \quad \text { and } \quad x _ {2} (t) = \gamma t, \tag {10}$$

respectively. If $x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) \neq 0$ this leads to an instantaneous exit of the trajectory to the domain C. Otherwise, for $x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) = 0 \quad$ , the system is reduced to sliding mode dynamics (it corresponds to $\delta = 0$ of the control law (2), (3))

$$\dot {x} _ {1} (t) = x _ {2} (t), \dot {x} _ {2} (t) = - \gamma \operatorname{sign} (x _ {1} (t))$$

that has the equilibrium at the origin, and for all $t > 0$ when switching happens between γ with the infinite frequency so that $x ( t )$ remains zero. Consequently, $x ( t ) =$ (0, 0) is the unique solution of (1)–(3) for all $t > 0 \mathrm { i f } d = 0$ and ${ \bf \boldsymbol { x } } ( 0 ) = ( 0 , 0 )$ .
