# 7.1. Networked System Identification

Another major open question is the identification of networked systems, where imposing interconnection structure on the learned system matrices in addition to control-oriented and physics properties is a challenge. Many systems of practical interest are networked sub-systems that are dynamically coupled. Thus, for instance, it will be of interest when learning a model for a transportation network to preserve the structure of arterial roads and traffic intersections. Similarly, for a chemical reaction network, it may be of interest to learn the reaction rates while preserving the structure of the reactants and products.

A simple model of these interconnections for a linear system can be imposing certain elements of the system matrices A and B to be zero. Unfortunately, even for simple linear systems, identifying the system matrices typically yields a full matrix with scant regard to the desired structure. It is not clear that just setting the specified elements in the learned system matrices to be zero is necessarily the best solution. There has been some initial work Fattahi et al. (2019) on imposing a sparsity pattern on the learned system matrices; however, that work requires special assumptions on the matrices which may be difficult to check. Similarly, for special interconnection structures (i.e., those satisfying the so-called partially nested information pattern), some works Ye et al. (2022b,a) have shown that imposing sparsity constraints may not be important for learning optimal control laws; however, once again, it is not clear how generalizable these results are. The general problem of imposing interconnection structure during networked system identification remains open and an important avenue for future work.

Further, several networked systems like chemical reaction networks, power grids, and traffic flow networks satisfy controlrelevant properties like monotonicity that can be exploited for scalable control synthesis Sivaranjani et al. (2017). There have been some recent developments in this direction in Revay et al. (2021), where an identification for large-scale networked systems with monotonicity guarantees is proposed. However, network identification preserving both the graph structure and various control-relevant properties is still an open problem.
