# 3.3. Physics-Informed Identification as an Optimization Problem: Parametrization, Constraints, or Regularization?

Considering the identification problem for a nonlinear system (3), there are, in general, three ways of imposing structure on the obtained system model: direct parameterization, hard constraints, and soft constraints. In direct parametrization, we may use a particular parametrization of $f _ { \theta }$ and $h _ { \theta }$ to impose sysθ θtem properties, such as assuming linear structure and identifying A B C D matrices rather than a general neural network pa-, , ,rameterized dynamics $f _ { \theta } , h _ { \theta }$ . Alternately, we may impose hard θ, θconstraints on the parameters in the optimization problem in θ(14), such as dissipativity imposed as an LMI (Martin and Allgöwer, 2022a). Finally, we may impose a soft constraint on θin the form of a regularization term in the cost function in (14), which promotes a property of interest such as stability (Lechner et al., 2020) and energy conservation (Greydanus et al., 2019). These three ways of imposing model structure are summarized in Fig. 3. They can be introduced in the general system identification optimization in (14) as:

$$\min _ {\theta} c (\theta ; \mathcal {W}) := \sum_ {i} \int_ {t} \| y _ {i} (t) - \hat {y} _ {i} (t) \| ^ {2} d t + r (\theta)$$

$\mathrm { s . t . } \dot { \hat { x } } _ { i } ( t ) = f _ { \theta } ( \hat { x } _ { i } ( t ) , u _ { i } ( t ) ) ,$ (21)

$$\hat {y} _ {i} (t) = h _ {\theta} (\hat {x} _ {i} (t), u _ {i} (t)),g (\theta) \leq 0,$$

where $\mathcal { W } = \{ ( u _ { i } ( t ) , y _ { i } ( t ) ) \} _ { i }$ i represents the set of input-output ,trajectories from a continuous-time dynamical system, $f _ { \theta } ,$ h encode model structure through their parametrization, $g ( \theta )$ captures hard constraints on the model parameters $\theta ,$ and $r ( \theta )$ i s a regularization term capturing soft constraints.

We provide concise illustrations of each method. An example of imposing structure through direct parameterization is a Lagrangian neural network (Cranmer et al., 2020), which imposes the Euler-Lagrange equation in the design of $f _ { \theta }$ as a physics prior. Given a physical system with state $x = ( q , \dot { q } )$ , consisting of the system configuration $q$ and velocity ${ \dot { q } } ,$ , and torque input $u ,$ the Euler-Lagrange equation describes the system’s motion as:
