# D. Common Limitations and Current Challenges

Current consensus-based control frameworks share some common limitations and face challenges in some aspects:

• There is no separation principle established in the above literature. For example, it has been explicitly pointed out in [23, 24, 31] that separation principle does not hold in the distributed setup. Consequently, co-design of the distributed controllers and observers becomes necessary, which substantially increases the complexity of the distributed stabilization problem.

• The distributed observers presented in previous studies (e.g., [21, 28, 33]) typically ensure that the estimation errors converge to zero, when there are no control inputs or both the system states and control inputs approach zero. However, appropriately handling state estimation in the presence of persistent control inputs remains an open and ongoing research question.   
• The designed distributed controllers are not capable of stabilizing systems in the presence of unknown inputs that are often used to characterize system uncertainties [34]. Moreover, only limited studies have considered distributed tracking control problems.   
• The observer and controller design in an agent relies on the global output matrix $\mathrm { c o l } ( \bar { C _ { i } } ) _ { i = 1 } ^ { \bar { N } }$ . If the ??th agent only has access to local output matrix $C _ { i }$ , then additional consensus algorithms (such as Equation (16) in [25] and Equation (31) in [3]) should be carried out to propagate the global output matrix or other concerned matrices over the agent network.   
• As formulated in Section I-B, an agent not only receives local output information, but also takes local control actions. In practice, however, a sensor and an actuator may not be located near each other and managed by the same agent. This motivates the need for a flexible framework that allows the distributed observers and controllers to be designed separately.
