There are multiple choices for deciding which parameters to perturb. Perturbing the system matrix A is generally avoided, as it contains key dynamical features like dominant modes or eigenvalues. Alternatively, perturbation of the feedthrough matrix D can be leveraged in cases where $D > 0$ is necessary to >enforce strict dissipativity or other similar properties though it only affects direct input-output coupling, not internal dynamics. From a transfer function view, this is an asymptotic perturbation affecting behavior as $s \to \infty$ . Since passivity is an input-output property, perturbing the input matrix B or output matrix $C$ is also natural, as in Example 4.1. Such approaches for identifying dissipative (including QS R-dissipative) models have been explored in Sivaranjani et al. (2022); Bradde et al. (2020).

Another approach for passivity enforcement in identified models is to consider the Hamiltonian matrix. Consider a parameterized state-space realization $( A , B , C , D )$ of order n with corresponding transfer function $G ( s )$ , , ,The associated Hamiltonian matrix $M _ { H } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 n \times 2 n }$ . is defined as:

$$
M _ {H} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A - B R _ {1} ^ {- 1} D ^ {\top} C & - B R _ {1} ^ {- 1} B ^ {\top} \\ C ^ {\top} S _ {1} ^ {- 1} C & - A ^ {\top} + C ^ {\top} D R _ {1} ^ {- 1} B ^ {\top}, \end{array} \right] \tag {30}
$$

where $R _ { 1 } \ = \ I - D ^ { \top } D$ , and $S _ { 1 } ~ = ~ I - D D ^ { \intercal }$ . Assuming that $\| D \| = \sigma _ { m a x } ( D ) < 1$ , passivity violations occur when M has σ <purely imaginary eigenvalues $\mu _ { k } = j \omega _ { k }$ , or correspondingly, at µ ωfrequencies where the largest singular value of $G ( j \omega )$ exceeds ωunity. When only the C matrix of the system is perturbed to $C +$ ∆C as discussed above, the corresponding perturbation on the

Hamiltonian can be written using the first-order approximation:

$$
\Delta M _ {H} \approx \left[ \begin{array}{c c} B R _ {1} ^ {- 1} D ^ {\top} \Delta C & 0 \\ - C ^ {\top} S _ {1} ^ {- 1} \Delta C - \Delta C ^ {\top} S _ {1} ^ {- 1} C & - \Delta C ^ {\top} D R _ {1} ^ {- 1} B ^ {\top}. \end{array} \right] \tag {31}
$$

The perturbation affects the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian matrix according to

$$\Delta \lambda_ {i} = \frac {v _ {i} ^ {H} \Delta M _ {H} w _ {i}}{v _ {i} ^ {H} w _ {i}} \tag {32}$$

where $\nu _ { i }$ and $w _ { i }$ are the left and right eigenvectors corresponding to the imaginary eigenvalues of the original Hamiltonian.
