In contrast to the behavioral approach in Section 6.1, the setmembership approach enables dissipativity determination from noisy data and over an arbitrary time horizon, as required for the application of feedback laws (Khalil, 2002). Set membership approaches have also been extended to various model classes beyond LTI systems and control-relevant properties like stability and monotonicity as discussed in the sequel.

Polynomial dynamics: For systems with polynomial dynamics, common in applications such as fluid mechanics (Chernyshenko et al., 2014) and robotics (Majumdar et al., 2013), the dynamics can be expressed as $x _ { k + 1 } = F z ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } )$ with unknown coefficient matrix $F$ ,and a known vector of monomials $z ( x _ { k } , u _ { k } )$ . Dissipativity can then be verified using sum-,of-squares relaxations, leading to an SDP formulation (Martin and Allgöwer, 2021b). More generally, input-output properties such as integral quadratic constraints (IQCs) can also be verified using this representation (Martin and Allgöwer, 2022a).

General nonlinear dynamics: While linear and polynomial systems directly lead to a set membership suitable for an analysis by SDPs, general nonlinear systems yield non-convex optimization problems, even in the model-based case. To circumvent the non-convexity and to provide guarantees for the verification of system properties, the nonlinear system behavior can be embedded into a system representation suitable for an analysis using SDPs as summarized in the survey Martin et al. (2023). For example, dissipativity has been verified using Taylor-based approximations (Martin and Allgöwer, 2022b), piecewise polynomial models (Martin and Allgöwer, 2021a), or embedding into linear parameter-varying (LPV) representations (Miller and Sznaier, 2023; Verhoek et al., 2023a).
