# 2. BACKGROUND AND PROBLEM FORMULATION

Consider a discrete-time linear time-invariant (LTI) system $y _ { t } ^ { 0 } = G u _ { t } ^ { 0 }$ with $n _ { x }$ underlying states, where $\bar { \boldsymbol u _ { t } ^ { 0 } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { u } }$ and $\bar { y } _ { t } ^ { 0 } \in \mathbb R ^ { n _ { y } }$ are the true inputs and outputs, respectively. Suppose the inputs and outputs are subject to uncertainties with $u _ { t } = u _ { t } ^ { 0 } + w _ { t }$ and $y _ { t } = y _ { t } ^ { 0 } + v _ { t }$ , where $w _ { t }$ and $v _ { t }$ denote the actuation and measurement uncertainties, respectively. All the perturbed signals at time t are denoted by $\begin{array} { r } { z _ { t } : = \mathrm { c o l } \left( u _ { t } , y _ { t } \right) = z _ { t } ^ { 0 } + \bar { \nu } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , n : = n _ { u } + n _ { y } , } \end{array}$ , where $z _ { t } ^ { 0 } : = \mathrm { c o l } \left( u _ { t } ^ { 0 } , y _ { t } ^ { 0 } \right)$ is the unknown true signals and $\nu _ { t } : = \operatorname { c o l } \left( w _ { t } , v _ { t } \right)$ denotes the uncertainties.

This paper considers the problem of obtaining the optimal estimate of a length-L signal trajectory from possibly partial information of the corrupted trajectory and historical data of signal trajectories. In particular, assume that we have obtained M full signal trajectories of length $L \colon \mathbf { z } _ { i } ^ { d } : =$ col $\left( z _ { t _ { i } + 1 } ^ { d } , z _ { t _ { i } + 2 } ^ { d } . . . , z _ { t _ { i + L } } ^ { d } \right) \ \in \ \bar { \mathbb { R } } ^ { n L }$ , for $i = 1 , 2 , \dots , M$ where the superscript d denoted historical data. Concatenating these trajectories column-wise formulates the signal matrix: $H : = \left\lceil \mathbf { z } _ { 1 } ^ { d } \ \mathbf { z } _ { 2 } ^ { d } \ \cdot \cdot \cdot \ \mathbf { z } _ { M } ^ { d } \right\rceil \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { n L \times M }$ , which is referred to as the offline data in what follows. For analysis purposes, we also define the true signal matrix $H ^ { 0 }$ and the uncertainty matrix $\Delta _ { H } \colon H = H ^ { 0 } + \Delta _ { H }$ .

The objective is to estimate another signal trajectory $\mathbf { z } ^ { 0 } : = \mathrm { c o l } \left( z _ { 1 } ^ { 0 } , z _ { 2 } ^ { 0 } \ldots , z _ { L } ^ { 0 } \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n L }$ from offline data (instead of the model G) and existing knowledge of the trajectory. This trajectory is referred to as the online trajectory. The knowledge is expressed by

$$\boldsymbol {\zeta} = \Phi \mathbf {z} ^ {0} + \epsilon , \tag {1}$$
