The increase in stored energy of a PH system is less than or equal to the externally supplied power, which means that the system is passive with respect to the supply rate. PH systems may possess other conserved quantities, primarily determined by their Dirac structures. Conserved quantities which are independent of the Hamiltonian are called Casimir functions C(x). They satisfy $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { \partial C } { \partial x } ( x ) ^ { \top } ( J ( x ) - R ( x ) ) = 0 } \end{array}$ and can be ∂used to construct candidate Lyapunov functions for the system (Ortega et al., 1999, 2008; Xu et al., 2022).

Various methods have been proposed for identification of PH system models. Branford and Rapisarda (2019) use energy conservation and power flows to identify linear time-varying PH systems from input-output data. They show that minimal state trajectories can be obtained from a rank-revealing factorization of an energy matrix, obtained by integrating the power balance of the effort and flow trajectories. Benner et al. (2020) obtain PH realizations of strictly passive systems from frequency response data using the Loewner approach for model reduction (Mayo and Antoulas, 2007) to enforce a PH structure on the model. Ortega and Yin (2024) propose a structure-preserving learning scheme for single-input single-output linear PH systems with n states. The paper establishes morphisms between controllable and observable linear systems and normal form PH systems. The set of uniquely identifiable PH systems is characterized as a manifold with global Euclidean coordinates and the parameter complexity for representing such systems is shown to be O(n) instead of $O ( n ^ { 2 } )$ . Thus, the paper shows interesting connections between controllable and observable canonical forms and the structure-preservation and expressive power properties of the machine learning model.
