# 3. Image Formation

We propose a joint optimisation method for camera hardware, ACC algorithms, and perception tasks, illustrated in Fig. 2. This section outlines the image formation model used. In digital cameras, pixel intensity corresponds to the number of photons arriving at a pixel area (ϕ) during exposure time (E), scaled by the camera gain (G):

$$I _ {i, j} = E G \phi , \tag {1}$$

where $I _ { i , j }$ is the intensity at pixel location $( i , j )$ in image I .

We use a virtual camera to capture a simulated environment or pre-captured real-world images in this work. The images are calibrated against a physical camera with known dynamic parameters $( E _ { 0 }$ and $G _ { 0 } )$ , which are also employed during optimisation for intensity adjustment. The calibrated images serve as I in (1). We assume global shutters and add motion blur to the images based on E and scene motion.

In operation, intensities at time t are updated using the exposure $( E _ { t } )$ and gain $( G _ { t } )$ ) predicted by the ACC network:

$$I = I _ {0} \frac {E _ {t}}{E _ {0}} \frac {G _ {t}}{G _ {0}}, \tag {2}$$

where $I _ { 0 }$ is the calibrated image. This process is the forward mode in Fig. 2.

Image noise is a key phenomenon in image formation. As most camera simulators lack realistic noise models, we augment I with synthetic noise based on the affine noise model [15]. This includes signal-dependent Poisson noise and thermal noise, calibrated with a physical camera following established procedures [51, 53]. The same calibration parameters $( E _ { 0 } , G _ { 0 } )$ are reused for calibrating the noise model. We then generalise this model to handle variable $E _ { t }$ and $G _ { t }$ . The generalised pixel-level intensity variance is

$$\sigma^ {2} = \frac {G _ {t}}{G _ {0}} \sigma_ {p} ^ {2} I + \frac {G _ {t} ^ {2}}{G _ {0} ^ {2}} \sigma_ {r} ^ {2}, \tag {3}$$

where $\sigma _ { p }$ and $\sigma _ { r }$ denote the calibrated photon and thermal noise parameters, respectively, and I is the image intensity from (2) [53]. Dark-current noise is omitted because the exposure times are short $( E _ { t } \ll 1 \mathrm { ~ s ) }$ and operation is assumed to occur at room temperature [1]. This noise model was proposed and validated in [53].

Finally, pixel intensities are clipped to the sensor’s white level $( M _ { \mathrm { w h i t e } } )$ , the maximum measurable value. We use 8- bit images, where $M _ { \mathrm { w h i t e } } = 2 ^ { 8 } - 1$ .
