The SINDy-TD3 framework proposed shown in Fig. 1 follows a similar conceptual structure. In the beginning, real experience is collected from the environment using a default policy which can be a random input to the system, an untrained neural network or an input signal to explore and capture system dynamics [7]. Then, for the model learning phase, instead of using a simple table-based model as performed by the Dyna-Q, SINDy is used to learn a continuous data-driven model with limited interaction with real-world environment. This learned model will then act as a surrogate environment in order to generate simulated experience for the TD3 agent. In this framework, the learned dynamics model is used periodically to generate synthetic experience through simulated roll-outs using trained TD3 agent, these simulated experience is then added to the replay buffer along with real environment interactions done through direct RL so that the real buffer now has both real and simulated data. This combination of data will allow the TD3 agent to refine its policy between real-world episodes, improving sample efficiency and reducing the reliance on extensive physical interaction.

Algorithm 1 shows in detail the steps of the proposed framework. It starts with an initial data set provided by an untrained policy or a random input applied to the system. This data will then be used to train a SINDy model in order to capture the system dynamics. To ensure the learned model is accurate, the RL training reward will be computed using the SINDy model and the real environment and the error between them will be computed. If the error is high, the SINDy model will be updated with more TD3 real experience until the error is zero so that the model can be used in the planning step. While the model is learning, the TD3 agent will interact with the environment using the current policy to collect real experience and update the replay buffer in order to update the policy, meanwhile simulated experiences done by SINDy planning will also be added to the relay buffer in order to accelerate the training process until reaching the trained control policy which will then be deployed in the real environment.

In the following sections, each step of the algorithm will be discussed in more details.
