# 7.4. Experiment Design

Experiment design, broadly pertaining to the design of input sequences, data filtering, and sampling approaches are central to system identification. The design of input sequences for identification is particularly critical. Ideally, the input sequence must yield rich and meaningful data that excite all modes. On the other hand, the collection of data samples for system identification may be expensive, especially in online settings. Typically, the goal is to balance these tradeoffs.

This problem has been extensively studied in classical system identification, including closed-loop identification for control (see works such as (Goodwin, 1977; Hjalmarsson, 2005; Gevers and Ljung, 1986) for a survey of this area) and the persistent excitation conditions (Narendra and Annaswamy, 1987; Willems et al., 2005b; Markovsky et al., 2023). Input design for MLbased system identification is especially critical, since learning algorithms (such as neural network training) often require massive amounts of data, which is difficult to acquire in control applications. However, this area has received limited consideration in learning-based identification. A key open question is how to optimize input design while simultaneously ensuring that the learned model satisfies control-relevant properties. Imposing such properties places nontrivial structural constraints on the feasible excitation signals, thus altering the underlying geometry of the optimal experiment design problem. Further, imposing control-theoretic constraints may require balancing information gain against performance degradation or violations of control-relevant properties during data collection. Therefore, developing principled methods for experiment design while imposing control-relevant properties, particularly in online or data-limited regimes, is a critical direction.
