where $\theta = \left\{ { { W } _ { 1 : L } } , { { W } _ { 1 : L } ^ { ( x ) } } , { { b } _ { 1 : L } } \right\}$ are neural network weights and biθ , ,ases and is the non-linear activation function. In order for the σneural network output to be strictly convex with respect to the input, all $W _ { 2 : L }$ are required to be positive, $W _ { 1 : L } ^ { ( x ) }$ could be either positive or negative, and the activation function needs to be σstrictly convex and increasing, such as the softplus activation function Glorot et al. (2011). Such neural network architecture is also known as the input convex neural network (ICNN) Amos et al. (2017) in the literature. Gradient of the strictly convex ICNN output with respect to the network input, i.e., ∂o $\begin{array} { r } { \mathrm { i . e . , } \frac { \partial o } { \partial x } } \end{array}$ satisfies ∂the monotonicity condition. An illustration of this monotone neural network design is presented in Figure 7.

Wang et al. (2024) introduces another MNN architecture of the form $f ( x ) = \mu x + m ( x )$ where is a positive constant (termed µ µMNN2 in Figure 10). m(x) is a feed-through neural network, with connections from each hidden layer to the input and output variables. The feed-through neural network is parameterized to guarantee monotonicity and bi-Lipschitzness via the integral quadratic constraint framework and the Carley transform. MNNs have been applied to monotone system modeling, including power system frequency control (Cui et al., 2024; Feng et al., 2025), power system voltage control (Shi et al., 2022b; Feng et al., 2023), where monotone controller policies are constructed to guarantee closed-loop stability by design.

Example 5.2 (Monotone Neural Network for Power System Model Identification). To illustrate the idea of MNN and standard FNN for monotone system identification, we provide an example for distribution power system identification from Feng et al. (2023). The distribution power network can be represented by a graph $\mathcal { G } = ( N , \mathcal { E } )$ , where $N : = \{ 1 , 2 , 3 , . . . , n \}$ rep-, , , , ...,resents the node set and E is the edge set. Each node $i \in N$ is associated with an active power injection $p _ { i }$ and a reactive power injection qi. Let $V _ { i }$ be the complex voltage and $\nu _ { i } = | V _ { i } | ^ { 2 }$ be the squared voltage magnitude. For any node j as a child node of node i, the following equations represent the branch flow model:
