2) We investigate the problem of feedback-based optimization [30]–[33] with fixed-time convergence guarantees and without requiring time-scale separation or passivitybased assumptions. By leveraging the proposed fixedtime small-gain theorem, we show in Theorem 2 that a fixed-time gradient flow with unit gain, interconnected in feedback with a plant that has been pre-stabilized in fixed time, drives the trajectories of the resulting closed-loop system toward the solution set of a timevarying optimization problem, provided the curvature of the quasi-steady state cost function is sufficiently large relative to the “smoothness” of the dynamics. Since no internal model of the exosystem generating the time variations is assumed to be available, convergence is characterized in terms of a residual tracking error. This error is quantified using the FxT-ISS property, where the input corresponds to the rate of change of the optimizer. To the best of our knowledge, this result represents the current state of the art in feedback-based optimization.

3) To further demonstrate the applicability of the proposed fixed-time small-gain theorem to multi-agent systems, we extend the feedback optimization framework to Nash equilibrium seeking in non-cooperative games with dynamic plants in the loop [34]–[36]. We show in Theorem 3 that a class of decoupled fixed-time pseudogradient flows, akin to those studied in [37] for static

mappings, achieves fixed-time stability with respect to the Nash equilibrium in potential games, even when the game dynamics are interconnected with nonlinear plant dynamics using no timescale separation $o r$ passivitybased assumptions. The resulting fixed-time convergence properties are illustrated through numerical examples. To the best of our knowledge, this result is the first in the context of Nash seeking with plants in the loop that achieves fixed-time stability for the closed-loop system.
