○ a set of vertices, $V ~ = ~ \{ v _ { 0 } , v _ { 1 } , \ldots , v _ { n } \}$ , where each element is labelled as $\ell ( v _ { p } ) = \mathcal { X } _ { p }$ , $p = 0 , 1 , \ldots , n ,$ and   
○ a set of edges, $E = E _ { 1 } \cup E _ { 2 }$ , where $E _ { 1 } = \left\{ \left( v _ { p } , v _ { q } \right) \big | \ell \big ( v _ { p } \big ) = \mathcal { X } _ { j } , \ell \big ( v _ { q } \big ) = \mathcal { X } _ { k } \right.$ such that there exists $i \in \mathcal N$ satisfying $A _ { i } x + B _ { i } \mu \in \mathcal { X } _ { k }$ for all x $\in { \mathcal { X } } _ { j } \operatorname { a n d } \mu = 0 \}$ , and $E _ { 2 } = \big \{ \big ( \boldsymbol { v } _ { p } , \boldsymbol { v } _ { q } \big ) \big | \ell \big ( \boldsymbol { v } _ { p } \big ) =$ $\mathcal { X } _ { j } , \ell ( v _ { q } ) = \mathcal { X } _ { \ell }$ ℓ such that there exists i ∈ N satisfying $A _ { i } x + B _ { i } \mu$ ∈ Xℓ for allx ∈ $\chi _ { j }$ and some $\mu = \mu ( x ) \in \mathcal { U } \setminus \{ 0 \}$ . The edges $( v , v ^ { \prime } ) \in E _ { 1 }$ 1 are labelled as $\ell ( v , v ^ { \prime } ) = ( i , 0 )$ and the edges $( v , v ^ { \prime } ) \in E _ { 2 }$ are labelled as $\ell ( v , v ^ { \prime } ) = ( i , \mu ( x ) )$ .

Remark 2. Notice that $G ( V , E )$ is a multi-graph possibly in the sense that between two fixed vertices, multiple edges with different labels may exist. For simplicity of exposition, we will continue with the word graph unless an explicit mention of the word multi-graph is necessary.

Fix $( v , v ^ { \prime } ) \in E$ . We will use $\alpha ( v , v ^ { \prime } )$ and $\beta ( v , v ^ { \prime } )$ to refer to the first element of $\ell ( v , v ^ { \prime } )$ and the second element of $\ell ( v , v ^ { \prime } )$ , respectively.

In Definition 4 we associate a labelled directed graph, $G ( V , E )$ , to the switched system (2.1). The vertices of this graph are the elements in the state-space abstraction of the switched system under consideration. In other words, the vertices represent different regions of the state-space. The edges represent transitions between these regions. The labels on the edges carry information about the cause of the transitions in terms of the discrete and continuous control. We shall connect maximum hands-off hybrid control sequences with entities on the transition graph of the switched system (2.1).
