In this paper we continue with our study of maximum hands-off hybrid control for discrete-time switched linear systems.
Our focus is on the setting where the subsystems of the switched system operate in closed-loop, i.e., in addition to the switching sequence and the initial condition, the state evolution is governed by a control input.
Since the switching sequence maps to a finite number of subsystems and the control inputs are real numbers of appropriate dimension, they are referred to as discrete control and continuous control, respectively, and as hybrid control together.
We also assume that the set of admissible switches between the subsystems and the set of admissible continuous control actions on the subsystems are pre-specified.
A restriction on discrete control is natural to systems where switches between certain subsystems are prohibited, e.g., automobile gear switching, while a restriction on continuous control is natural to systems where actuator saturations and noise are prevalent, e.g., aerospace systems.
We call a hybrid control sequence as maximum hands-off if it satisfies the given restrictions on continuous and discrete control and is a sparsest in the sense that the sum of (a) the number of switches from one subsystem to another, i.e., changes in the discrete control in consecutive time instants and (b) the number of non-zero continuous control, is minimum among all hybrid control sequences that satisfy the given restrictions and steer a given initial state of the switched system to the origin of the state-space in a given time horizon.
It is clear that a maximum hands-off hybrid control can be expressed as solution to a minimization problem whose (i) decision variable is a hybrid control sequence that obeys pre-specified restrictions on continuous and discrete control and achieves the above mentioned control objective, and (ii) the objective function is the sum of individual sparsity of two vectors — the first vector contains the difference between every two consecutive elements of the discrete control sequence and the second vector is the continuous control sequence.
Notice that this optimization problem is non-convex — in particular, the domain of discrete control is non-convex and sparsity of a vector (commonly measured by $\ell _ { 0 } { \mathrm { - n o r m } } )$ is a non-convex function.
