Notation: Rm×n and Rn are the sets of all $m \times n \cdot$ - dimensional real matrices and n-dimensional real vectors, respectively. The sets $\mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } ^ { n \times n }$ and $\mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } ^ { n \times n }$ represent positive definite and positive semi-definite real matrices. Complex number and vector spaces are written as S and $\mathbb { S } ^ { n } ,$ respectively. N denotes the set of natural numbers, while $\hat { \mathbb { N } } _ { + }$ stands for the set of positive integers. I is an identity matrix with appropriate dimensions, 0 is a zero matrix, and 1 is a column vector of ones. diag $\left\{ A _ { 1 } , \ldots , A _ { n } \right\}$ is a diagonal matrix with $A _ { 1 } , \ldots , A _ { n }$ as the diagonal elements. range(·) indicates the range of an operator. $\left\| \cdot \right\| _ { \infty }$ stands for the $\ell _ { \infty } { \mathrm { - n o r m } }$ . Unless otherwise specified, $\| \cdot \|$ represents the $\ell _ { 2 } { \mathrm { - n o r m } }$ . The space $\ell _ { 2 }$ is defined as the set of all real sequences whose squared magnitudes are summable, i.e., $\begin{array} { r } { \hat { \ell _ { 2 } } = \{ x = ( x _ { n } ) _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \mid \sum _ { n = 1 } ^ { \infty } \breve { | x _ { n } | ^ { 2 } } < \infty \} } \end{array}$ . denotes the Kronecker product. Given a square matrix $A \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ , $\lambda _ { 0 } ( A )$ denotes the smallest positive eigenvalue, and $\operatorname { t r } ( A )$ represents its trace. For a symmetric matrix A, the notation $A \succ 0$ and $A \succeq 0$ indicate that A is positive definite and positive semi-definite, respectively. The mathematical expectation is denoted by E[ ]. P(B) is the probability of event B. Finally, $\mathcal { N } ( 0 , \dot { \Sigma } )$ denotes a zero-mean Gaussian distribution with covariance matrix Σ. For two sequences a(t) and b(t), we write $a ( t ) = O ( b ( t ) )$ if there exists a constant $c > 0$ and a time $\dot { t } _ { 0 }$ such that $| a ( t ) | \leq c | b ( t ) | , \forall t \geq t _ { 0 }$ .
