# 3.2 Convergence Analysis

The unconstrained control input $u _ { i } ( t )$ in (9), obtained via explicit MPC (Bemporad et al., 2002), can be expressed as

$$u _ {i} (t) = c (t) K _ {i, t} \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}} a _ {i j} (\hat {x} _ {i j} (t) + d _ {i j} - x _ {i} (t)), \tag {11}$$

where $K _ { i , t }$ is a time-varying and positive definite gain matrix depending on $c ( t ) , \ Q _ { i }$ and $R _ { i }$ . One can refer to Bemporad et al. (2002) to compute $K _ { i , t }$ . If i and $\mathcal { R } _ { i }$ are bounded, $K _ { i , t }$ remains bounded for all t ∈ N. The closedloop system dynamics for agent i under (11) are given by

$$x _ {i} (t + 1) = x _ {i} (t) + c (t) \sum_ {j \in \mathcal {N} _ {i}} a _ {i j} K _ {i, t} (\hat {x} _ {i j} (t) + d _ {i j} - x _ {i} (t)). \tag {12}$$

ated errors . Analogous $\xi _ { l _ { k } }$ intack $\xi \ =$ $[ \xi _ { l _ { 1 } } ^ { \top } , \xi _ { l _ { 2 } } ^ { \top } , \ldots , \xi _ { l _ { N _ { \varepsilon } } } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ $\eta _ { l _ { k } } \mathrm { a s } \eta = [ \eta _ { l _ { 1 } } ^ { \top } , \eta _ { l _ { 2 } } ^ { \top } , \dots ,$ $\eta _ { l _ { N _ { \varepsilon } } } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ η⊤lNE ] . The convergence properties of ξ(t) are given below.

Theorem 1. Consider the $\mathrm { M A S \ ( 1 ) }$ under Assumptions 1 and 2. If the sequence $c ( t ) > 0$ is designed such that $c ( t ) \in \ell _ { 2 }$ , then under Algorithm 1, the tracking error ξ(t) converges almost surely and in mean square.

Proof. Based on (6) and (12), the dynamics of ξ(t) are given as

$$\xi (t + 1) = \xi (t) - c (t) (B \otimes \mathbf {I} _ {n}) K _ {t} (B ^ {\top} W \otimes \mathbf {I} _ {n}) [ \xi (t) - \eta (t) ], \tag {13}$$

where B is the incidence matrix, $K _ { t } = \operatorname { d i a g } \{ K _ { 1 , t } , \ldots , K _ { N , t } \}$ , and W is the edge weight matrix. Define $\Psi _ { t } \triangleq ( B \mathbb { \exp } \left( \frac { \Delta } { } \right)$ ${ \bf \cal I } _ { n } ) K _ { t } ( B ^ { \top } W \otimes { \bf \cal I } _ { n } )$ . Due to the boundedness of $K _ { i , t } , i =$ $\mathbb { 1 } , \dots , N , \forall t \in \mathbb { N }$ , there exists $\mathrm { \ a \ \ } \rho _ { \Psi } > 0$ such that $\| \Psi _ { t } \| \leq$ ρ , t N. Given the positive definiteness of $K _ { t } , \ddot { B }$ is full row rank according to Lemma 1, and $W = \mathbf { I } _ { N \varepsilon } , \mathbf { \bar { \Psi } } _ { \varepsilon }$ can be verified to be positive definite.

The convergence of $\xi ( t + 1 )$ is now analysed. Following from (13),
