Up to now, a variety of differentially private distributed cooperative control frameworks have been investigated (Huang et al., 2012; Cort´es et al., 2016; Nozari et al., 2015, 2017; Hawkins and Hale, 2020). In Nozari et al. (2017), the authors introduced a differentially private consensus mechanism to protect agents’ initial states and established a trade-off between DP and consensus error. They proved that, within their algorithmic framework, it is impossible to achieve both accurate consensus and bounded differential privacy simultaneously. This fundamental dilemma has also been reported in Cort´es et al. (2016); Nozari et al. (2015); Huang et al. (2024). Nozari et al. (2015) discussed the optimal selection of noise parameters for a differentially private average consensus algorithm. However, to the best of our knowledge, the above differentially private distributed cooperative designs, as well as other existing results, rely entirely on actively injected noise to achieve privacy. The impact of inherent communication noise has largely been overlooked. In fact, a similar insight can be found in the wireless communication field, where inherent communication noise (modeled as Gaussian white noise) has been leveraged to enhance privacy in federated learning frameworks (Liu and Simeone, 2020, 2022; Liu et al., 2024). Notably, passive factor such as stochastic quantizers has recently been employed to achieve differential privacy in single-system tracking control (Liu et al., 2026). Nevertheless, due to the structure of the designed algorithms, bounded DP cannot be guaranteed solely through communication noise (Liu and Simeone, 2022; Liu et al., 2024). Although Liu and Simeone (2020) shows that communication noise alone can ensure privacy in federated learning, this conclusion holds only when the gradient of the cost function is bounded in relation to the local dataset size, the communication channel parameters and privacy budget. These insights motivate a fundamental question: can inherent communication noise itself, when properly integrated into a distributed cooperative control mechanism, guarantee bounded privacy without the need for any actively injected noise?
