As a result, numerical design of maximum hands-off hybrid control sequences is not a straightforward task.
In this paper we are interested in the algorithmic design of maximum hands-off hybrid control sequences for discrete-time switched linear systems.

We studied the above problem in the absence of pre-specified restrictions on discrete and continuous control in [4], which to the best of our knowledge, is the only work on maximum hands-off hybrid control for discrete-time switched linear systems available in the literature. An algorithm to design sparse hybrid control sequences by employing a mixed-integer convex optimization problem was presented. The optimization problem computes a sparsest hybrid control sequence employing ℓ1-approximation (i.e., a convex relaxation of $\ell _ { 0 } .$ -norm). It was shown that the $\ell _ { 0 }$ -sparsest and $\ell _ { 1 }$ -sparsest quantities coincide under satisfaction of certain conditions (viz., restricted isometry property and range space property) by certain matrices constructed using the subsystems dynamics, the given initial condition and the given time horizon. However, in practice, numerical verification of these sufficient conditions are often difficult. Indeed, the class of deterministic matrices that satisfy restricted isometry property is small [1] and often not representative of the dynamics of a practical switched system. In this paper we present a new algorithm that designs maximum hands-off hybrid control sequences for discrete-time switched linear systems that admit a certain abstraction of the state-space.

We consider the subsystems dynamics, the sets of admissible continuous and discrete control, the initial state and the time horizon to be given, and take the following route towards the design of a maximum hands-off hybrid control:
