○ Firstly, we construct an abstraction of the state-space as a set of mutually disjoint sets of states (representing different regions of the state-space) that together span the entire state-space and admit well-defined transitions under admissible switches and continuous control.   
○ Secondly, we associate a labelled directed graph to a switched system and call it a transition graph. The vertices of this graph are labelled with the elements of the statespace abstraction, and the edges of this graph represent transitions between the different regions of the state-space under switches and continuous control. The edges are labelled to keep track of the corresponding switches and continuous control causing a transition.   
○ Finally, we show that a maximum hands-off hybrid control sequence corresponds to a minimum weight walk of a certain length that starts and ends at certain specific vertices on the transition graph of a switched system in the sense that the maximum hands-off discrete and continuous control sequences can be constructed by employing the relevant information on the weights of the edges that appear in the walk.

With our techniques, maximum hands-off hybrid control sequences can be designed by employing off-the-shelf graph algorithms that find minimum weight walks on a directed graph. We also present a set of sufficient conditions on the subsystems dynamics and the admissible control under which the state-space abstraction, which is a cornerstone of our results, is admitted by a switched system. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first instance in the literature where the design of maximum hands-off hybrid control sequences for discrete-time switched linear systems under pre-specified restrictions on continuous and discrete control, is addressed using graph theory. We also demonstrate through numerical examples that our results cater to switched systems where restricted isometry (resp., range space property) based maximum hands-off guarantees, presented in our earlier work [4], cannot be inferred.
