specify under renewable variability and complex demand patterns. [5] proposed a distributed primary-frequency controller with a disturbance-independent average-temperature based regulator, while [6] used robust MPC with data-driven disturbance forecasts to provide frequency support under buildingscale thermal constraints. However, prior work does not assess how the the DHS temperature-regulator design affects closedloop electro–thermal dynamic interactions and performance when HPs contribute to frequency regulation. This study addresses this gap using a mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty } .$ –passivity framework that links DHS regulator structure to CHP frequency control performance.

In particular, a mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty } .$ –passivity method is proposed that ensures stability and enhances performance, while achieving optimal energy sharing in the DHS. Furthermore, it yields tractable LMI conditions for the DHS temperature controller design. The key contributions of this paper are: 1) A DHS regulator is proposed that converges to the optimal electro– thermal operating point under uncertain demand; 2) A mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty } .$ –passivity framework is formulated linking DHS regulator structure to CHP frequency-control dynamic behaviour, enabling more efficient frequency support; 3) Analytical convergence guarantees are provided for the CHP system considered. The paper is structured as follows. Section II formulates the DHS–EPS model, Section III develops and analyzes the control scheme, and Section IV presents simulation case studies.
