# I. INTRODUCTION

The flatness-based control of nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODEs) is based on the parametrization of all system variables by a flat output [5]. The parametrization of the system’s input allows for the derivation of a system description in controller canonical form or Brunovsky normal form, state representations that significantly simplify the design of feedforward and state feedback (tracking) controllers. This approach also extends to infinite-dimensional systems. For hyperbolic single-input (SI) systems with dynamic boundary conditions, a flatness-based control concept is introduced in [19]. Its central element is the transformation of the system into hyperbolic controller form (HCF), a special state representation in which the system dynamics are represented by a single boundary-actuated transport equation [14], analogous to the chain of integrators in the finite-dimensional case. In HCF, the control design becomes straightforward, and the resulting control law can be readily expressed as feedback of the original system state through the corresponding, invertible state transformation.

Generalizing the flatness-based control design from SI to multi-input (MI) systems poses additional challenges, similar to the ODE case. In the latter, the controller form is no longer unique [7] as it may be represented by integrator chains of different length. Moreover, it may involve time derivatives of the input, rendering it a generalized state representation [13]. In this case, a purely static state feedback is generally insufficient for trajectory tracking. Similar considerations arise for hyperbolic MI systems, as discussed in [16] for boundary-actuated systems without in-domain coupling.
