Falb and static IQC multipiers are picked individually. Other initial conditions do not change, then the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance γ with different control strategies are also exhibited in Table I. In particular, the mixed-IQC-based γ-suboptimal $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ statefeedback controller (15) yields a smaller performance level $\gamma$ than the corresponding single-IQC-based designs. Compared with single IQC, we have obtained the desired $\mathcal { L } _ { 2 }$ gain using the mixed IQCs with scaling factors. This remarkable characteristic attributes to the introduction of scaling factors $\lambda _ { l }$ for $l \ \in \ { \bf I } { [ 1 , N _ { n _ { \psi } } ] } \ ( k \ = \ 1 $ and l = 3 in this example). By regulating the weight of each IQC and solving the convex synthesis condition (25), we are able to obtain the optimised performance level $\gamma$ all the time. These results show that the proposed controller design strategy improves the closedloop behavior and provides better attenuation of the external disturbance d.

Moreover, we usually obtain a pole of closed-loop system with large magnitude in the left half of complex plane after solving synthesis condition (25). As [28] proposed, one can place the poles in an LMI region $\mathcal { S } ( \rho , \theta )$ of complex numbers $\xi + j \eta$ such that $\xi ~ < ~ - \rho ~ < ~ 0$ and tan $\theta \xi ~ < ~ - | \eta |$ . The corresponding LMI conditions are described as:

$$A _ {c l} X _ {D} + X _ {D} A _ {c l} ^ {\mathrm{T}} + 2 \rho X _ {D} < 0 \tag {34}
\left[ \begin{array}{l l} \sin \theta (A _ {c l} X _ {D} + X _ {D} A _ {c l} ^ {\mathrm{T}}) & \cos \theta (A _ {c l} X _ {D} - X _ {D} A _ {c l} ^ {\mathrm{T}}) \\ \cos \theta (A _ {c l} X _ {D} - X _ {D} A _ {c l} ^ {\mathrm{T}}) & \sin \theta (A _ {c l} X _ {D} + X _ {D} A _ {c l} ^ {\mathrm{T}}) \end{array} \right] <   0. \tag {35}
$$

Here, convexity is enforced by seeking a common solution $X _ { D } = Q > 0$ to (25), (34) and (35), and some conservatism could be introduced this way. Though the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ performance in the terms of disturbance attenuation could be sacrificed, satisfactory transient response of linear systems can be ensured in the simulation.
