$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {H} (X _ {i} (t), U _ {i} (t), p (t)) = c _ {i} ^ {T} \phi (X _ {i} (t), U _ {i} (t)) \\ + p _ {i} ^ {T} (t) f (X _ {i} (t), U _ {i} (t)), \tag {26} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $p _ { i } ( t )$ is the costate trajectory for the optimal control problem of the $i ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ follower pigeon. If $( X _ { i } ( t ) , U _ { i } ( t ) )$ ) is optimal, that is, $( X _ { i } ( t ) , U _ { i } ( t ) ) \ = \ ( X _ { i } ^ { \star } ( t ) , U _ { i } ^ { \star } ( t ) )$ , where $( X _ { i } ^ { \star } ( t ) , U _ { i } ^ { \star } ( t ) )$ is the optimal solution of problem (21) for a given $c _ { i }$ , then there exists a costate trajectory, $p _ { i } ( t ) : \mathbb { R }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ (here, $p _ { i } ( t ) ~ = ~ p _ { i } ^ { \star } ( t )$ , where $p _ { i } ^ { \star } ( t )$ is the optimal costate trajectory) and it is necessary that [19], [40]:

$$\dot {p} _ {i} ^ {T} (t) + c _ {i} ^ {T} \nabla_ {X _ {i}} \phi | _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} + p _ {i} ^ {T} (t) \nabla_ {X _ {i}} f | _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} = \mathbf {0}, \tag {27}c _ {i} ^ {T} \nabla_ {U _ {i}} \phi | _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} + p _ {i} ^ {T} (t) \nabla_ {U _ {i}} f | _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} = \mathbf {0}. \tag {28}$$

In minimum principle based methods, it is assumed that the measurements are only approximately optimal and not strictly optimal [19]. In the hard-constrained method [39], (27) is considered to be strictly satisfied while (28) is considered to be satisfied only approximately. Hence, the left-hand side of (28) is minimized assuming (27) holds strictly. Thus, the optimization problem for this method becomes:

$$\underset {c _ {i}} {\text { minimize }} \quad c _ {i} ^ {T} W c _ {i},$$

$\begin{array} { r l } { \mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } } & { { } \dot { L _ { i } } ( t ) = - \nabla _ { X _ { i } } \phi ^ { T } | _ { ( X _ { i } , U _ { i } ) } } \end{array}$ (29)

$$- \left. \nabla_ {X _ {i}} f ^ {T} \right| _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} L _ {i} (t).$$

where $L _ { i } ( t )$ is a variable such that $\begin{array} { r } { p _ { i } ( t ) = L _ { i } ( t ) c _ { i } , L _ { i } ( t _ { f } ) = } \end{array}$ $\mathbf { 0 , }$ and the constraint equation for $L ( t )$ in the optimization problem (29) is obtained from equation (27). The matrix W in the optimization problem (29) is given as:

$$W = \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {f}} W _ {1} ^ {T} (t) W _ {1} (t) d t, \tag {30}W _ {1} (t) = \nabla_ {U _ {i}} \phi^ {T} | _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} + \nabla_ {U _ {i}} f ^ {T} | _ {(X _ {i}, U _ {i})} L (t), \tag {31}$$

obtained from equation (28). The hard-constrained IOC method for single flight data for the follower pigeons can be understood from the block diagram in Fig. 4. At first, the swarming behaviour of the flock of pigeons is formulated as an optimal control problem. The state and control trajectories of the pigeons are measured. The IOC problem is then solved using the real-time trajectories of pigeons being plugged into the functions $\phi ( \cdot )$ and $f ( \cdot )$ in the optimal control problem formulated.
