# 2.3 Problem statement

Classical solutions to mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ design primarily rely on Riccati equations or LMIs. While effective for smallto medium-scale systems, these techniques offer limited insight into the optimization landscape, and may face challenges in high-dimensional or data-driven settings.

In this work, we revisit the mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control in (10) from a nonconvex optimization perspective. Our goal is to uncover key structural properties and lay a theoretical foundation for policy optimization, focusing on three aspects:

(1) Geometry of the optimization landscape. We study the geometry of the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ -constrained feasible domain $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ in (6), and analyze key properties of the mixed cost function in (9), including continuity, analyticity, and gradient expressions.   
(2) Global optimality of stationary points. We investigate whether problem (10) admits spurious stationary points. We further derive the optimality conditions, and analyze the existence and uniqueness of stationary points.   
(3) Analysis via the ECL framework. We explore if the hidden convexity in problem (10) can be revealed via an appropriate convex lifting. In particular, we ask if an extended convex lifting (ECL) can be constructed to certify the global optimality of stationary points.

Collectively, our results provide a renewed understanding of mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control through nonconvex optimization and convex lifting, and offer guidance for the design of principled policy optimization algorithms in large-scale or model-free settings.
