# 4.2 Existence of stationary points

Theorem 3 and Corollaries 2-3 do not ensure the existence of stationary points. In particular, the optimality conditions (20) may be infeasible. We summarize this fact below.

Fact 1 Under Assumptions 1 and 2, the mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control (10) may admit no stationary points in $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ , and its optimal value may not be attained within $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ .

In fact, the infeasibility of (20) stems from an overly stringent robustness requirement. Relaxing the constraint by increasing β ensures the existence of a stationary point.

Theorem 4 Under Assumption 1, there exists a threshold $\bar { \beta } > 0$ such that for all $\beta > \bar { \beta }$ , problem (10) admits a stationary point $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ . Equivalently, there exists (K, X, Γ) satisfying (20) where X is the stabilizing solution to (20b).

Note that this existence result does not rely on the assumption $R _ { \infty } = \alpha ^ { 2 } R _ { 2 }$ . The proof uses a perturbation argument around the LQR case. The key insight is that as $\beta \to \infty$ , the optimality conditions (20) converge to those of LQR (Remark 3), where a stationary point always exists. The details are technically involved, and we present them in Appendix B.2.

In contrast, the single-channel case always admits a stationary point attaining the optimal value, thanks to its connection to $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ suboptimal control (Remark 4).

Theorem 5 Under Assumptions 1 and 2, the singlechannel problem (10) with $z _ { 2 } = z _ { \infty }$ admits a unique stationary point $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ , given by $K = - R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \boldsymbol { \mathsf { T } } } P$ , where $P$ is the stabilizing solution to the Riccati equation (22b).

Proof: By [39, Theorem 17.6] and [44, Theorem 20.2.1], (22b) admits a stabilizing solution if and only if $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ is nonempty, satisfied by Assumption 1. Then, under Assumption 2, the stationary point is given by (22a), and its uniqueness follows from that of the stabilizing solution. □

We provide a simple example illustrating Theorems 4 and 5, showing that the existence of stationary points depends on $\beta .$ .
