In the minimum principle based methods, it is assumed that the measurements, $( x ( t ) , u ( t ) )$ , are only approximately optimal and not strictly optimal [19]. In a strictly optimal system, equations (15) and (16) hold strictly whereas in an approximately optimal system, either or both of equations (15) and (16) hold only approximately [19] [39]. In the hard-constrained method [39], equation (15) is considered to be strictly satisfied while equation (16) is considered to be satisfied only approximately. In this method, the left-hand side of equation (16) is minimized assuming equation (27) holds strictly. In the hard-constrained method [39], constraints are imposed on the control trajectories in the primary problem. We will not consider constraints on the control trajectories in this work. The IOC problem for the method is:

$$\underset {c} {\text { minimize }} \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {f}} \| \nabla_ {u} H (x (t), u (t), p (t)) \| ^ {2} d t, \tag {17}$$

$\begin{array} { r l } { \mathrm { s u b } \mathrm { l e c t ~ t o ~ } } & { { } p ( t ) = - \mathrm { v } _ { x } H ( x ( t ) , u ( t ) , p ( t ) ) , } \end{array}$

$$p (t _ {f}) = \mathbf {0}.$$

In the hard-constrained method [39], a variable, $L ( t )$ , is considered such that $p ( t ) ~ = ~ L ( t ) c$ . Thus, problem (17) is reformulated as:

$$\underset {c} {\text { minimize }} \quad c ^ {T} W c,$$

$\begin{array} { r l } { \mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } } & { { } \dot { L } ( t ) = - \nabla _ { x } \phi ^ { T } ( x ( t ) , u ( t ) ) } \end{array}$ (18)

$$- \nabla_ {x} f ^ {T} (x (t), u (t)) L (t), L (t _ {f}) = \mathbf {0}.$$

Here,

$$W = \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {f}} W _ {l} ^ {T} (t) W _ {l} (t) d t, \tag {19}$$

and

$$W _ {l} (t) = \nabla_ {u} \phi^ {T} (x (t), u (t)) + \nabla_ {u} f ^ {T} (x (t), u (t)) L (t). \tag {20}$$

The constraint equation on $L ( t )$ in the optimization problem (18) is obtained from equation (15). The purpose of this section was to understand the hard-constrained minimum principle-based method. In the next two sections, this method will be extended to solve the inverse trajectory tracking optimal control problem for each follower pigeon in the flock.
