# 5.3 Convex reformulation and its solvability

The ECL construction also leads to a convex reformulation in (24), which offers further insight into problem (10).

Theorem 7 Consider problem (10) and the convex set $\mathcal { F } _ { \mathrm { c v x } }$ in (25b). Under Assumptions 1 and 2, we have

$$\inf _ {K \in \mathcal {K} _ {\beta}} J _ {\text { mix }} (K) = \min _ {(\gamma , X, Y) \in \mathcal {F} _ {\mathrm{cvx}}} \gamma . \tag {27}$$

We use “min” in (27) to indicate that the optimum is always attained (see Proposition 1). Unlike (10) optimizing K over the policy space $\kappa _ { \beta } .$ , the convex reformulation in (27) optimizes $( \gamma , X , Y )$ over the higher-dimensional set $\mathcal { F } _ { \mathrm { c v x } }$ .

The result most relevant to Theorem 7 is [5, Theorem 4.3], which gives a similar reformulation via strict LMIs (equations (30)-(31) therein). While the strict formulation yields the same optimal value, it does not capture the global optimality of all stationary points (Theorem 3).

We now address the solvability of the reformulation.

Proposition 1 Let $\gamma ^ { * }$ be the (finite) optimal value of (10). Under Assumptions 1 and 2, the following statements hold.

(1) The reformulation in (27), i.e. min $^ { \mathrm { l } } ( \gamma , X , Y ) \in \mathcal { F } _ { \mathrm { c v x } } \ \gamma _ { ; }$ , admits a solution. That is, there exists $( \gamma ^ { \ast } , X ^ { \ast } , Y ^ { \ast } ) \in$ $\mathcal { F } _ { \mathrm { c v x } }$ attaining the minimum $\gamma ^ { * }$ .   
(2) The corresponding policy $K ^ { * } : = Y ^ { * } ( X ^ { * } ) ^ { - 1 }$ lies in $\operatorname { c l } ( K _ { \beta } )$ with its extended cost value $\tilde { J } _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ( K ^ { * } ) = \gamma ^ { * }$ .
