Further details and extensions of these results can be found in the related works [3, 6, 9, 10, 24, 25].

Inspired by above research, we investigate the second order necessary conditions for optimal control problems of quantum stochastic system driven by fermion Brownian motion in this paper, which is an important class of physical models used to describe quantum optical systems [12]. In [20], we have obtained the Pontryagin-type maximum principle for Problem (QOP), which is a first order necessary condition for quantum optimal controls. However, due to the influence of quantum noise, the control problems of infinite-dimensional quantum stochastic systems become complex under conditions of nonlinearity, constraints, or high uncertainty, potentially leading to singular control problems. Therefore, when solving such problems, it is essential to consider the second order necessary conditions for optimal control to ensure the stability and optimality of the control strategy.

To achieve the desired result, we have undertaken the following efforts. First, based on the isometric property of stochastic integrals in non-commutative spaces, we derive the necessary estimates. Next, we introduce the parity operator Υ to address the non-commutativity between operators, which enables us to construct the required variational equations and adjoint equations. Additionally, we propose higher differentiability conditions for the cost functional, allowing us to obtain the corresponding Taylor expansion [22–25]. Finally, using the estimates from the variational equations, we obtain the main results by combining the Fermion Itˆo’s formula and the relaxed transposition solutions to the second order adjoint equations.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we provide some useful estimates corresponding to the control system and present some results for quantum stochastic differential equations. In Section 3, we establish the integral-type second order necessary optimality conditions for quantum stochastic optimal controls.
