• Achievable performance with informative measurements. As indicated by the above fundamental limitation, to hope for a meaningful regret sublinear in T , an online learning algorithm needs to receive extra information beyond the system output history. To this end, we consider a reasonable and practical scenario where the online algorithm has limited queries to more informative measurements of the underlying system’s state. We show that under the extra queries of the√ measurements, achieving a $\sqrt { T } .$ -regret is possible. We also explicitly characterize the trade-off between the number of extra measurement points and the achievable regret. Such a trade-off is made possible by a novel random query scheme that we introduce into our online algorithm design, which may be of independent interest to the field of online optimization and online learning.

Related Work. The problem of adaptive filtering for output estimation of a linear dynamical system has been studied in the literature for decades [21–25]. While being able to tackle uncertain or changing system model and noise statistics, this classic line of work mainly focuses on the asymptotic performance guarantees of the proposed methods. Recently, algorithms for learning Kalman filtering for output estimation with finite-time performance guarantees have been proposed with sample complexity analysis [10] or regret bound analysis [10–12, 14] for stable or marginally stable linear dynamical systems. The algorithm design in these papers is based on least squares methods, and the technical tools are carefully built upon recent advances in finite-sample analysis of control and system identification [8, 26–29]. While the problem of learning Kalman filtering for state estimation has been considered in [30, 31], they assume that there is an oracle that can directly return the system state or state estimation error for the proposed algorithms.
