Motivated by this gap, we develop an optimal filtering framework for non-Markovian cavity systems in waveguide QED. We construct a dynamical model in which the Langevin equations are represented as a linear continuous-time system incorporating mixed delays. This modeling approach retains the essential nonlocal coupling and multi-delay characteristics of the original system. Notably, coupling and propagation delays induce noncommutativity among system operators at different times, rendering existing quantum filtering techniques inapplicable. To overcome this difficulty, we propose an optimal filter design framework based on an interval-wise recursive computation of delayedstate statistics, leading to an interval-wise backward recursion algorithm for filter implementation. Finally, numerical simulations are presented to assess the tracking performance of the proposed filter in the original system, where the results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed approach.

In Section 2, we derive the Langevin equation for a cavity coupled to a waveguide at two distant points as well as its input-output equation. In Section 3, we design our optimal filter for estimation of the cavity mode state. In Section 4, an example is given to show the effectiveness of our filter. Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section 5.

Notation For a matrix $A = [ A _ { s , t } ]$ , the symbols $A ^ { T }$ and $A ^ { \dagger }$ represent the transpose and Hermitian conjugate of A. Given a complex number $a , a ^ { \dagger }$ represents its conjugate. The matrix $\mathcal { M } ( a )$ is defined as $\mathcal { M } ( a ) _ { s , t } ~ =$ $\left[ { \begin{array} { c c } { a + a ^ { * } } & { i ( a - a ^ { * } ) } \\ { - i ( a - a ^ { * } ) } & { a + a ^ { * } } \end{array} } \right]$ . Given two operators M and $N .$ , $[ M , N ] = M N - N M$ is their commutator. For an operator $p , \langle p \rangle$ represents the expectation values of this operator. Symbol H.c. represents Hermitian conjugate of the corresponding term.
