It is well-known that the Kalman filter for (state) estimation and the Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) for control are dual problems, and when the system model is known, they yield the same solution strategy based on solving a set of Riccati equations [4, 32]. The important problem of learning LQR with unknown system model has been well-studied in the literature with an optimal√ T -regret [33–38]. However, when the system model is unknown, learning Kalman filtering and learning LQR are no longer dual of each other, since the learning landscape of the Kalman filter contains an extra set of parameters due to the measurement matrix in partially observed linear dynamical system. This is a common phenomenon identified in the literature on learning in partially observed systems [31,39] and learning in decentralized systems with limited state information [40–42].

Notations. The sets of integers and real numbers are denoted as Z and R, respectively. For a real number a, let ⌊a⌋ be the largest integer that is greater than or equal to a. A positive semidefinite matrix P is denoted by $P \succeq 0$ , and $P \succeq Q$ if and only if $P - Q \succeq 0$ . For a vector $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , let ∥x∥be its Euclidean norm. For a matrix $P \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ , let $\rho ( P ) , \| P \|$ , and $\| P \| _ { F }$ be its spectral radius, spectral norm, and Frobenius norm, respectively. The Kronecker product is denoted as ⊗. For a matrix $P \succeq 0$ , let $P ^ { 1 / 2 }$ be any matrix $P _ { 1 }$ such that $P _ { 1 } ^ { \top } P _ { 1 } = P$ , and let $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( P )$ (resp., λmax(P )) be its smallest (resp., greatest) eigenvalue. Let $I _ { n }$ be an n-dimensional identity matrix. Given any integer $n \geq 1 , [ n ] \triangleq \{ 1 , . . . , n \}$ . Let $\sigma ( \cdot )$ represent the sigma-field generated by the random variables in its argument. Let $\mathcal { N } ( 0 , P )$ be a zero-mean Gaussian distribution with covariance $P \succeq 0$ . Let $[ P _ { i } ] _ { i \in [ n ] } = \left[ P _ { 1 } \quad \cdot \cdot \quad P _ { n } \right]$ be a concatenation of matrices $P _ { i } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m _ { i } }$ i .
