stochastic coupled nonlinear dynamic complex network under adaptive proportional-integral control was investigated. In [25], a fully distributed tracking control protocol was proposed for the stochastic nonlinear stochastic MASs with Markov switching topology by designing intermittent adaptive gains. Additionally, in [26], the fully distributed bipartite timevarying formation tracking control problem for heterogeneous linear MASs with stochastic disturbances was investigated under a signed Markovian switching topology. However, the aforementioned literature primarily focuses on synchronization or tracking control problems in the mean square(m.s.) sense and the interaction topologies among the nodes or followers are assumed to be undirected. The conventional analytical techniques for undirected graphs are proven inadequate for the case of directed graphs due to their reliance on symmetric properties–a fundamental feature absent in directed networks. This methodological incompatibility becomes particularly pronounced in stochastic cases, where two critical challenges arise: i) the existence of solutions for stochastic systems under fully distributed protocols requires rigorous verification, and ii) the almost sure(a.s.) and m.s. consensus in stochastic environment need theoretical examination. These inherent complexity of conducting consensus analysis and protocol synthesis for directed graphs under stochastic conditions leaves this a challenging problem. At present, to the best of our knowledge, for stochastic MASs, no existing work has addressed the design of fully distributed control protocols for directed graphs while ensuring stochastic a.s. consensus, which is one of the motivations for our work.
