# Optimal trajectory tracking control problem for each follower pigeon in the flock

It will now be assumed that the trajectories of each follower pigeon is generated by solving an optimal trajectory tracking problem. It has been hypothesised that natural movements and locomation are optimal [16], [17]. Hence, formulating each leader-follower pigeon pair in a flock as an optimal control

$$X _ {T _ {i}} (t) = \left[ x _ {T _ {i}} (t) \quad y _ {T _ {i}} (t) \quad z _ {T _ {i}} (t) \quad v _ {x _ {T _ {i}}} (t) \quad v _ {y _ {T _ {i}}} (t) \quad v _ {z _ {T _ {i}}} (t) \right] ^ {T} \tag {5}X _ {T _ {M}} (t) = \left[ x _ {A} (t - 0. 2) \quad y _ {A} (t - 0. 2) \quad z _ {A} (t - 0. 2) \quad v _ {x _ {A}} (t - 0. 2) \quad v _ {y _ {A}} (t - 0. 2) \quad v _ {z _ {A}} (t - 0. 2) \right] ^ {T} \tag {6}$$

problem is a logical choice. The optimal trajectory tracking control problem for the $i ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ follower pigeon is given as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \underset {U _ {i} (t)} {\text { minimize }} \quad (X _ {T _ {i}} (t) - X _ {i} (t)) ^ {T} Q _ {i} (X _ {T _ {i}} (t) - X _ {i} (t)) \\ + U _ {i} (t) ^ {T} R _ {i} U _ {i} (t) \tag {4} \\ \end{array}
$$

$\mathrm { s u b j e c t ~ t o ~ } \dot { X } _ { i } ( t ) = \boldsymbol { \mathcal { A } } \boldsymbol { X } _ { i } ( t ) + \boldsymbol { \mathcal { B } } \boldsymbol { U } _ { i } ( t ) .$

In the optimal control problem $( 4 ) , X _ { T _ { i } }$ shown in equation (5) at the top of pg. 4 is the desired trajectory of the $i ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ follower pigeon, where $x _ { T _ { i } } ( t ) , \ y _ { T _ { i } } ( t )$ and $z _ { T _ { i } } ( t )$ are the desired $\mathbf { X } , \mathbf { y }$ and z positions and $v _ { x _ { T _ { i } } } ( t ) , v _ { y _ { T _ { i } } } ( t )$ and $v _ { z _ { T _ { i } } } ( t )$ are the desired velocities along the $\mathbf { X } , \mathbf { \Sigma } \mathbf { y }$ and z directions. $Q _ { i } ~ \geq ~ 0$ and $R _ { i } ~ > ~ 0$ are the respective weighing matrices on the tracking error $( X _ { T _ { i } } ( t ) - X _ { i } ( t ) )$ and the control efforts $U _ { i } ( t ) . ~ X _ { T _ { i } } ( t )$ is chosen as the time-delayed trajectory of the corresponding leader in the leader-follower pair under consideration. For example, for the pair A-M in Fig. 2, the leader pigeon is A and the follower pigeon is M. The desired trajectory of M, $X _ { T _ { M } } ( t )$ , is the time-delayed trajectory of pigeon A with the delay time as 0.2 s as shown in equation (6) as shown at the top of pg. 4.

Assumption 1: It is assumed that the weighing matrices $Q _ { i } \geq 0$ and $R _ { i } > 0$ are diagonal.
