$$\mathsf {R} _ {\mathbf {x}} (T) = \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} \left\| x _ {t} - \hat {x} _ {t} (M _ {t}) \right\| ^ {2} - \sum_ {t = 0} ^ {T - 1} \left\| x _ {t} - \hat {x} _ {t} ^ {\mathrm{KF}} \right\| ^ {2}, \tag {21}$$

where $\hat { x } _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { K F } }$ is the Kalman filter for state estimation in hindsight given by (5). The major challenge here is that the decision-maker does not have direct access to the cost $f _ { t } ( M _ { t } ) = \left. x _ { t } - \hat { x } _ { t } ( M _ { t } ) \right. ^ { 2 }$ incurred after choosing $M _ { t }$ at each time step $t \geq 0$ . We will provide a remedy for this issue when we study the state estimation problem in Section 5 of the paper.

Summary of our main results. In Section 3, we characterize properties of the cost functions $f _ { t } ( \cdot )$ in both the output and state estimation problems, which will be useful throughout. In Section 4, we propose to use an online gradient descent algorithm for learning Kalman filtering for output estimation and show that it yields an ${ \mathcal { O } } ( \log ^ { 4 } T )$ regret via the conditionally strong convexity of the cost function. In Section 5.1, we first characterize a fundamental limitation of learning Kalman filtering for state estimation, proving that for any online algorithm given only access to system outputs $y _ { 0 } , y _ { 1 } , . . . ,$ , the algorithm inevitably incurs an $\Omega ( T )$ regret. In Section 5.2, we consider a scenario where the online algorithm has limited queries to more informative measurements of the system state (besides the original system output history), and propose a novel variant of online√ gradient descent algorithm based on random queries that achieves an $\tilde { \mathcal { O } } ( \tau + \sqrt { T } )$ regret for learning Kalman filtering for state estimation, where τ is the number of queries for informative measurements.
