# A Organization of Appendix and Notations

In Appendix B, we provide the proofs of several preliminary results stated in Sections 2-3, including properties of the truncated steady-state Kalman filter $\hat { x } _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { T K } }$ introduced in (12) and properties of estimation error cost function $f _ { t } ( \cdot )$ . In Appendix C, we provide proofs pertaining to the regret bound of Algorithm 1 when applied to the problem of learning Kalman filtering for output estimation. In Appendix D, we provide the proof of the regret lower bounds for learning Kalman filtering for state estimation and the proofs pertaining to the regret bounds of Algorithm 2 when applied to solve the problem of learning Kalman filtering for state estimation. In Appendix E, we prove some technical lemmas that are used in the proofs of our main results.

Table 1: Notations 

<table><tr><td>Notation</td><td>Definition</td></tr><tr><td> $\mathcal{K}_N, \mathcal{K}_M$ </td><td>Sets of candidate filter parameters for output and state estimation, resp.</td></tr><tr><td> $R_N, R_M$ </td><td>Upper bounds on the norm of filter parameters in  $\mathcal{K}_N$  and  $\mathcal{K}_M$ , resp.</td></tr><tr><td> $\beta_y, l_y$ </td><td>Smooth and Lipschitz parameters of  $f_t(N)$  in output estimation, resp.</td></tr><tr><td> $R_x, R_y$ </td><td>Upper bounds on the norm of state and output of system (1), resp.</td></tr><tr><td> $R_{\tilde{v}}$ </td><td>Upper bound on the noise in the informative measurements given by (38)</td></tr><tr><td> $\alpha_0, \alpha_1, \psi, \bar{\sigma}$ </td><td>Bounds on system parameters given in (13)</td></tr><tr><td> $N^{\star} = [N_s^{\star}]_{s \in [h]}$ </td><td>The optimal filter parameter of  $\hat{y}_t^{\text{TK}}$  given in (17)</td></tr><tr><td> $M^{\star} = [M_s^{\star}]_{s \in [h]}$ </td><td>The optimal filter parameter of  $\hat{x}_t^{\text{TK}}$  given in (12)</td></tr><tr><td> $\kappa_A, \gamma_A$ </td><td>Parameters pertaining to matrix A described in Assumption 3.1</td></tr><tr><td> $\kappa_F, \gamma_F$ </td><td>Parameters pertaining to the Kalman filter given in (14)</td></tr><tr><td> $\hat{x}_t^{\text{SK}}, \hat{y}_t^{\text{SK}}$ </td><td>Steady-state Kalman filter given in (11) and (16), resp.</td></tr><tr><td> $Y_{t-1:t-h}$ </td><td>Matrix form of past output history given in (22)</td></tr></table>
