# 5.1 A framework of Extended Convex Lifting

The ECL framework [23] studies a class of nonconvex optimization problems using convex tools. The key idea is simple and based on a change of variables. Let $f : \mathrm { R } ^ { n }  \mathrm { R }$ be smooth and nonconvex. Suppose there exists a smooth bijection $y = \phi ( x )$ such that $\bar { g } ( y ) : = f ( \phi ^ { - 1 } ( y ) )$ becomes convex. It is then clear that min $f ( x ) = \operatorname* { m i n } g ( y )$ and every stationary point of f is globally optimal. Here, the mapping $y = \phi ( x )$ acts as direct convexification.

The ECL generalizes this idea to a broader class of constrained nonconvex problems that may not admit direct convexification. Indeed, such problems frequently arise in control, including (10). We first review the definitions and key results of ECL, presenting a simplified version tailored for clarity and relevance to our setting.

For a function $f : \mathcal { D }  \mathrm { R }$ with an open domain $D \subseteq  { \mathrm { R } } ^ { d }$ , we define its strict and non-strict epigraphs by

$$\operatorname{epi} _ {>} (f) := \{(x, \gamma) \in \mathcal {D} \times \mathrm{R} \mid \gamma > f (x) \},\operatorname{epi} _ {\geq} (f) := \{(x, \gamma) \in \mathcal {D} \times \mathrm{R} \mid \gamma \geq f (x) \}.$$

Definition 1 (Extended Convex Lifting [23]) Let $f :$ $\mathcal { D }  \mathrm { R }$ be continuous, where $\mathcal { D } \subseteq \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ is open. We say that a tuple $( \mathcal { L } _ { \mathrm { l f t } } , \mathcal { F } _ { \mathrm { c v x } } , \Phi )$ is an ECL of f if the following hold:

(1) $\mathcal { L } _ { \mathrm { l f t } } \subseteq \mathrm { R } ^ { d } \times \mathrm { R } \times \mathrm { R } ^ { d _ { \xi } }$ is a lifted set with an extra variable $\xi \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d _ { \xi } }$ , such that its canonical projection onto the first d+ 1 coordinates, given by $\pi _ { x , \gamma } ( \mathcal { L } _ { \mathrm { l f t } } ) = \{ ( x , \gamma ) : \exists \xi \in$ $\mathrm { R } ^ { d _ { \xi } }$ s.t. $( x , \gamma , \xi ) \in \mathcal { L } _ { \mathrm { l f t } } \}$ , satisfies

$$\mathrm{epi} _ {>} (f) \subseteq \pi_ {x, \gamma} (\mathcal {L} _ {\mathrm{lft}}) \subseteq \operatorname{clepi} _ {\geq} (f). \tag {23}$$
