where $v _ { i }$ is the ith column vector of $U _ { 2 }$ . This means that $x [ k ]$ is decomposed into an agreement vector and disagreement vectors. Hence, consensus is achieved if and only if $A - c \lambda _ { i } ( L ) B F$ is Schur stable for all $i = 2 , \ldots , N$ [4]. Moreover, if consensus is achieved, all agents asymptotically follow the same trajectory [16]:

$$x _ {i} [ k ] - \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {N} A ^ {k} x _ {j} [ 0 ] \rightarrow 0, \quad \forall i \in \{1, \dots , N \}.$$

Let $Q _ { \ell } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ be a positive semidefinite matrix and $( A , Q _ { \ell } ^ { 1 / 2 } )$ be detectable. Since $( A , B )$ is stabilizable, there exists a matrix $P \succ 0$ which is a solution to the following Riccati equation.

$$P = Q _ {\ell} + A ^ {\top} P A - A ^ {\top} P B (R + B ^ {\top} P B) ^ {- 1} B ^ {\top} P A. \tag {12}$$

We design the feedback gain F as

$$F = \left(R + B ^ {\top} P B\right) ^ {- 1} B ^ {\top} P A. \tag {13}$$

Moreover, we define

$$\theta := \left(\frac {\lambda_ {\min} (R)}{\lambda_ {\max} (R + B ^ {\top} P B)}\right) ^ {1 / 2}.$$

Then, we obtain a sufficient condition on c to guarantee consensus of the multi-agent system (1) [6].

Lemma 1: Suppose that (A, B) is stabilizable and $( A , Q _ { \ell } ^ { 1 / 2 } )$ is detectable. Assume that the undirected graph $\mathcal { G }$ is connected. If $c > 0$ is chosen so that

$$\frac {1}{(1 + \theta) \lambda_ {2} (L)} < c < \frac {1}{(1 - \theta) \lambda_ {N} (L)}, \tag {14}$$

the multi-agent system (1) reaches consensus under the distributed controller (3).

Under the above condition, the LQ cost (2) is given by

$$J _ {\text { all }} (x [ 0 ]) = \sum_ {i = 2} ^ {N} \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {\infty} \tilde {x} _ {i} ^ {\top} [ k ] W _ {i} \tilde {x} _ {i} [ k ],$$

where $W _ { i } \ : = \ \lambda _ { i } ( L ) Q + c ^ { 2 } \lambda _ { i } ^ { 2 } ( L ) F ^ { \top } R F$ . Therefore, the corresponding LQ cost admits the following explicit form.

Corollary 1: Suppose that F is given by (13) and c is designed so as to satisfy (14). Then, the resulting LQ cost (2) is

$$J _ {\mathrm{all}} (x [ 0 ]) = \sum_ {i = 2} ^ {N} \tilde {x} _ {i} ^ {\top} [ 0 ] P _ {i} \tilde {x} _ {i} [ 0 ], \tag {15}$$

where $P _ { i } , i = 2 , \ldots , N$ is the solution to

$$P _ {i} = \left(A - c \lambda_ {i} (L) B F\right) ^ {\top} P _ {i} \left(A - c \lambda_ {i} (L) B F\right) + W _ {i}. \tag {16}$$

Proof: Under the distributed controller (3), we have $u [ k ] = - ( c L \otimes F ) x [ k ]$ . Hence, $J _ { \mathrm { a l l } } ( x [ 0 ] )$ ) can be transformed into
