# A. IQC preliminaries

Static and dynamic IQCs will be used to characterize the input-output behavior of the uncertainties and nonlinearities considered in this paper. Therefore, this section briefly reviews several preliminary results on IQCs.

Definition 1: [32] Let $\Pi \ \in \ \mathbb { R L } _ { \infty } ^ { ( m _ { 1 } + m _ { 2 } ) \times ( m _ { 1 } + m _ { 2 } ) }$ ∞ be a proper and rational function, called a multiplier, such that $\Pi =$ $\Psi ^ { \sim } W \Psi$ wials $W \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } \times n _ { z } }$ $\Psi \in \mathbb { R H } _ { \infty } ^ { n _ { z } \times ( m _ { 1 } + m _ { 2 } ) }$ . Thendefined $v \in L _ { 2 e + } ^ { m _ { 1 } }$ $w \in L _ { 2 e + } ^ { m _ { 2 } }$ by the multiplier Π, and $( \Psi , W )$ is a hard IQC factorization of Π if for any bounded, causal operator S satisfying the IQC defined by Π, the following inequality holds:

$$\int_ {0} ^ {T} z ^ {\mathrm{T}} (t) W z (t) d t \geq 0 \tag {1}$$

where $z \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { z } }$ z denotes the filtered output of Ψ driven by inputs $( v , w )$ with zero initial conditions, i.e., $z = \Psi \left[ \begin{array} { l } { v } \\ { w } \end{array} \right]$ $w = S ( v )$ , and all $T \geq 0$ .

To synthesize robust controller within IQC framework, the lemma of dissipation inequality is provided below.

Lemma 1: [32] Consider a linear system $G \in \mathbb { R H } _ { \infty } ^ { n _ { y } \times n _ { u } }$ and a bounded causal operator $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { q } \times n _ { q } }$ . Assume that:

1) the interconnection of G and $\Delta$ is well-posed.   
$2 ) \ \Delta$ satisfies the IQC defined by Π and (Ψ, W ) is a hard factorization of Π.   
3) there exists $P \geq 0$ and a scalar $\gamma > 0$ such that $V ( x ) =$ $x ^ { \mathrm { T } } P x$ satisfies

$$z ^ {\mathrm{T}} W z + \dot {V} < \gamma d ^ {\mathrm{T}} d - \frac {1}{\gamma} e ^ {\mathrm{T}} e \tag {2}$$

for all nontrivial $( x , d , e ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { x } + n _ { \psi } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { d } } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { e } }$ .

Then, the feedback interconnection of G and ∆ is stable.

Note that a hard IQC factorization, together with the following J -spectral factorization result, is essential for applying the dissipation theorem. In addition to J-spectral factorizations, a multiplier Π may admit other factorizations; see [45]– [47] for further discussions. Thus, the hard property is not intrinsic to the multiplier itself, but depends on the particular factorization $( \Psi , W )$ . In [29], a rich collection of IQCs is presented for characterizing various classes of uncertainties and nonlinearities.
