# Grid-following and Grid-forming Switching Control for Grid-connected Inverters Considering Small-signal Security Region

Qiping Lai, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Yi Shen, Graduate Student Member, IEEE and Chen Shen, Senior Member, IEEE

Abstract—In high-penetration renewable power systems with complex and highly variable operating scenarios, grid-connected inverters (GCIs) may transition between different control modes to adapt to diverse grid conditions. Among these, the switching between grid-following (GFL) and grid-forming (GFM) control modes is particularly critical. Nevertheless, safe and robust GFL-GFM switching control strategies for GCIs remain largely unexplored. To overcome this challenge, this paper establishes a full-order small-signal state-space model for the GFL-GFM switched system, precisely reflecting all internal circuit and control dynamics. Subsequently, the small-signal security region (SSSR) of the switched system is defined and characterized, followed by an in-depth investigation into the multi-parameter impacts on the SSSRs and internal stability margin distributions (ISMDs). Furthermore, a novel comprehensive stability index (CSI) is proposed by integrating the stability margin, parameter sensitivity, and boundary distance. Based on this CSI, a multi-objective adaptive GFL-GFM switching control strategy is designed to guarantee the dynamic security and robustness of the system. Finally, the proposed SSSR analysis method for the GFL-GFM switched system and the designed CSI-based switching control mechanism are validated through electromagnetic transient (EMT) simulations.

Index Terms—Comprehensive stability index, grid-connected inverters, grid-following and grid-forming, multi-objective, multiparameter, small-signal security region, switching control.
