$$K = - R _ {2} ^ {- 1} B ^ {\mathsf {T}} \Gamma \left(I + \beta^ {- 2} \alpha^ {2} X \Gamma\right) ^ {- 1}, \tag {20a}A _ {K} X + X A _ {K} ^ {\top} + \beta^ {- 2} X S _ {K} X + W = 0, \tag {20b}\tilde {A} _ {K} ^ {\mathsf {T}} \Gamma + \Gamma \tilde {A} _ {K} + Q _ {2} + K ^ {\mathsf {T}} R _ {2} K = 0, \tag {20c}$$

where $\tilde { A } _ { K } : = A _ { K } + \beta ^ { - 2 } X S _ { K }$ is further Hurwitz.

Proof: We prove the equivalence in two directions.

⇒. Suppose $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ is globally optimal for (10). Since $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ is open, we must have $\begin{array} { r } { \nabla \tilde { J } _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ( \tilde { K } ) \dot { = } 0 } \end{array}$ . Using the gradient formula (17) and setting $\nabla J _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ( K ) = 0$ yields

$$2 (R _ {2} K + B ^ {\mathsf {T}} \Gamma_ {K} + \beta^ {- 2} R _ {\infty} K X _ {K} \Gamma_ {K}) X _ {K} = 0, \tag {21}$$

where $X _ { K }$ is the unique stabilizing solution to the Riccati equation (8) and $\Gamma _ { K }$ solves the Lyapunov equation (17b). Since $W \succ 0$ , the bounded real lemma ensures that $X _ { K } \succ 0$ . In addition, (17b) implies that $\Gamma _ { K } \succeq 0$ . Thus, the matrix $I + \beta ^ { - 2 } \alpha ^ { 2 } \dot { X } _ { K } \dot { \Gamma } _ { K }$ is invertible. Let $\Gamma : = \Gamma _ { K }$ and $X : = X _ { K }$ . Then using $R _ { \infty } = \alpha ^ { 2 } R _ { 2 }$ , we can rearrange (21) to obtain (20a). It is clear that (8) and (17b) corresponds to (20b) and (20c), respectively. Thus, all three optimality conditions are satisfied.

⇐. Suppose that there exist $X \succ 0$ and $\Gamma \succeq 0$ satisfying (20a) to (20c). From (20b) and the stability of $\ddot { A } _ { K }$ , Lemma 1 implies that $K \in \dot { \mathcal { K } } _ { \beta }$ . Substituting the expression for K in (20a) into the gradient formula (17) confirms that $\nabla J _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ( K ) = \mathrm { \hat { 0 } }$ . We then conclude by Theorem 3 that K is a global minimizer of (10). ✷

Corollary 2 provides necessary and sufficient conditions for a policy $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ to be globally optimal. Similar conditions were derived in [4, Theorem 4.1] via Lagrange multipliers, but were only shown to be necessary.
