# 3.2 Analyticity of the mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ cost function

We now examine some properties of the cost function. It is clear from Lemma 2 that $J _ { \mathrm { m i x } }$ is nonconvex. Our next result shows that it is real analytic (and hence infinitely differentiable) on the feasible set $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ .

Theorem 2 Under Assumption $^ { 1 , }$ the mixed $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ cost function $J _ { \mathrm { m i x } }$ in (9) is real analytic on $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ .

Note that $J _ { \mathrm { m i x } }$ is defined through the stabilizing solution $X _ { K }$ of (8), which admits no closed form. Instead, we use the Implicit Function Theorem [43, Theorem 2.3.5] to show that $X _ { K }$ depends analytically on $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ . Thus, the cost $J _ { \mathrm { m i x } }$ is real analytic. Proof details are provided in Appendix A.4.

Since $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ is open, the optimal value of problem (10) may not be attained but only approached at the boundary $\partial { \cal K } _ { \beta }$ . To capture this limiting behavior, we extend $J _ { \mathrm { m i x } }$ to ∂Kβ. By Corollary 1, any $\bar { K } \in \partial \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ satisfies $\| { \bf T } _ { \infty } ( K ) \| _ { \mathcal { H } _ { \infty } } \stackrel { \cdot } { = }$ $\beta ,$ so Lemma 1 no longer applies and (8) does not admit stabilizing solution. Nonetheless, it is known that (8) still admits a unique minimal solution $X _ { K }$ with eigenvalues of $A _ { K } + \beta ^ { - 2 } X _ { K } \mathsf { \bar { S } } _ { K }$ in the closed left half-plane [39, Corollary 13.13, Lemma 13.17]. We thus define the boundary cost as

$$\tilde {J} _ {\mathrm{mix}} (K) = \operatorname{tr} ((Q _ {2} + K ^ {\mathsf {T}} R _ {2} K) X _ {K}), \quad \forall K \in \partial \mathcal {K} _ {\beta}, \tag {16}$$

where $X _ { K }$ is the minimal solution to (8).

The above extension is continuous: as $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ approaches a boundary point $K _ { 0 } \in \partial { \cal K } _ { \beta }$ , the cost converges to $\tilde { J } _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ( K _ { 0 } )$ .

Lemma 3 Suppose Assumptions 1 and 2 hold. Given any boundary point $\bar { \boldsymbol { K } } _ { 0 } \in \partial \boldsymbol { K } _ { \beta }$ , we have

$$\lim _ {K \to K _ {0}, K \in \mathcal {K} _ {\beta}} J _ {\mathrm{mix}} (K) = \tilde {J} _ {\mathrm{mix}} (K _ {0}).$$
