# I. INTRODUCTION

Swarming behaviour in animals is one of the most fascinating phenomena in nature where each individual animal interacts with their close neighbours to produce large-scale complex behaviour [1]. It has been observed in trilobites dating back about 480 million years and has been perfected and optimised over millions of years of evolution. Today swarming behaviour can be observed in flocks of migratory birds, insects, fish, and quadrupedal mammals. Humans have since a long time tried to understand swarming behviour from nature. Beer [2] questioned whether a group of birds have any distinctive utility or whether they were merely haphazard organizations.

Swarming behaviour offers individual members defensive advantages and more efficient navigation when compared to solitary behaviour [3]. Vine et al [3] found that a circular grouping provided the best predator avoidance strategy against visual predators. Weimerskirch et al [4] found that the heart rates of birds in line formations were 11−15% lower than that of a bird flying alone. Lissaman and Schollegenberger [5] used aerodynamic theory to find that a group of 25 birds (species not mentioned) flying in a V formation would have 71% more range than a single bird. In the work by Papadopoulou et al, GPS trajectories of flocks of flying pigeons attacked by a robotic falcon were analysed [6]. The results demonstrated how during the self-organization process, flock members increase their consensus over which direction to escape and turn collectively as the predator approaches close to the flock. Afreen Islam is with the Center for Space Research, and the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin D04 C1P1, Ireland. Corresponding author: Afreen Islam, (e-mail: afreenislam@gmail.com)

The analysis indicate that coordination among flock members, combined with simple escape rules, reduces the cognitive costs of tracking the predator while flocking.
