The understanding of swarming behaviour in recent times has brought together experts from different scientific fields such as biology, engineering, mathematics and statistics. The work of Dieck et al [7] was among the first to use computational modeling methods to infer flocking behaviour from experimental data. Their work demonstrates the existence of a basic distance dependent attraction/repulsion relationship between members of a flock of pigeons. They showed that such trivial rules are sufficient to explain collective behaviour observed in nature. Emlen [8] suggested that both flocking and structure of a flock were the result of an interplay of attractive and repulsive behavioural forces. Reynolds also suggested that coordinated flocking is the result of extremely simple behavioural rules followed by each bird in the group [9].

Line formations are seen more commonly in large birds that fly in regular lines or queues, such as geese, cormorants or duck, whereas Cluster formations, which have a three dimensional structure like a sphere, are observed in smaller birds such as pigeons, starlings and smaller shorebirds [10], [11].

There have been studies where flocks of pigeons were considered. Nichols [12] proposed that a change in direction of a flock of flying pigeons was related to a change in positional leadership. In the work by Nagy et al, GPS data of a flock of homing pigeons were analysed to understand the hierarchy of individual members of the flock [13]. It was suggested that certain birds have a natural tendency to act as leaders irrespective of navigational context. It was established that in general, individuals at the front of the flock tend to assume leadership roles. Yomosa et al found that an important aspect of collective motion is group decision making [14]. It was found that there is a tendency to maintain longitudinal relative position when the flock turns [14]. During homing flights, flock members are forced to resolve potentially conflicting navigational preferences while flying as a flock [15]. An important finding of the work by Flack et al is that training did not consistently result in an increase in birds’ leadership ranks and that in general, the nature of leader-follower interactions between trained and untrained birds remain unaffected [15].
