$$e _ {i} (t + 2 \tau_ {i}) + \gamma_ {i} e _ {i} (t) + \int_ {0} ^ {2 \tau_ {i}} \alpha_ {i} (\tau) e _ {i} (t + \tau) \mathrm{d} \tau = 0 \tag {25}$$

for the closed-loop system, which involve both lumped and distributed evaluations of the error components. It is shown in [15, Theorem 4.1] that each of the SI subsystems $i = 1 , 2$ in (25) is a Riesz spectral system if $\gamma _ { i } \neq 0$ and $\alpha _ { i } ( \tau )$ is piecewise continuous on the corresponding interval $[ 0 , 2 \tau _ { i } ]$ . If these conditions hold for both subsystems, exponential stability of the closed-loop dynamics (25) and thus convergence to the reference is guaranteed if the roots $s _ { k } \in \mathbb { C } .$ , k ∈ N, of e2τis + γi + R 2τ0 $k \in \mathbb N$ $\begin{array} { r } { \mathrm { e } ^ { 2 \tau _ { i } s } + \gamma _ { i } + \int _ { 0 } ^ { 2 \overline { { \tau } } _ { i } } \alpha _ { i } ( \tau ) \mathrm { e } ^ { \tau s } } \end{array}$ i dτ satisfy $\Re ( s _ { k } ) < 0$ (see [3, Theorem 3.2.8]). As choosing appropriate parameters $\gamma _ { i }$ as well as functions $\alpha _ { i } ( \tau ) , i = 1 , 2 $ is not the focus of this contribution, without loss of generality, we henceforth assume $\alpha _ { i } ( \tau ) ~ = ~ 0$ . In this case, $| \gamma _ { i } | ~ < ~ 1$ guarantees exponential stability and the subsequent expressions are more concise and readable.

For $\alpha _ { i } ( \tau ) = 0$ and |γi| < 1, i = 1, 2, applying

$$v _ {i} (t) = y _ {i, \mathrm{r}} (t + 2 \tau_ {i}) - \gamma_ {i} (\eta_ {i} (0, t) - y _ {i, \mathrm{r}} (t)) \tag {26}$$

to (23) results in the decoupled error dynamics (25). To obtain the corresponding control law for the input u¯(t), the feedback (26) is inserted into the input transformation (22). This substitution, however, also requires

$$
\begin{array}{l} v _ {1} (t + \tau) = y _ {1, \mathrm{r}} (t + 2 \tau_ {1} + \tau) - \gamma_ {1} (\eta_ {1} (0, t + \tau) \\ \left. - y _ {1, \mathrm{r}} (t + \tau)\right) \tag {27} \\ \end{array}
$$

for $\tau \in \left[ 0 , \Delta \tau + \tau _ { 2 } \right]$ . Predictions $y _ { 1 , \mathrm { r } } ( t + \sigma ) , \sigma > 0 .$ , of the reference trajectory are readily available, regardless of the prediction amplitude (cf. (21)). The term $\eta _ { 1 } ( 0 , t + \tau )$ is replaced using

$$
\eta_ {1} (0, t + \tau) = \left\{ \begin{array}{c c} \eta_ {1} (\tau , t), & \tau \in [ 0, 2 \tau_ {1} ] \\ - \gamma_ {1} \eta_ {1} (0, t + \tau - 2 \tau_ {1}) & \\ + f (y _ {1, r} (\cdot)), & \tau > 2 \tau_ {1}, \end{array} \right. \tag {28}
$$
