# A. Mathematical Model of the Electrical Circuits

As illustrated in Fig. 1, various grid-connected power electronic devices, such as wind turbines, photovoltaic systems, energy storage units, and static var generators, share a fundamental alternating current (AC) electrical topology. Their direct current (DC) power is interfaced with the AC grid via voltage source inverters (VSIs). The AC output is delivered to the main grid through the filter and line connection impedance. The mathematical model describing the inverter’s AC-side filter dynamics in the $d q$ rotating reference frame can be expressed as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} i _ {L d}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{L _ {f}} \left(e _ {d} - v _ {d} + \omega L _ {f} i _ {L q} - R _ {f} i _ {L d}\right) \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} i _ {L q}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{L _ {f}} \left(e _ {q} - v _ {q} - \omega L _ {f} i _ {L d} - R _ {f} i _ {L q}\right) \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} v _ {d}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{C _ {f}} \left(i _ {L d} - i _ {d} + \omega C _ {f} v _ {q}\right) \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} v _ {q}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{C _ {f}} \left(i _ {L q} - i _ {q} - \omega C _ {f} v _ {d}\right) \end{array} \right. \tag {1}
$$

where $\omega$ is the inverter’s electrical angular frequency; $R _ { f } ,$ $L _ { f } .$ , and $C _ { f }$ denote the filter resistance, inductance, and capacitance, respectively; $e _ { d }$ and $e _ { q }$ represent the d- and q-axis components of the inverter’s AC-side voltage, respectively; $i _ { L d }$ and $i _ { L q }$ are the d- and $q \mathrm { . }$ -axis components of the inverter’s AC-side current, respectively; $v _ { d }$ and $v _ { q }$ indicate the d- and q-axis components of the grid connection point (GCP) voltage, respectively; $i _ { d }$ and $i _ { q }$ correspond to the d- and q-axis components of the grid-side injected current, respectively.

The mathematical model of the grid connection impedance in the $d q$ rotating reference frame is formulated as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} v _ {g d} = v _ {g} \cos \delta , \quad v _ {g q} = - v _ {g} \sin \delta \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} i _ {d}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{L _ {g}} \left(v _ {d} - v _ {g d} + \omega L _ {g} i _ {q} - R _ {g} i _ {d}\right) \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} i _ {q}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \frac {1}{L _ {g}} \left(v _ {q} - v _ {g q} - \omega L _ {g} i _ {d} - R _ {g} i _ {q}\right) \end{array} \right. \tag {2}
$$

where $v _ { g }$ represents the amplitude of the grid voltage vector; δ denotes the phase angle that d-axis leads the grid voltage vector; $v _ { g d }$ and $v _ { g q }$ indicate the $d -$ and q-axis components of the grid voltage, respectively; $R _ { g }$ and $L _ { g }$ are the equivalent line resistance and inductance, respectively.
