# 2.2 Motion equation

With the Hamiltonian, we derive the system’s motion equation. Here, we introduce two important definitions [27, 28].

Definition 1. The input field in the waveguide is written as

$$b _ {\mathrm{in}} (t) = \frac {1}{\sqrt {2 \pi}} \int_ {- \infty} ^ {+ \infty} \mathrm{d} \omega b _ {r} (\omega , 0) e ^ {- \mathrm{i} \omega t}, \tag {5}$$

where $b _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ satisfies $[ b _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t ) , ( b _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t ^ { \prime } ) ) ^ { \dagger } ] ~ = ~ \delta ( t - t ^ { \prime } )$ with $\delta ( t - \dot { t ^ { \prime } } )$ being Dirac delta function. We have let $b _ { r } ( \omega , 0 ) = b _ { r } ( \omega )$ , where the second variable indicates the initial time $t _ { 0 } = 0$ .

This definition introduces the input field as a continuous superposition of right-propagating frequency modes evaluated at the entrance of the waveguide. It follows naturally from the Fourier representation of traveling-wave bosonic fields and provides a convenient time-domain description for formulating input–output relations which will be given in the next subsection. The field $b _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ is typically assumed to be in a vacuum or Gaussian state, which ensures the field is quantum white noise.

We then have the following result.

Theorem 1. Given total Hamiltonian (1), the dynamical equation for the annihilation operator of the giant cavity system is written as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {a} (t) = - \mathrm{i} \omega_ {c} a (t) - \frac {\gamma}{2} [ a (t) + a (t - T) ] \\ - \mathrm{i} \sqrt {\frac {\gamma}{2}} \left[ b _ {\text { in }} (t) + b _ {\text { in }} (t - T) \right], \tag {6} \\ \end{array}
$$

with $\gamma = 4 \pi V _ { q } ^ { 2 } / v _ { g }$ and $T = \tau _ { 2 } = ( x _ { 2 } - x _ { 1 } ) / v _ { g } = L / v _ { g }$

Proof. In the Heisenberg picture, the cavity mode and field mode evolve as

$$\dot {a} (t) = - \mathrm{i} \omega_ {c} a (t) - \mathrm{i} \sum_ {n = 1} ^ {2} \frac {V _ {q}}{\sqrt {v _ {g}}} \int_ {- \infty} ^ {\infty} \mathrm{d} \omega b _ {r} (\omega) e ^ {\mathrm{i} \omega \tau_ {n}}, \tag {7}\dot {b} _ {r} (\omega , t) = - \mathrm{i} \omega b _ {r} (\omega , t) - \mathrm{i} \sum_ {n = 1} ^ {2} \frac {V _ {q}}{\sqrt {v _ {g}}} e ^ {- \mathrm{i} \omega \tau_ {n}} a (t), \tag {8}$$

respectively. Due to linearity, Eq. (8) can be solved as
