In contrast to Markovian quantum systems, the evolution of a non-Markovian quantum system interacting with an environment exhibiting memory effects depends on not only the current states but also its past states, thereby preventing the direct application of established quantum filtering techniques. To filter this kind of systems, a widely adopted approach is based on augmented modeling, where ancillary systems are introduced to represent the internal modes of a non-Markovian environment so as to represent the original non-Markovian quantum system in an augmented Hilbert space [13,14]. Concretely, the ancillary system can be determined by a spectral decomposition theorem such that the ancillary together with principal systems can be described by a time-invariant equation. Although this approach can deal with the non-Markovian environment with a rational spectrum, it would result in a high-dimensional augmented systems, thereby incurring a substantial computational burden. Besides non-Markovian dynamics induced by the environment, the evolution of a controlled quantum system would be non-Markovian resulting from time-delays in a feedback loop [17,18]. However, in this case, the filter can be a standard Markovian quantum filter since the design of the filter is irrelevant to the delay in the feedback loop according to the separation principle in control theory. Recently, a new class of non-Markovian dynamics can be constructed in a waveguide quantum electrodynamics dynamical (waveguide QED) systems, where a quantum system can interact with the field in a waveguide by multiple times via distant capacitors or inter-digital transducers (IDT) [19, 20]. Since bounded states or non-exponential decays has been observed in this kind of systems which would be useful in quantum information processing [21, 22], it is important to filter out the state of the system for further applications. However, since the variation of the system state depends on its time-delayed state, standard quantum filter theory would not be applicable. In addition, when using the augmented system approach, time-delayed terms would result in a high-dimensional augmented system which would be computational costing. Hence, the problem to design an effective quantum filter for such system would be open and valuable.
