# 5.2 Proof of Theorem 3 via ECL construction

In this section, we construct an ECL for problem (10), and show that all feasible policies in $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ are non-degenerate under Assumptions 1 and 2. Theorem 3 then follows directly from Theorem 6. The ECL construction details are involved, which rely on the (non)-strict bounded real lemma.

We start by characterizing the non-strict epigraph of the extended cost $\tilde { J } _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ,$ which is central to the ECL construction. Working with the extended cost simplifies the treatment of boundary cases and also facilitates subsequent proofs.

Lemma 7 Consider the extended cost $\tilde { J } _ { \mathrm { m i x } } : \mathrm { c l } ( { \cal K } _ { \beta } )  \mathrm { R }$ defined in (16). Under Assumptions 1 and 2, a pair $( K , \gamma ) \in$ $\mathrm { e p i } _ { \geq } ( \tilde { J } _ { \mathrm { m i x } } )$ if and only if there exists some $X \succ 0$ such that

$$\gamma \geq \operatorname{tr} (Q _ {2} X) + \operatorname{tr} (R _ {2} K X K ^ {\mathsf {T}}),A _ {K} X + X A _ {K} ^ {\mathsf {T}} + W + \beta^ {- 2} X S _ {K} X \preceq 0.$$

The proof of Lemma 7 is deferred to Appendix C.1. We now construct an ECL for (10) in three steps.

Step 1: Lifted set. Motivated by Lemma 7, we introduce a lifted set ${ \mathcal { L } } _ { \mathrm { l f t } }$ with an extra variable X

$$
\mathcal {L} _ {\mathrm{lft}} := \left\{(K, \gamma , X) \left| \begin{array}{l} K \in \mathrm{R} ^ {m \times n}, \gamma \in \mathrm{R}, X \succ 0, \\ \gamma \geq \operatorname{tr} (Q _ {2} X) + \operatorname{tr} (R _ {2} K X K ^ {\top}), \\ A _ {K} X + X A _ {K} ^ {\top} + \beta^ {- 2} X S _ {K} X + W \preceq 0 \end{array} \right. \right\}. \tag {25a}
$$

Step 2: Convex set. We define a convex set

$$
\mathcal {F} _ {\mathrm{cvx}} := \left\{(\gamma , X, Y) \left| \begin{array}{c} \gamma \in \mathrm{R}, X \succ 0, Y \in \mathrm{R} ^ {m \times n}, \mathrm{F} _ {\mathrm{cvx}} \preceq 0, \\ \gamma \geq \operatorname{tr} (Q _ {2} X) + \operatorname{tr} (R _ {2} Y X ^ {- 1} Y ^ {\top}) \end{array} \right. \right\}, \tag {25b}
$$

where $\operatorname { F } _ { \operatorname { c v x } }$ is defined in (15).

Step 3: Diffeomorphism. Using the classical change of variables $Y = K X$ , we define the mapping

$$\Phi (K, \gamma , X) := (\gamma , X, K X), \quad \forall (K, \gamma , X) \in \mathcal {L} _ {\mathrm{lft}}. \tag {25c}$$

Lemma 7 immediately yields the following key result, which validates the ECL construction.

Corollary 4 Under Assumptions 1 and 2, we have
