# 2 Control scheme

The motor control scheme is based on ideas of IFOC and FSMPC. This is illustrated in Fig. 1, where a multi phase induction motor of 5 phases is considered.

The voltage source inverter (VSI) can produce $2 ^ { 5 }$ possible voltages that supply the 5 motor phases. This corresponds to the states of its discrete switches. If $u _ { i }$ denotes the state of the switch of the $i - t h$ leg then the stator phase voltages are $v _ { i }$ as $V _ { p h } = T U$ , where $V _ { p h } = ( v _ { 1 } , . . . , v _ { 5 } ) , U = ( u _ { 1 } , . . . , u _ { 5 } )$ and $T$ is given by

$$
T = \frac {V _ {D C}}{5} \left( \begin{array}{c c c c c} 4 & - 1 & - 1 & - 1 & - 1 \\ - 1 & 4 & - 1 & - 1 & - 1 \\ - 1 & - 1 & 4 & - 1 & - 1 \\ - 1 & - 1 & - 1 & 4 & - 1 \\ - 1 & - 1 & - 1 & - 1 & 4 \end{array} \right), \tag {1}
$$

where $V _ { D C }$ is the DC-link voltage. Thse voltages can be projected to the torque producing plane $\left( \alpha - \beta \right)$ and to the harmon ic plane $( x - y )$ using the transformation matrix

$$
M = \frac {2}{5} \left( \begin{array}{c c c c c} 1 & \gamma_ {1} ^ {c} & \gamma_ {2} ^ {c} & \gamma_ {3} ^ {c} & \gamma_ {4} ^ {c} \\ 0 & \gamma_ {1} ^ {s} & \gamma_ {2} ^ {s} & \gamma_ {3} ^ {s} & \gamma_ {4} ^ {s} \\ 1 & \gamma_ {2} ^ {c} & \gamma_ {4} ^ {c} & c _ {\vartheta} & \gamma_ {3} ^ {c} \\ 0 & \gamma_ {2} ^ {s} & \gamma_ {4} ^ {s} & \gamma_ {1} ^ {s} & \gamma_ {3} ^ {s} \\ 1 / 2 & 1 / 2 & 1 / 2 & 1 / 2 & 1 / 2 \end{array} \right), \tag {2}
$$

where $\gamma _ { h } ^ { c } = \cos h \vartheta , \gamma _ { h } ^ { s } = \sin h \vartheta$ , and $\vartheta = 2 \pi / 5 ~ \mathrm { ( r a d ) }$ . Quantities in $\alpha - \beta - x - y$ are obtained as $V _ { \alpha \beta x y } = M V _ { p h }$ . For the realization of the Indirect Field Oriented Control (IFOC) scheme, quantities in the rotating $d - q$ reference frame are also needed. The d component deals with flux production and the $q$ component with torque. The Park rotation matrix is then used to convert the $\alpha - \beta$ axes into $d - q$ , so $V _ { d - q } = D V _ { \alpha \beta x y }$ , with

$$
D = \left( \begin{array}{c c c} \cos \sigma & \sin \sigma \\ - \sin \sigma & \cos \sigma \end{array} \right), \tag {3}
$$

where the flux position $\sigma$ is obtained as $\sigma = \int \omega _ { e } d t$ .

The $d - q$ stator currents reference are $i _ { d q } ^ { * } = ( i _ { d } ^ { * } , i _ { q } ^ { * } )$ . The d component is fixed to produce a constant flux, the $q$ component produces torque to drive the mechanical speed control error to zero and is computed as

$$i _ {q} ^ {*} (t) = k _ {p} \cdot e _ {\omega} (t) + k _ {i} \int_ {0} ^ {t} e _ {\omega} (\tau) d \tau \tag {4}$$
