# 6.2 Non-Gaussian Noise and Beyond

Our current regrets in Theorems 4.1 and 5.2 hold when the noise sequences $\{ w _ { t } \} _ { t \ge 0 }$ and $\{ v _ { t } \} _ { t \geq 0 }$ are i.i.d. Gaussian. To achieve the regret results in Theorems 4.1 and 5.2, we leverage two properties of the Gaussian noise. First, we prove in Lemma 3.1 that $\lVert \boldsymbol { w } _ { t } \rVert$ and $\| v _ { t } \|$ are bounded by some log T -factor (with high probability), which further leads to the log T -factor bound on $\| x _ { t } \|$ for all $t \in \{ 0 , \ldots , T - 1 \}$ . Second, leveraging the lower bound on the noise covariance $\lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } ( V ) \geq \alpha _ { 0 } > 0$ , we show, e.g., in Lemma 4.1 that the output estimation error $f _ { t } ( \cdot )$ is conditionally strongly-convex. Hence, if other types of noise distributions are considered, as long as the stochastic noise $\{ w _ { t } \} _ { t \ge 0 }$ and $\{ v _ { t } \} _ { t \ge 0 }$ posses the above two properties (examples include sub-Gaussian noise or bounded stochastic noise [63]), the regret results in Theorems 4.1 and 5.2 continue to hold (with a possibly inflation in the power of the log T -factor).

Besides stochastic noise, one may also consider potentially adversarially generated non-stochastic noise $\{ w _ { t } \} _ { t \ge 0 }$ and $\{ v _ { t } \} _ { t \geq 0 }$ with bounded norm [64, 65] (e.g., a constant or a log T upper bound). Since the non-stochastic noise does not have a covariance matrix, we lose the aforementioned conditional strong convexity of the estimation error cost functions. However, the cost functions in both the output and state estimation problems are always convex (as they are quadratic), one√ √ can use this convexity to show $\tilde { \mathcal { O } } ( \sqrt { T } )$ and $\tilde { \mathcal { O } } ( \sqrt { \tau T } )$ regret for Algorithms 1 and 2, when applied to solving learning Kalman filtering for output and state estimation, respectively. Note that the regret performance degradation is typical when moving from stochastic noise with positive definite covariance to non-stochastic noise [12, 64]. We leave a formal treatment of non-stochastic noise as future work.

Finally, we remark that when considering non-Gaussian or non-stochastic noise, the Kalman filter in hindsight loses its global optimality in terms of minimizing the MSEE but is optimal within the class of linear state estimators [4, Chapter 5]. In addition, the methods based on least squares proposed in [10,12,14] cannot directly handle non-stochastic noise, as the analysis there relies on more subtle properties inherited from the stochastic noise. Existing works that can handle non-stochastic noise only focus on the problem of learning output estimation [11, 16].
