# B. Existing result on finite-time MPC

Consider the discrete-time linear plant

$$x (k + 1) = A x (k) + b u (k), \tag {3}$$

subject to

$$u \in \mathcal {U}, x \in \mathcal {X}, \tag {4}$$

where $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $u \in \mathbb { R }$ are the state and the control input. Here, n represents the dimension of the overall system, and k represents the discrete time instant. The pair $( A , b )$ is assumed to be fully controllable. The sets $\boldsymbol { \mathcal U }$ and $\mathcal { X }$ are convex constraints that include the origin.

In [23], it was proposed and proved that finite-time stabilization can be guaranteed by the following MPC with 1) penalizing only the terminal cost, and 2) setting the control horizon equals to the system dimension:

$$[ U ^ {*} (k), X ^ {*} (k) ] = \arg \min _ {U (k), X (k)} \| x (n | k) \| _ {P} ^ {2}, \tag {5}$$

subject to

$$x (0 | k) = x (k), \tag {6}x (i + 1 | k) = A x (i | k) + b u (i | k), i = 0, \dots , n - 1, \tag {7}u (i | k) \in \mathcal {U}, x (i + 1 | k) \in \mathcal {X}, i = 0, \dots , n - 1, \tag {8}x (n | k) \in \mathcal {X} _ {f}, \tag {9}$$

where the weighting matrix P in (5) is solved from Lyapunov equation

$$(A - b K) ^ {T} P (A - b K) - P = - Q - K ^ {T} R K, \tag {10}$$

where Q and R are given positive matrices; the feedback gain K is chosen such that $| \mathrm { e i g } ( A - b K ) | < 1$ . The finite-time MPC is executed on the linear plant (3) via receding horizon scheme

$$u (k) = [ 1, 0, \dots , 0 ] _ {1 \times n} U ^ {*} (k),$$

where $U ^ { * } ( k )$ is solved from constrained optimization (5).

Moreover, if constraints (4) are not considered, the solution to the unconstrained finite-time MPC is

$$u (k) = - K _ {d b} x (k),$$

satisfying that all eigenvalues of $\left( A - b K _ { d b } \right)$ are zero.

The above finite-time MPC does not rely on switching inside one-step region [20] or terminal equality constraint [19]. However, its control horizon is short, sometimes leading to limited initial feasibility region.

Remark 1: The terminal weighting matrix P in (10) is used to guarantee asymptotic stability. In [23], the finitetime stability is based on asymptotic stability, with setting the control horizon equal to the system dimension.

Remark 2: In the unconstrained case, the (unique) solution to (5) is $x ( n | k ) = 0 .$ , if N = n is assigned. Comparatively, if stage costs (other than the terminal cost in (5)) are also penalized, then $x ( n | k ) = 0$ is not unique, and finite-time convergence cannot be ensured.
