# 4.1 Any stationary point is globally optimal

Since $\displaystyle { { \cal { K } } _ { \beta } }$ is open, any local minimizer of $J _ { \mathrm { m i x } }$ must lie in its interior and thus must be a stationary point. Despite nonconvexity, we establish a key result that every stationary point (when it exists) of (10) is globally optimal.

Theorem 3 Suppose Assumptions 1 and 2 hold. For any policy $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ , if K is a stationary point, $i . e . , \nabla J _ { \operatorname* { m i x } } ( K ) \stackrel { \cdot } { = }$ 0, then K is a global minimizer of (10).

Owing to the absence of spurious stationary points, the mixed $\bar { \mathcal { H } } _ { 2 } / \mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ design (10) exhibits hidden convexity: every local minimum is globally optimal. This parallels recent results on benign nonconvexity in state-feedback problems such as LQR [13–15] and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control [21, 23, 46].

Theorem 3 is most closely related to [24, Proposition A.5], which establishes the global optimality of all stationary points in the single-channel case. Its proof relies on a gametheoretic formulation, whose extension to the two-channel case (10) remains unclear. In contrast, our approach builds on convex reformulations via the recently developed ECL framework [23], which provides greater transparency and directly deals with the general two-channel problem. In this sense, [24, Proposition A.5] appears as a special case of Theorem 3. Our proof involves an explicit ECL construction, which requires careful analysis of (non)strict Riccati inequalities. We provide the details in Section 5.

Building on Lemma 4 and Theorem 3, we further derive stationarity conditions that characterize global optima of problem (10). To simplify the expression, we assume $R _ { \infty } =$ ${ \bf \dot { \alpha } } _ { } ^ { 2 } R _ { 2 }$ with $\dot { \alpha } \geq 0$ as a design parameter [4].

Corollary 2 Suppose Assumptions 1 and 2 hold, and assume $\bar { R _ { \infty } } \stackrel { } { = } \alpha ^ { 2 } \bar { R _ { 2 } } \stackrel { . } { }$ for some $\alpha \geq 0$ . Then a policy $K \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ is global optimal for (10) if and only if there exist matrices $\Gamma \succeq 0$ and $X \succ 0$ satisfying the following conditions:
