• Unified online optimization framework. We propose a unified online optimization framework that encompasses both output and state estimation setups. Since the Kalman filter in hindsight produces the estimate of the output or state of the system at the current time step as a linear combination of the past outputs, we focus on optimizing over the set of linear filters and show that the estimation error cost is conditionally strongly-convex in the filter parameter. Such strong convexity allows us to show that an online convex optimization algorithm achieves a log T -regret with respect to the horizon length T for the output estimation problem in the first place, which matches those achieved in [12–15] using least squares methods. In addition, our proposed online optimization algorithmic framework is conceptually simpler than the least squares methods used, further allowing us to achieve the regret with minimal requirements on prior knowledge of the system model and noise statistics. Nonetheless, the most important advantage of our algorithmic framework is its ability to tackle the more challenging state estimation problem.

• Fundamental limitation of learning state estimation. Before delving into providing regret upper bounds for learning Kalman filtering for state estimation, we first characterize a fundamental performance limitation of any online learning algorithm applied to the state estimation problem. We demonstrate that for any online learning algorithm that is only given access to the system output history, the state estimates returned by the algorithm must incur a regret that scales at least linearly in the horizon length T , which is no better than, e.g., a naive algorithm that simply returns a bounded state estimate at each time step. Such a regret lower bound result indicates that learning state estimation is provably more difficult than learning output estimation.
