# B. Fully distributed consensus control for stochastic MASs with the undirected topology

The parameter $\Sigma _ { i } ( t )$ in the protocol (2) is introduced to account for asymmetric interactions in the network; however, since undirected graphs exhibit symmetric adjacency relations by definition, $\Sigma _ { i } ( t )$ becomes superfluous and can be safely omitted in such case. Assume that the undirected graph $\bar { \mathcal { G } }$ is connected. Therefore, the eigenvalues of L for the undirected graph $\bar { \mathcal { G } }$ are real and nonnegative, denoted by $\lambda _ { 1 } ( \mathcal { L } ) = 0$ and $0 < \lambda _ { 2 } ( \mathcal { L } ) \leq . . . \leq \lambda _ { N } ( \mathcal { L } )$ .

Then, we have the following theorem for the case of undirected topology.

Theorem IV.3. Suppose the undirected graph $\bar { \mathcal { G } }$ is connected. The m.s. and a.s. consensus of (1) can be solved by the protocol (2) with $\Sigma _ { i } ( t ) \ : = \ : 1 , \ : \gamma \ : = \ : 0 , \ : \mathcal { K } \ : = \ : - B ^ { T } P _ { \ : }$ , and $\Gamma = P B B ^ { T } P$ , where P is the solution to the SARE (9).

Proof. Let $\Sigma _ { i } ( t ) = 1$ . As mentioned in Theorem IV.1, the closed-loop MASs can be written as follows

$$
\begin{array}{l} d \vartheta (t) = \left(I _ {N} \otimes A + \tilde {C} (t) \mathcal {L} \otimes B \mathcal {K}\right) \vartheta (t) d t \tag {26} \\ + (I _ {N} \otimes C) \vartheta (t) d w (t). \\ \end{array}
$$

Then, we choose Lyapunov function

$$V _ {2} (\vartheta (t), t) = \vartheta^ {T} (\mathcal {L} \otimes P) \vartheta + \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} (c _ {i} (t) - \psi_ {i}) ^ {2}, \tag {27}$$

where $P > 0$ and $\psi _ { i } > 0$ . Applying the functional Itˆo formula to (27), we have

$$d V _ {2} (\vartheta (t), t) = \mathfrak {L} V _ {2} (\vartheta (t), t) d t + 2 \vartheta^ {T} (t) (\mathcal {L} \otimes P C) \vartheta (t) d w (t),$$

where $\mathfrak { L } V _ { 2 } ( \vartheta ( t ) , t )$ is defined as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathfrak {L} V _ {2} (\vartheta (t), t) = \vartheta^ {T} (t) [ \mathcal {L} \otimes (A ^ {T} P + P A + C ^ {T} P C) ] \vartheta (t) \\ + 2 \vartheta^ {T} (t) [ \mathcal {L} \tilde {C} (t) \mathcal {L} \otimes P B \mathcal {K} ] \vartheta (t) + (c _ {i} (t) - \psi_ {i}) \dot {c} _ {i} (t). \\ \end{array}
$$

Let $\boldsymbol { \mathcal { K } } = - B ^ { T } \boldsymbol { P }$ and $\Gamma = P B B ^ { T } P$ . Then, we can obtain
