# 1 Introduction

Direct digital predictive control of the discrete states of the power converter has been recently proposed for many applications. The method has been termed Finite State Model Predictive Control (FSMPC) [1]. The benefits of FSMPC lie mainly in the added flexibility that is used to cope with different objectives. Also, an increase in bandwidth in the stator current control has been reported [2] due to the elimination of the modulation block [3].

Previous papers of FSMPC for multi-phase systems have recognized the problem of CF tuning with regard to stator current control [4]. Among the different proposals, one can find adaptive methods and table-based ones. Regarding adaptive methods, the idea of model reference has been used in [5, 6]. Similarly, in [7] a Lyapunov-based design is proposed.

Neural Networks (NN) have been extensively used for control systems [8, 9]. Their capacity for interpolation can be exploited to provide the control parameters for each operating regime [10]. The NN approach is often used with a previous off-line learning phase [11, 12]. The method has been applied to the speed loop. For instance, in [13], the speed PI is replaced by a fuzzy or neural system. Similar ideas have been used in [14] for PID tuning and in [15], where a Wavelet-based adaptive method is used.

In the case of electrical rotating machines, the speed and current loops should be considered. This can be seen in [16], where an adaptive system replaces the speed controller. This allows for a nonlinear control adjusted to each operating point. The control of all motor variables is proposed in [17, 18, 19]. In this case, NN have been used to obtain acurate models to be used in FSMPC [20]. Another approach is to use the NN to reproduce the behavior of a predictive controller [21, 22, 23].

This preprint presents a neural network tuner for the finite state model predictive control of an induction motor. The tuner deals with the parameters of the controllers in the speed loop and in the stator current loop. The results are assessed using a five phase machine in an experimental setup.
