$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} \zeta}{\mathrm{d} t} = v _ {q}, \quad \frac {\mathrm{d} \delta}{\mathrm{d} t} = \omega - \omega_ {0} \\ \omega = K _ {p \text {PLL}} v _ {q} + K _ {i \text {PLL}} \zeta \end{array} \right. \tag {5}
$$

where ζ represents the integral state variable of the PI integrator; $\omega _ { 0 }$ denotes the synchronous electrical angular frequency of the grid; $K _ { p { \mathrm { P L I } } }$ and $K _ { i \mathrm { P L I } }$ are the proportional and integral gains of the PLL, respectively.

The OPL of the GFL inverter adopts constant power control. The deviations between the measured active/reactive powers and their respective setpoints are processed by PI controllers to generate the $d -$ and q-axis current references. Then, the ICL tracks these references to produce the inverter’s AC-side voltage references. Notably, feedforward decoupling terms are integrated into the ICL to eliminate the cross-coupling dynamics of the filter. The mathematical model of this powercurrent dual-loop control scheme is derived as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \frac {\mathrm{d} \gamma_ {d}}{\mathrm{d} t} = P _ {\text { ref }} - P, \quad \frac {\mathrm{d} \gamma_ {q}}{\mathrm{d} t} = Q - Q _ {\text { ref }} \\ i _ {L d \text { ref}} = K _ {p o 1} (P _ {\text { ref }} - P) + K _ {i o 1} \gamma_ {d} \\ i _ {L q \text { ref}} = K _ {p o 1} (Q - Q _ {\text { ref }}) + K _ {i o 1} \gamma_ {q} \\ \frac {\mathrm{d} \xi_ {d}}{\mathrm{d} t} = i _ {L d \text { ref }} - i _ {L d}, \quad \frac {\mathrm{d} \xi_ {q}}{\mathrm{d} t} = i _ {L q \text { ref }} - i _ {L q} \\ e _ {d \text { ref}} = v _ {d} - \omega L _ {f} i _ {L q} + K _ {p i 1} (i _ {L d \text { ref }} - i _ {L d}) + K _ {i i 1} \xi_ {d} \\ e _ {q \text { ref}} = v _ {q} + \omega L _ {f} i _ {L d} + K _ {p i 1} (i _ {L q \text { ref }} - i _ {L q}) + K _ {i i 1} \xi_ {q} \end{array} \right. \tag {6}
$$

where $\gamma _ { d } , \gamma _ { q } , \xi _ { d }$ and $\xi _ { q }$ are all integral state variables; $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ and $Q _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ denote the active and reactive power references, respectively; $i _ { L d \mathrm { r e f } }$ and $i _ { L q \mathrm { r e f } }$ represent the d- and q-axis components of the inverter’s AC-side current references, respectively; $K _ { p o 1 }$ and $K _ { i o 1 }$ indicate the proportional and integral gains of the OPL, respectively; $K _ { p i 1 }$ and $K _ { i i 1 }$ correspond to the proportional and integral gains of the ICL, respectively.
