# FORMULATION OF A FLOCK OF PIGEONS AS A SWARMOPTIMAL CONTROL PROBLEM

In the seminal paper of Nagy et al [13], the leader-follower behaviour has been establised for a flock of homing pigeons. In these flocks of pigeons carrying out free-flights or homing flights, one or a very few pigeons act as leaders and rest of the pigeons follow the leader(s). In the book by Satz [1], it was explained how instead of following the leaders at the forefront, each bird in a swarm follows a bird immediately ahead of themselves. These important concepts will be used for formulating a swarm optimal control problem for a flock of homing pigeons. For free-flight data of homing pigeons from Nagy et al [13], 10 pigeons are considered, and the hierarchy will be considered according to Figure 2b in Nagy et al [13]. Let us consider Fig. 2, to explain the swarm optimal control problem. To understand the swarm behaviour of the pigeon flocks in Fig. 2, we consider that pigeon A at the forefront is the leader of the entire flock. We then consider that pigeons G and M follow pigeon A. Thereafter, it is considered that Pigeons B and D follow pigeon G. Pigeon I follows pigeon M. In the next hierarchy, it is assumed that pigeon H follows pigeon D, while pigeon C follows pigeon H. It is next assumed that pigeons J and L follow pigeon B. The leader-follower pairs in the flock of pigeons considered are also shown in Fig. 3 and Table I. In Fig. 3, each leader-follower pair is shown in a dotted circular contour.

<table><tr><td>Sl No</td><td>Leader</td><td>Follower</td><td>Time Delay</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>A</td><td>M</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>A</td><td>G</td><td>0.6 s</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>G</td><td>B</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>G</td><td>D</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>M</td><td>I</td><td>0.6 s</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>B</td><td>J</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>B</td><td>L</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>D</td><td>H</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>H</td><td>C</td><td>0.2 s</td></tr></table>

TABLE I   
LEADER-FOLLOWER PAIRS FOR THE FLOCK OF PIGEONS

For each follower pigeon, the desired trajectory is the trajectory of the corresponding leader pigeon, delayed in time. For instance, for the leader-follower pigeon pair A-M, it is considered that pigeon M solves an optimal trajectory tracking problem. The desired trajectory of M is the trajectory of A delayed by 0.2 s. This choice is based on Figure 2b of Nagy et al [13], where the delay time of motion between pigeons A and M is indicated as 0.2 s. The optimal trajectory tracking problem for each follower pigeon will now be formulated and for that we require a mathematical model of each follower pigeon.
