# III. PROBLEM FORMULATION

We consider solving a finite-horizon linear–quadratic model predictive control (LQ-MPC) problem in a client–cloud architecture. The objective is to utilize the cloud’s computational resources to synthesize the control input, while ensuring that the client’s sensitive information such as current state or model parameters remains private to the cloud via encryption.

Consider the discrete-time linear time-invariant system

$$x (t + 1) = A x (t) + B u (t), \tag {1}$$

where $\ b { x } ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $u ( t ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ denote the system state and control input at time step $t \in \mathbb { Z } .$ respectively.

At each MPC update step t, the measured state x(t) serves as the initial state of the prediction horizon, denoted by $x _ { 0 } : = x ( t )$ . The controller plans a sequence of control inputs $U : = [ u _ { 0 } ; u _ { 1 } ; \cdot \cdot \cdot ; u _ { N - 1 } ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N m }$ over a prediction horizon of length $N \in \mathbb N$ by solving the following optimization:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \min _ {U} J _ {0} (U; x _ {0}) := x _ {N} ^ {\top} Q _ {f} x _ {N} + \sum_ {k = 0} ^ {N - 1} \left(x _ {k} ^ {\top} Q x _ {k} + u _ {k} ^ {\top} R u _ {k}\right), \\ \text { s.t. } G U \leq h (x _ {0}), \tag {2} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $x _ { k }$ is the predicted state corresponding to U driven by (1), and $Q _ { f } , Q \succeq 0$ and $R \succ 0$ are the weight matrices. The inequality $G U \leq h ( x _ { 0 } )$ , with $G \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times N m }$ and $h ( x _ { 0 } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ , compactly represents state and input constraints, where $p \in$ N denotes the total number of inequalities.

From the optimizer, only the first optimal input $u _ { 0 }$ is applied to the system, and the process repeats at the next time step with the updated state.

We can rewrite the standard LQ-MPC problem (2) in a compact quadratic program (QP) form [16, Ch. 8]. The dynamics (1) induces the following prediction model

$$X = \Lambda x _ {0} + \Psi U, \tag {3}$$

where $X \ = \ [ x _ { 1 } ; \cdot \cdot \cdot ; x _ { N } ] \ \in \ \mathbb { R } ^ { N n }$ and the matrices $\Lambda \ \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { N n \times n }$ and $\dot { \Psi } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N n \times \bar { N } m }$ are determined by the system parameters $( A , B )$ . Substituting this model into the cost function yields the compact quadratic cost

$$J _ {0} (U; x _ {0}) = \frac {1}{2} U ^ {\top} H U + x _ {0} ^ {\top} S U + x _ {0} ^ {\top} P x _ {0}, \tag {4}$$

where the matrices $H \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N m \times N m } , S \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times N m }$ , and $P \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ are determined by $( A , B , Q , R , Q _ { f } )$ .

By defining the constraint residual $g ( U ; x _ { 0 } ) : = G U -$ $h ( x _ { 0 } )$ , the feasible set can be characterized as

$$\mathcal {F} (x _ {0}) = \{U \in \mathbb {R} ^ {N m}: g (U; x _ {0}) \leq 0 \}. \tag {5}$$

Dropping the constant term $x _ { 0 } ^ { \top } P x _ { 0 }$ yields the equivalent QP:

$$\min _ {U \in \mathcal {F} (x _ {0})} J _ {Q} (U; x _ {0}) := \frac {1}{2} U ^ {\top} H U + x _ {0} ^ {\top} S U. \tag {6}$$
