We validate our theoretical setup in two representative scenarios. First, we focus on a coverage problem [13] in the presence of dangerous zones. In this setting, a swarm of controllable agents is tasked with reaching a constant density profile in some domain of interest while avoiding dangerous zones. Then, we consider a shepherding control problem from robotics [10], in which a set of leader agents (or herders) needs to collect and confine a set of follower agents (or targets) into a predefined goal region. These problems have applications ranging from swarm robotics and traffic [14], [15] to environmental monitoring [16], where direct control of all agents is infeasible.

To set the stage for our contribution, we briefly recall CBFs for stochastic systems [5]. Consider the stochastic controlled dynamics

$$\mathrm{d} \mathbf {z} (t) = \mathbf {f} (\mathbf {z} (t), \mathbf {u} (t)) \mathrm{d} t + \sqrt {2 D} \mathrm{d} \mathbf {W} (t), \tag {1}$$

where $\pmb { \mathrm { z } } \in \Omega \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ is the system’s state, f models its deterministic dynamics, u is a control input, and W is a standard Wiener process with diffusion coefficient D > 0. The control input u is typically chosen to perform some control task and then adjusted to guarantee safety. The system remains safe if, for all $t \geq 0 , \mathbf { z } \in \mathcal { C }$ with probability 1, where C represents the safe operating region

$$\mathcal {C} = \{\mathbf {z}: h (\mathbf {z}) \geq 0 \}, \quad \partial \mathcal {C} = \{\mathbf {z}: h (\mathbf {z}) = 0 \}, \tag {2}$$

with h being a locally Lipschitz scalar function. Provided that $\mathbf { z } ( 0 ) \in \mathcal { C }$ , the control action u ensures safety if, ∀t,

$$\frac {\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d} t} h (\mathbf {z}) = \nabla h (\mathbf {z}) \cdot \mathbf {f} (\mathbf {z}, \mathbf {u}) + D \Delta h (\mathbf {z}) \geq - \alpha (h (\mathbf {z})), \tag {3}$$

where α is a continuous strictly increasing function such that α(0) = 0 (class-K function). One can then adjust u into its safety-corrected version u∗ in real time by solving

$$\mathbf {u} ^ {*} = \underset {\mathbf {u} ^ {*}} {\arg \min} \| \mathbf {u} ^ {*} - \mathbf {u} \| ^ {2} \tag {4}\text { s.t. } \quad \nabla h (\mathbf {z}) \cdot \mathbf {f} (\mathbf {z}, \mathbf {u}) + D \Delta h (\mathbf {z}) \geq - \alpha (h (\mathbf {z})).$$
