Finally, we translate our sharp contractivity conditions into practical tools for machine learning. We derive an exact, unconstrained algebraic parameterization of the most expressive set of synaptic matrices characterized by our contraction LMIs (Theorem 35). Motivated by [26], we leverage our parameterization to design highly expressive, yet parameter efficient implicit neural networks with input-dependent weights. We demonstrate that the resulting architecture demonstrates competitive accuracy on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 benchmarks.

Compared to the early version of this work [20], this extended journal version contains several novel contributions. First, we present a nonlinear separation principle within the framework of contraction theory. Second, we provide an extensive analysis of interconnections of RNNs with specialized results for Graph RNNs. Third, the results on reference tracking in [20] are substantially generalized; in particular, our analysis accommodates open-loop unstable plants, which are excluded by the conditions in [20]. Finally, we provide a formal analysis with an explicit local Lipschitz bound for our parameter efficient implicit neural networks.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows: We introduce some preliminaries in Section II. We present our first main result, a nonlinear separation principle in Section III. Next, we provide an analysis of the conditions for contractivity of FRNNs and HNNs including results on interconnections of RNNs in Section IV. The applications of our theoretical efforts in control design are discussed in Section V and in machine learning are discussed in Section VI.
