# 1 INTRODUCTION

This paper considers the adaptive control problem for a class of nonlinear stochastic systems in the form

$$x _ {t + 1} = f (A ^ {*} x _ {t} + B ^ {*} u _ {t}) + w _ {t + 1}, t \geq 0, \tag {1}$$

where $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the system state with initial condition $x _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n } , u _ { t } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ and $w _ { t + 1 } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ represent the input and random noise process, respectively, $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  { \mathrm { \hat { \mathbb { R } } } } ^ { n }$ is a known nonlinear map, and matrices $A ^ { * } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ and $B ^ { * } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times m }$ are unknown parameters. This class of nonlinear dynamics occurs in many emerging applications, including, e.g., Elman recurrent neural networks (RNNs) in machine learning. Therein, the model (1) is also known as a nonlinear recurrent dynamics with the

activation map f(·), and common choices for the nonlinear activation maps include the Heaviside, ReLU, and logistic functions (see, e.g., Mienye et al. (2024); Schäfer and Zimmermann (2006); Elman (1990)). Another example of the nonlinear model (1) arises in the dynamics of social networks, where the nonlinear map f reflects the saturation and binarization of opinions as individuals interact with their social peers, while the input ut models external interventions from influential actors or opinion leaders in the network (see, e.g., Durlauf and Ioannides (2010); Su et al. (2021); Ancona et al. (2023)) Additional examples of the nonlinear model (1) include neuronal dynamics in biomedical engineering (see Keeler et al. (1989) and Sect. 2 in Wu (2001)) and overflow oscillations of digital filters in signal processing (see, e.g., Ebert et al. (1969); Ooba (2003)).
