In Case III, the DRL controller is confronted with flexibility constraints. The controller therefore must adjust its operation based on external flexibility disturbances. The flexibility time windows are placed when the agent generally takes action to heat the room (Case II). We observe that the DRL-based controller responds to the flexibility provision request, trying to reduce the energy consumption by 30% compared to historical data for this time window with $\phi _ { \mathrm { f l e x i b i l i t y } } \ = \ 0 . 7 ,$ as shown in Fig. 4. As a result, the agent tries to preheat the room before flexibility time windows during low electricity prices in order to comply with flexibility constraints, as seen at ○4 . Compared to the baseline RB controller, cost savings are increased heavily, and comfort temperature violations are decreased. However, despite prioritizing the flexibility provision over comfort temperature in the reward function, the controller fails to fulfill all flexibility requests.

In Case IV, we introduce the DRL-based controller combined with the RASF introduced in Section 4, ensuring strict compliance with the flexibility constraints during flexibility time windows. In Fig. 4, we see that the safety filter ensures fulfillment of the flexibility constraints, for example at ○2 & ○3 , where the agent without safety filter would not comply with them. Compared to Case III, the comfort temperature violation increases minimally, see ○2 , and energy consumption and cost of electricity are comparable, as shown in Fig. 6. The controller with the safety filter still outperforms the baseline RB controller by reducing cost by 64.5% while improving thermal comfort by 45.5%.

In Case II, the agent maintains temperatures near the lower comfort bound, as shown in Fig 4, reducing fluctuations compared to the RB controller. It preheats during low-price periods (see ○1 ) to reduce later heating needs, effectively lowering demand during peak prices. As shown in Fig. 6, this results in 54.9% cost savings and minimal comfort violations. Compared to Cases III and IV, Case II shows higher energy use and cost due to the absence of flexibility constraints.
