# B. Necessary vs. sufficient conditions for contractivity

Theorem 14 implies that continuous-time FRNNs and HNNs with MONE nonlinearities admit the largest set of synaptic matrices. Next, we seek to characterize the sharpness of these certificates. We focus on the FRNN case, as HNN results hold via duality. First we relate this certificate to the Lyapunov Diagonal Stability (LDS) of $W { - } I _ { n }$ .

Proposition 16 (Relationship with Lyapunov Diagonal Stability): Let $W \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ be a synaptic matrix for the firing rate neural network (18). The following hold

(i) If W satisfies (25) for $P \succ 0$ , diagonal $Q \succ 0$ and $c > 0$ , then $W - I _ { n } { \mathrm { ~ i s ~ } } Q { \mathrm { - L D S } } .$ .   
(ii) The converse is not true; $W  { - } I _ { n }$ being LDS is not sufficient to guarantee contraction in any fixed norm.

Proof: To prove (i), we left and right multiply the matrix inequality (25) by the matrix $[ I _ { n } , I _ { n } ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times 2 n }$ obtaining,

$$- 2 (1 - c) P + P + W ^ {\top} Q + P + Q W - 2 Q \preceq 0 \tag {34}\Longrightarrow W ^ {\top} Q + Q W \preceq 2 Q - 2 c P \prec 2 Q. \tag {35}$$

This proves that the $W - I _ { n }$ is Q−LDS.

The claim in (ii) is established by the following counterexample1. Consider a skew-synaptic weight matrix $W =$ $\left\lceil \begin{array} { l l } { 0 } & { 4 } \\ { - 4 } & { 0 } \end{array} \right\rceil$ Since $W + W ^ { \top } \ = \ 0 \ \prec \ 2 I , \ W - \ I _ { n }$ is LDS.

For contraction in the norm $\| \cdot \| _ { P }$ , the matrix $\mathcal { M } ( D ) ~ =$ $2 P { - } P D W { - } W ^ { \top } D P$ must be positive definite for all diagonal $D \in [ 0 , I ] , { \mathrm { e . g . } }$ , see [8]. Testing the vertices $D _ { 1 } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( 1 , 0 )$ and $D _ { 2 } = \mathrm { d i a g } ( 0 , 1 )$ ,

$$
\mathcal {M} (D _ {1}) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 2 p _ {1 1} & 2 p _ {1 2} - 4 p _ {1 1} \\ 2 p _ {1 2} - 4 p _ {1 1} & 2 p _ {2 2} - 8 p _ {1 2} \end{array} \right], \tag {36}

\mathcal {M} (D _ {2}) = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 2 p _ {1 1} - 8 p _ {1 2} & 2 p _ {1 2} - 4 p _ {2 2} \\ 2 p _ {1 2} - 4 p _ {2 2} & 2 p _ {2 2} \end{array} \right]. \tag {37}
$$

Since the determinants of these matrices need to be positive,

$\bullet \ p _ { 1 1 } p _ { 2 2 } > p _ { 1 2 } ^ { 2 } + 4 p _ { 1 1 } ^ { 2 } \ \Longrightarrow \ p _ { 2 2 } > 4 p _ { 1 1 } .$   
$\bullet \ p _ { 1 1 } p _ { 2 2 } > p _ { 1 2 } ^ { 2 } + 4 p _ { 2 2 } ^ { 2 } \implies p _ { 1 1 } > 4 p _ { 2 2 } .$

These conditions contradict to the condition $P \succ 0 .$
