# 4.2 Adaptive tracking

In this subsection, we establish an adaptive tracking result under the adaptive control (23). The performance is measured by the following average tracking error:

$$J _ {t} = \frac {1}{t} \sum_ {\tau = 0} ^ {t} \left(\left\| x _ {\tau} - x _ {\tau} ^ {*} \right\| ^ {2} + \left\| u _ {\tau} - u _ {\tau} ^ {*} \right\| ^ {2}\right). \tag {29}$$

In the sequel, we show that, if the reference controller $\pi _ { \theta ^ { * } } ( \cdot )$ exponentially stabilizes any equilibrium of (1), then the adaptive controller (23), together with the estimator $\widehat { \theta } _ { t }$ given in Algorithm 1, guarantees that the tracking error $J _ { t }$ in (29) vanishes asymptotically.

To this end, we introduce the following assumption on the reference trajectory $\{ x _ { t } ^ { * } \} _ { t \geq 0 }$ , which requires that, under the true parameter $\theta ^ { * }$ , the closed-loop behavior induced by $\pi _ { \theta ^ { * } } ( \cdot )$ is memoryless with respect to the initial condition.

Assumption 5 There exists constants $M _ { 0 } > 0$ and $\rho _ { 0 } \in$ $( 0 , 1 )$ such that, for any noise sequence $\{ w _ { t } \} \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ sat-$i s f y i n g$ Assumption 2 and any initial states x0, $\boldsymbol { x } _ { 0 } ^ { \prime } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ ,

$$\left\| x _ {t} ^ {*} \left(x _ {0}\right) - x _ {t} ^ {*} \left(x _ {0} ^ {\prime}\right) \right\| \leq M _ {0} \rho_ {0} ^ {t} \| x _ {0} - x _ {0} ^ {\prime} \|, a. s., \tag {30}$$

where $x _ { t } ^ { * } ( x _ { 0 } )$ and $x _ { t } ^ { * } ( x _ { 0 } ^ { \prime } )$ are trajectories of system (22) under the same noise sequence $\dot { \{ \boldsymbol w _ { t } \} }$ with initial conditions $x _ { 0 }$ and $x _ { 0 } ^ { \prime }$ , respectively.

Remark 3 Assumption 5 requires that the reference trajectory is exponentially contractive with respect to the initial condition. This condition ensures that transient estimation errors at the early stage do not affect the longrun average performance. For a linear stochastic system, $i . e . , f ( x ) = x $ , if the reference trajectory is generated under the feedback control $u _ { t } ^ { * } = K ^ { * } { \dot { x } } _ { t }$ such that $A ^ { * } + B ^ { * } K ^ { * }$ is Schur stable, then there exist constants $M _ { 0 } > 0$ and $\rho _ { 0 } \in ( 0 , 1 )$ such that $\| ( A ^ { * } + B ^ { * } K ^ { * } ) ^ { t } \| \le M _ { 0 } \rho _ { 0 } ^ { t }$ for al l $t \geq 0$ . In this case, (30) follows immediately.

Now, we are ready to give the convergence result of the tracking error $J _ { t }$ in the next theorem.
