where $F ^ { ( j ) }$ is the pseudo-gradient of agent $j ^ { \prime } { \mathfrak { s } }$ s conjectured game in (5). Later, we apply assumptions so that $\mathcal { S } ^ { ( j ) }$ is always well-defined and single-valued, in line with Proposition 2. At each time step t, from the finite horizon vGNE prediction $u ^ { ( j ) }$ , agent $j$ selects their instantaneous control action as the first element of their individual control signal, i.e., $u _ { j , 0 } ^ { ( j ) } = \Xi _ { j } S ^ { ( j ) } ( \mathbf { x } )$ , where $\Xi _ { j }$ is a selection matrix.

3) Closed-loop dynamics of heterogeneous MPG controllers: When each agent $j \in N$ utilizes an MPG controller and implements the action $u _ { j , 0 } ^ { ( j ) } .$ the realized joint action at time t and state $x _ { t }$ is $\begin{array} { r c l } { \check { u } _ { t } ^ { \circ } } & { = } & { \kappa ( \boldsymbol { x } _ { t } ) } & { : = } \end{array}$ $\left[ \Xi _ { 1 } S ^ { ( 1 ) } ( x _ { t } ) ^ { \top } , \ldots , \Xi _ { n } S ^ { ( n ) } ( x _ { t } ) ^ { \top } \right] ^ { \top }$ . With this state feedback, the closed-loop system becomes

$$x _ {t + 1} = A x _ {t} + B \kappa (\mathbf {x} _ {t}) = A x _ {t} + \sum_ {j \in N} B _ {j} \Xi_ {j} \mathcal {S} ^ {(j)} (x _ {t}), \tag {7}$$

where $B = [ B _ { 1 } , \ldots , B _ { n } ]$ and κ is the feedback law.

Existing work on MPG controllers considers a homogeneous game model shared by all of the agents, simplifying our closed-loop system (7) to contain only one vGNE solution. In practice, these controllers are deployed on

2The finite-horizon model predictive control approach approximates a solution to the infinite-horizon version, which can be computationally intractable [5]. Here, the finite horizon game offers tractable game-theoretic solutions.

competing or distributed agents, where differences in beliefs, conjectures, or sensed information can result in misaligned models. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first work to provide a rigorous analysis of multi-agent systems heterogeneous MPG controllers. As such, in this work, we seek to address fundamental aspects of the system (7), specifically, stability and the sensitivity of the resulting equilibrium to conjectured game parameters.
