Proof. We begin with statement (a). If $( y , v ) \in \mathcal { C } _ { \mathcal { F } ^ { 0 } } \left( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right) \times \bar { \mathcal { U } }$ and $( z , \alpha ) \in \mathcal { C } _ { \mathcal { F } } \left( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right) \times \breve { \mathcal { U } }$ are admissible for Problem 1 and Problem 2, respectively, then it is clear that $y + z \in \mathcal { C } _ { \mathcal { F } } \left( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right)$ and $v + \alpha \in \mathcal { U }$ .

Furthermore, from (4) and (6), y + z satisfies

$$d \left(y _ {t} + z _ {t}\right) = \left[ A _ {t} \left(y _ {t} + z _ {t}\right) + B _ {t} \left(v _ {t} + \alpha_ {t}\right) + F _ {t} y _ {t} + b _ {t} \right] d t + D _ {t} d W _ {t} + D _ {t} ^ {0} d W _ {t} ^ {0}, \quad y _ {0} + z _ {0} = \xi . \tag {8}$$

Since $\mathbb { E } [ y _ { t } + z _ { t } | \mathcal { F } _ { t } ^ { 0 } ] = y _ { t }$ for every $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , it follows that (8) coincides with (2), implying that y + z satisfies (2). Hence, $( y + z , v + \alpha )$ is an admissible pair for Problem MFT.

Now, we verify the statement (b). Let $( x , u ) \in \mathcal { C } _ { \mathcal { F } } \left( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right) \times \mathcal { U }$ be admissible for Problem MFT. Note that from (7) $\bar { u } \in \bar { \mathcal { U } }$ and $\breve { u } \in \breve { U }$ , and from (2) we obtain

$$
\begin{array}{l} \begin{array}{l} d \bar {x} _ {t} = \left[ \left(A _ {t} + F _ {t}\right) \bar {x} _ {t} + B _ {t} \bar {u} _ {t} + b _ {t} \right] d t + D _ {t} ^ {0} d W _ {t} ^ {0}, \\ d \checkmark = \left[ A \checkmark + B \checkmark \right] d t + D _ {t} d W _ {t}. \end{array} \quad \bar {x} _ {0} = \mathbb {E} [ \xi ], \tag {9} \\ d \breve {x} _ {t} = [ A _ {t} \breve {x} _ {t} + B _ {t} \breve {u} _ {t} ]   d t + D _ {t} d W _ {t}, \quad \breve {x} _ {0} = \xi - \mathbb {E} [ \xi ]. \\ \end{array}
$$

That is, for $\bar { \xi } = \mathbb { E } [ \xi ] , \breve { \xi } = \xi - \mathbb { E } [ \xi ] , v = \bar { u }$ and $\alpha = { \breve { u } }$ , the processes x¯ and x˘ satisfy (4) and (6), respectively. Therefore, for any admissible pair $( x , v )$ for Problem MFT, the pairs (x, ¯ u¯) and (x, ˘ u˘) are admissible for Problem 1 and Problem 2, respectively. □
