This paper studies the resilient fixed-time COR problem of heterogeneous linear MASs over general directed graphs under DoS attacks. The key challenge in addressing this problem lies in how to develop a distributed controller that guarantees fixed-time convergence of the regulated outputs in the presence of both directed graphs and DoS attacks. On one hand, it is noteworthy that the techniques in [34], [35] and [36], which are developed for undirected graphs, cannot be adopted for directed graphs because they rely on the symmetric properties of Laplacian matrices. On the other hand, the method in [37] addresses directed graphs but requires the strong connectivity and detail-balanced condition, making it inapplicable to general directed graphs due to its reliance on the symmetric properties of the weighted variant of the Laplacian matrices. Thus, we develop some new techniques to tackle the COR problem of heterogeneous linear MASs over directed graphs under DoS attacks in this study. The primary contributions of this paper are outlined below.

(i) A novel distributed resilient fixed-time observer is developed by taking general directed graphs and DoS attacks into consideration. This observer is constructed for each agent to estimate the state of the exosystem, and it is proven that the observer’s state approaches the exosystem’s state in a fixed time, even when the communication network of the MAS is a general directed graph and subject to DoS attacks. An explicit upper bound, independent of the initial states of both the observer and the exosystem, is also provided. With the proposed observer, we then develop a novel distributed resilient fixedtime controller via the geometrical homogeneity principle [38]. This controller ensures the fixed-time convergence to zero of the regulated outputs with its upper bound independent of the initial states of the MAS.
