# 3. DEEP REINFORCEMENT LEARNING CONTROLLER

As mentioned above, the DRL algorithm aims to determine the optimal control set points for the heat pump, specifically the valve opening level. Since we consider the valve opening as the DRL’s action $\left( u \mathrm { ~ = ~ } [ u _ { t } ] \right)$ and it is a continuous variable, we apply DRL using a Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) algorithm which is wellsuited for continuous action spaces. The DDPG framework consists of two neural networks: a critic network, which estimates the value function (Q-value) for state-action pairs, and an actor network, which learns a deterministic policy to select actions given a state. We define the state of the DRL agent at time t as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} S _ {t} = \left[ I _ {\text { solar }, t}, T _ {\text { amb }, t}, T _ {\text { room }, t}, T _ {\text { neigh }, t}, X _ {\text { time }, t} \right. \\ \left. u _ {t}, c _ {\text { heat }, t}, t _ {\text { tostart }, t}, t _ {\text { toend }, t}, E _ {\mathrm{BAU}, t}, E _ {t} \right], \tag {2} \\ \end{array}
$$

where $I _ { \mathrm { s o l a r } , t }$ represents the solar irradiation, $T _ { \mathrm { a m b } , t }$ is the ambient temperature, $T _ { \mathrm { r o o m } , t }$ is the controlled room temperature, and $T _ { \mathrm { n e i g h } , t }$ is the temperature of the neighboring room, influencing heat transfer. The variable $X _ { \mathrm { t i m e } , t }$ specifies the time of day, weekday, and season, while cheat,t denotes the heating or cooling scenario. The terms ttostart,t and $t _ { \mathrm { t o e n d } , t }$ define the flexibility provision window. The BAU energy $E _ { \mathrm { B A U } , t }$ is the amount of energy used without flexibility provision. The simulator computes the BAU energy consumption by running the DRL agent without considering flexibility constraints on historical data. The energy that has already been used during the flexibility time window is described by $E _ { t } .$ , so that the agent knows how much more energy it can use minimally or maximally.

The reward function helps the agent to maintain a balance between energy consumption and thermal comfort while fulfilling flexibility provisions. Thus, the reward function is given by:

$$R _ {t} = \beta \cdot R _ {\text {temp}, t} - \delta \cdot R _ {\text {price}, t} - R _ {\text {flex}, t}, \tag {3}$$
