# III. PARAMETER ESTIMATOR DESIGN

In this section, an SP-ICL update law is developed to estimate the unknown parameters.

Lemma 1: For a fixed delay $T > 0$ and for all $t \geq 0$ , the system dynamics satisfy the incremental relation

$$U _ {f} (t) = Y _ {f} (t) \theta , \tag {5}$$

where the filtered regressor $Y _ { f } ( t )$ and filtered state $U _ { f } ( t )$ are defined piecewise as

$$
Y _ {f} (t) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0 _ {n \times p}, & t <   T \\ \int_ {t - T} ^ {t} Y (x (\tau))   d \tau , & t \geq T \end{array} \right.
$$

and

$$
U _ {f} (t) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0 _ {n \times 1}, & t <   T \\ x (t) - x (t - T) - \int_ {t - T} ^ {t} g (x (\tau)) u (\tau)   d \tau , & t \geq T. \end{array} \right.
$$

Proof: The result follows directly from the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus applied to (1).

To enable online parameter adaptation and data reuse, a finite set of delayed samples of size $N \geq 1$ is maintained in a history stack, defined as $\mathcal { H } : = \left\{ U _ { f _ { i } } , Y _ { f _ { i } } \right\} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } ,$ , where $U _ { f _ { i } } = U _ { f } ( t _ { i } )$ and $Y _ { f _ { i } } = Y _ { f } ( t _ { i } )$ for discrete times ${ \bf \bar { \Psi } } _ { t _ { i } } > T$ , are updated according to Algorithm 1. We define the memory regression extension signals Y and U such that,

$$\mathcal {Y} = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \frac {Y _ {f _ {i}} ^ {\top} Y _ {f _ {i}}}{1 + \kappa \| Y _ {f _ {i}} \| ^ {2}} \text { and } \mathcal {U} = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \frac {Y _ {f _ {i}} ^ {\top} U _ {f _ {i}}}{1 + \kappa \| Y _ {f _ {i}} \| ^ {2}}, \tag {6}$$

where $\left( Y _ { f _ { i } } , U _ { f _ { i } } \right) \ \in \ \mathcal { H }$ , and $\kappa ~ > ~ 0$ is a user-selected constant gain. The closed-loop system is assumed to satisfy the following excitation condition.

Assumption 2: The filtered regressor $Y _ { f } ~ : ~ [ t _ { 0 } , \infty ) ~ $ $\mathbb { R } ^ { n \times p }$ is finitely exciting (FE) over some interval $[ t _ { 0 } , t _ { s } ] , \mathrm { i . e . }$ ., there exists a finite collection of sampling instants $\{ t _ { i } \} _ { i = 1 } ^ { N } \subset$ $[ t _ { 0 } , t _ { s } ]$ such that for all $t \geq t _ { s }$

$$\lambda_ {\min} (\mathcal {Y}) \geq \underline {{y}} > 0. \tag {7}$$

Remark 1: The assumption is commonly adopted in $\mathrm { I C L } -$ based parameter estimation frameworks ( [10], [11], [31], [32]). Unlike the classical PE condition, however, it requires excitation only over a finite interval, making it a weaker requirement.
