# IV. CONTRACTION OF FIRING RATE AND HOPFIELD NEURAL NETWORKS

We are specifically motivated by the study of systems modeled by the firing rate neural network (FRNN), and the Hopfield neural network (HNN) in both continuous and discrete time. In this section, we present sharp contraction conditions and related properties for these dynamics. The continuous time FRNN and HNN dynamics are given below:

$$\dot {x} = - x + \Psi (W x + B u); \quad y = C x + D u \tag {18}\dot {x} = - x + W \Psi (x) + B u; \quad y = C \Psi (x) + D u. \tag {19}$$

Here, the state $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , input $u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , output $y \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ , and the synaptic matrix $W \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ , output matrices $C \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times n }$ , $D \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times m }$ . $\Psi ( \cdot )$ is a diagonal, slope restricted nonlinearity. Equation (18) represents the FRNN dynamics, and equation (19) represents the HNN dynamics. The corresponding discrete time dynamics are

$$x ^ {+} = \Psi (W x + B u); \quad y = C x + D u, \tag {20}x ^ {+} = W \Psi (x) + B u; \quad y = C \Psi (x) + D u. \tag {21}$$

In the HNN models (19), (21), the state x represents the internal membrane potentials of the neurons. Consequently, the measurable output y is read out as a linear combination of their resulting firing rates, $\Psi ( x )$ .

Remark 11: The state evolution in the FRNN and HNN dynamics (18)-(21) is structurally similar to a Lur’e model, which enables the use of Lemma 2 for the analysis of contractivity. However, in classical Lur’e systems, the input enters linearly, and the output is a linear function of the state. In FRNNs, the input appears inside the nonlinearity, and in HNNs, the output is a nonlinear function of the state. This nonlinear coupling precludes the direct application of results developed for standard Lur’e systems [19].

Theorem 12 (Contractivity of FRNN and HNN): Consider the FRNN and HNN dynamics (18)-(21), for some constant u. Let W be the synaptic weight matrix and let the activation function $\Psi ( \cdot )$ belong to either the CONE or MONE class. If the corresponding matrix inequality in Table I is satisfied by $P \succ 0 .$ , diagonal $Q \succ 0$ and scalar $c > 0 \ \mathrm { o r } \ \rho \in [ 0 , 1 )$ , then the system is infinitesimally strongly contracting with rate c (in continuous time) or strongly contracting with factor $\rho$ (in discrete time) in the norm $\| \cdot \| _ { P }$ .
