In this paper, we propose an alternative approach to address a general class of LQ McKean-Vlasov control problems where dynamics are driven by two independent Wiener processes and involve the conditional expectation of the state with respect to one of them, with the coefficients also adapted to this same noise. The key idea is to decompose the original problem into two auxiliary stochastic optimal control problems: one that is independent of the conditional expectations of the relevant processes, and the other that involves a constrained admissible control set requiring the conditional expected value of the control process to be almost surely zero. These two problems may be solved using standard methods developed for non-McKean-Vlasov problems. We establish the equivalence of well-posedness, solvability and solutions between the original Mckean-Vlasov problem and the two auxiliary stochastic control problems. Moreover, we employ a variational method to solve these auxiliary problems and, as a result, express the solution to the original Mckean-Vlasov control problem as the sum of these solutions. This solution is fully characterized by two decoupled sets of (non-Mckean-Vlasov) linear FBSDEs, each of which characterizes the solution to one of the auxiliary problems. Finally, we show that standard dynamic programming can also be applied to solve the resulting auxiliary problems. The proposed decomposition method is inspired by [23], which studies discrete-time N -player cooperative games where agents are coupled through their average state, and it naturally applies to simpler LQ Mckean-Vlasov models involving a single Wiener process or deterministic coefficients.

Compared to the extended stochastic maximum principle [3, 12, 20, 17, 21, 22], our proposed method yields simpler FBSDEs that do not explicitly depend on the conditional expectations of the relevant processes. Moreover, relative to the extended dynamic programming approach [7], our method relaxes the restrictions on the admissible control set by allowing controls to be adapted to both Wiener processes driving the dynamics. Finally, it addresses the open problem indicated in [3], motivated by observations on the potential use of LQ problems with constrained control sets in studying LQ Mckean-Vlasov optimal control problems.

The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the necessary notation and preliminaries, and presents the formulation of the McKean-Vlasov control problems under consideration. Section 3 details the proposed decomposition approach and applies a variational method to derive the solution to the McKean–Vlasov control problems under study, while the use of dynamic programming is deferred to Appendix B. Finally, Section 4 concludes the paper.
