The next proposition shows that the FRNN MONE certificate is tight for symmetric matrices, recovering the optimal contraction rate and contractivity characterizations from [8]. Note that, in the case of $\Psi ( x ) = x ,$ , the FRNN and HNN linear dynamics can only be contracting (i.e., stable) when $W - I$ is Hurwitz, that is, the spectral abscissa of W is less than 1. For $W = W ^ { \top }$ , this condition is also sufficient.

Proposition 17 (Log-optimal characterization for symmetric weights): Let $W = W ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ with spectral abscissa α.

(i) For $\alpha \leq 0$ , the FRNN MONE certificate (25) holds for $P = - W , Q = I _ { n } .$ , and c = 1.   
(ii) For $0 ~ < ~ \alpha ~ < ~ 1$ , there exists $P \ \succ \ 0$ such that $W =$ $P ^ { 1 / 2 } - ( 4 \alpha ) ^ { - 1 } P$ , and the FRNN MONE certificate (25) holds for this $P , Q = 4 \alpha I _ { n }$ , and $c = 1 - \alpha ( W )$ .

Proof: Consider the Schur complement of (25).

$$- 2 (1 - c) P + \frac {1}{2} (P + W ^ {\top} Q) Q ^ {- 1} (P + Q W) \preceq 0. \tag {38}$$

1This counterexample can be found in the literature, e.g., [25, Theorem 7], but we include a proof for completeness.

If $\alpha < 0$ , this inequality is satisfied by $P = - W \succ 0 , Q = I _ { n }$ and $c = 1$ into (38). If $\alpha \in ( 0 , 1 )$ , it can be shown [8, Lemma 10] that the equation $W = \dot { P } ^ { 1 / 2 } - { \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 4 \alpha } } P$ has a solution $P \succ 0 .$ Choosing $Q = 4 \alpha I$ , and substituting W and Q into the LHS of (38) and $c = 1 - a$ yields $- 2 ( 1 - c ) P + 2 \alpha P = 0$ .

Remark 18: The equivalent results to Proposition 17 for HNNs hold via duality (Theorem 14).

Having shown the sharpness of the FRNN and HNN MONE certificates, and their optimality for the class of symmetric matrices, we define the notion of S-contraction corresponding to these certificates.

Definition 3 (S-contraction): An FRNN (or HNN) with a MONE nonlinearity is said to be S-contracting if its synaptic matrix satisfies the FRNN(or HNN) MONE contraction certificate (25) (or (29)).

Remark 19 (Sharpness and Complexity): The term Scontraction signifies the use of the S-procedure to incorporate incremental multiplier matrices. This characterization is:

(i) Polynomial-time verifiable: While certifying absolute contractivity for neural networks involves checking 2n matrix inequalities [8], S-contraction is a convex feasibility problem solvable in polynomial time via LMIs.   
(ii) Sharp: The conditions are sharp as they constitute the tightest constraints obtainable via the S-lemma using incremental multipliers for absolute contractivity.
