# 5.1 Simulation Setup

The proposed controller is applied to the building model of the UMAR unit, which is trained on historical heating data between December 2021 and March 2022 with 15-minute resolution. The data used are normalized between [0.1, 0.9] using min-max normalization to avoid biased results based on the different scales of the variables.

To evaluate the performance of the proposed SRL controller, we define specific conditions for comfort room temperature, electricity pricing, and flexibility provision. The comfort range for room temperature is defined as $[ T ^ { \mathrm { m i n } } , T ^ { \mathrm { m a x } } ] = [ 2 \breve { 3 } . 5 , 2 5 ] ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C } ^ { 2 }$ and a dynamic price tariff is used as electricity price. The specifications of the flexibility request in the form of $F = ( t _ { \mathrm { s } } , t _ { \mathrm { e } } , \phi _ { \mathrm { f l e x i b i l i t y } } )$ are communicated every day at 8 am. The start and end times of flexibility windows are randomly selected for the training of the DRL agent, with a maximum duration of ten hours, to simulate various flexibility requests. The flexibility coefficient $\phi _ { \mathrm { f l e x i b i l i t y } }$ is also randomly selected within the given boundaries $[ \phi _ { \mathrm { l o w } } , \phi _ { \mathrm { h i g h } } ] = [ 0 . 7 , 1 . 3 ]$ , corresponding to lower or higher energy consumption compared to the BAU scenario. The weighting factors in the reward function, balancing comfort violations and electricity price, are set to $\beta = 2 0$ and $\delta = 0 . 8$ , while the penalty for not fulfilling flexibility constraints is set to $\alpha _ { 1 } = 1$ and $\alpha _ { 2 } = 1 0 .$ . The weighting factor for tolerance calculation in the RASF is chosen as $w _ { 1 } = 0 . 5$ for this case study.

To evaluate the performance of the proposed DRL-based controller with the safety filter, we compare it against a baseline Rule-based (RB) controller, analyzing the temperature evolution, the electricity cost, and the flexibility provision. The RB controller follows a conventional hysteresisbased strategy. The valve of the heat pump is opened when the room temperature $T _ { \mathrm { r o o m } , t }$ falls below the lower comfort boundary $T _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { m i n } }$ , and closed when $T _ { \mathrm { r o o m } , t }$ exceeds the upper comfort boundary $T _ { t } ^ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ .

As a result, the baseline controller does not optimize heating based on electricity price variations and does not incorporate demand-side flexibility provision. It only reacts to the temperature threshold, leading to heat pump ON/OFF cycles. The BAU scenario, used for flexibility time windows, is computed by projecting future actions based on historical data without assuming flexibility provision or other external disturbances.
