# 2.4 Flexibility Provision

Flexible building operation refers to a building’s ability to adjust its energy consumption patterns in response to signals or requests from the system operators (Ostergaard et al., 2021). In our study, the controller incorporates flexibility provision messages by the operators while maintaining thermal comfort and minimizing electricity costs.

We consider flexibility provision messages in the form of $F = \left( t _ { \mathrm { s } } , t _ { \mathrm { e } } , \phi _ { \mathrm { f l e x i b i l i t y } } \right)$ , where $t _ { \mathrm { s } }$ and $t _ { \mathrm { e } }$ represent the starting and ending times of a flexibility provision time window H, respectively, and $\phi _ { \mathrm { f l e x i b i l i t y } }$ denotes the flexibility factor. The flexibility factor ϕflexibility $\mathbf { \Phi } \in [ \phi _ { \mathrm { l o w } } , \phi _ { \mathrm { h i g h } } ]$ specifies the energy consumption during the flexibility time window compared to the Business-as-usual (BAU) scenario without external intervention, as visualized in Fig. 2.

The deep reinforcement learning-based controller incorporates the flexibility provision messages $F$ as part of the state space. This approach allows the DRL agent to learn policies that naturally comply with flexibility constraints during training, such as preheating the room before a flexibility provision time window starts. However, this does not guarantee that flexibility constraints are fully satisfied in all scenarios. Thus, an additional safety filter is required to ensure strict compliance with flexibility constraints.
