$( \Longrightarrow ) { \mathrm { : } }$ Since the system (11) is capable of generating all trajectories compatible with the historical data of system (34), $( X _ { p } , X _ { f } , U _ { p } , Y _ { p } , Y _ { f } )$ inherently constitutes a valid trajectory of (11). By substituting this trajectory into the state-update equation (11), the kernel inclusion condition (42) is directly satisfied. This completes the proof. 

In the following, we investigate the existence for a UIO and develop a data-driven framework for state estimation in the presence of unknown inputs.

Theorem 3 (Full-order data-driven UIO) Suppose that Assumption 3 holds, and system (34) is subject to unknown inputs. The observer matrices of (11) are then constructed as

$$
\begin{array}{l l} A _ {O} = \bar {\Sigma} _ {X _ {p}}, & B _ {O} ^ {u} = \bar {\Sigma} _ {U _ {p}}, \\ B ^ {u} = \bar {\Sigma}, & N = \bar {\Sigma}. \end{array} \tag {46}
B _ {O} ^ {y} = \bar {\Sigma} _ {Y _ {p}}, N _ {O} = \bar {\Sigma} _ {Y _ {f}},$$

which are defined in (43). Then, a full-order UIO of the form (11) exists if and only if condition (42) holds and $\bar { \Sigma } _ { X _ { p } }$ is Schur stable. Consequently, for any initial estimate xˆ(0), the state estimate ${ \hat { x } } ( k + 1 )$ generated by the iterative law:

$$
\hat {x} (k + 1) = \left[ \begin{array}{l l l l} \bar {\Sigma} _ {X _ {p}} & \bar {\Sigma} _ {U _ {p}} & \bar {\Sigma} _ {Y _ {p}} & \bar {\Sigma} _ {Y _ {f}} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} \hat {x} (k) \\ u (k) \\ y (k) \\ y (k + 1) \end{array} \right], \quad k \in \mathbb {Z} _ {0} \tag {47}
$$

asymptotically converges to the true state $x ( k + 1 )$ .

Proof: $( \Leftarrow )$ : Based on Lemma 2 and 3, system (11) with matrices defined in (46) is capable of generating all trajectories of system (34). Compare the system update (45) and the estimator update (47). Let the corresponding estimation error be $e ( k ) = { \dot { x } } ( k ) - { \hat { x } } ( k )$ . We have that $e ( \breve { k } )$ evolves according to the autonomous dynamics

$$e (k + 1) = A _ {O} e (k).$$

If AO is Schur stable, the estimation error asymptotically converges to zero.
