$$\left(\log \left(\sum_ {\tau = 0} ^ {t} \| \phi_ {\tau} \| ^ {2}\right)\right) ^ {1 + \delta} = o \left(\lambda_ {\min} \left\{\sum_ {\tau = 0} ^ {t} \frac {\phi_ {\tau} \phi_ {\tau} ^ {\top}}{1 + \| \phi_ {\tau} \| ^ {2}} \right\}\right). \tag {21}$$

In prior work on parameter estimation (e.g., Foster et al. (2020); Kowshik et al. (2021); Oymak (2019); Sattar and Oymak (2022)), the system (1) is typically assumed to be asymptotically global exponential stable (see Definition 2 in Foster et al. (2020)), and the inputs and noises $\{ u _ { t } \} , \{ w _ { t } \}$ are taken to be independent and sub-Gaussian. Under these assumptions, the trajectory {ϕt} satisfies two key properties almost surely: 1) the $\bar { P E }$ condition, $i . e . , t = { \cal O } \left( \lambda _ { \mathrm { m i n } } \left\{ \sum _ { \tau = 0 } ^ { t } \phi _ { \tau } \phi _ { \tau } ^ { \top } \right\} \right) , a . s . , ( s e e , e . g .$ , Theorem 4 in Foster et al. (2020)), and 2) bounded-moment condition, $\begin{array} { r } { i . e . , \sum _ { \tau = 0 } ^ { t } \lVert \phi _ { \tau } \rVert ^ { 2 + \rho } = O ( t ) } \end{array}$ for some $\rho > 0$ . Together, these two conditions imply (21), and hence Algorithm 1 is strongly consistent under this commonly studied setting.

More importantly, (21) indicates that strong consistency of Algorithm 1 may still hold even when the classical PE condition fails. For instance, if the trajectory satisfies $\begin{array} { r l r } { \sum _ { \tau = 0 } ^ { t } \| \phi _ { \tau } \| ^ { 2 + \rho } } & { { } = } & { O ( t ) a n d , } \end{array}$ instead of PE, obeys a weaker non-PE condition $( \log t ) ^ { 1 + \delta } = o \left( \lambda _ { \operatorname* { m i n } } \left\{ \sum _ { \tau = 0 } ^ { t } \phi _ { \tau } \phi _ { \tau } ^ { \top } \right\} \right)$ t , a.s., then (21) remains valid.
