# 3.2. Solvability

In this section, we demonstrate that the solvability of Problem MFT is equivalent to that of Problem 1 and Problem 2, which constitutes a key result of our approach. We begin with the following lemma.

Lemma 1. Suppose that Assumption 1 holds. Then, for any admissible pair (x, u) for Problem MFT and any $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , the following properties hold:

(i) $\mathbb { E } \left[ \zeta _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } \left( x _ { t } - H \bar { x } _ { t } \right) \right] = \mathbb { E } \left[ \bar { \zeta } _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } \bar { x } _ { t } \right]$   
(ii) $\mathbb { E } [ \varpi _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } u _ { t } ] = \mathbb { E } [ \varpi _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } \bar { u } _ { t } ] .$   
(iii) $\mathbb { E } [ u _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } R _ { t } u _ { t } ] = \mathbb { E } [ \breve { u } _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } R _ { t } \breve { u } _ { t } ] + \mathbb { E } [ \bar { u } _ { t } ^ { \mathsf { T } } R _ { t } \bar { u } _ { t } ] ,$   
(iv) ${ \mathbb E } [ ( x _ { t } - H \bar { x } _ { t } ) ^ { \top } S _ { t } u _ { t } ] = { \mathbb E } [ \check { x } _ { t } ^ { \top } S _ { t } \check { u } _ { t } ] + { \mathbb E } [ \bar { x } _ { t } ^ { \top } \bar { S } _ { t } \bar { u } _ { t } ] ,$   
(v) $\mathbb { E } [ ( x _ { t } - H \bar { x } _ { t } ) ^ { \top } Q _ { t } ( x _ { t } - H \bar { x } _ { t } ) ] = \mathbb { E } [ \check { x } _ { t } ^ { \top } Q _ { t } \check { x } _ { t } ] + \mathbb { E } \left[ \bar { x } _ { t } ^ { \top } \bar { Q } _ { t } \bar { x } _ { t } \right] ,$

where (x, ¯ u¯) and (x, ˘ u˘) are as given in (7). Moreover, $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { S } _ { t } \ : = \ ( I _ { n } - H ) ^ { \top } S _ { t } , \bar { \zeta } _ { t } \ = \ ( I _ { n } - H ) ^ { \top } \zeta _ { t } } \end{array}$ and $\bar { Q } _ { t } : =$ $( I _ { n } - H ) ^ { \mathsf { T } } Q _ { t } ( I _ { n } - H )$ , as given in the description of Problem 1.

Proof. Using the smoothing property of conditional expectations, i.e. $\mathbb { E } \left[ \mathbb { E } [ . | \mathcal { F } _ { t } ^ { 0 } ] \right] = \mathbb { E } [ . ]$ for every $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ in our context, (i), (ii) and (iii) can be established. The detailed proofs of (iv) and (v) are deferred to Appendix A. □

Corollary 1 (Cost Functional Decomposition). Suppose that Assumption 1 holds. Then, for any admissible pair $( x , u ) \in \mathcal { C } _ { \mathcal { F } } \left( [ 0 , T ] , \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \right) \times \mathcal { U }$ , the cost functional J(u), given by (1), can be expressed as

$$J (u) = \bar {J} (\bar {u}) + \check {J} (\check {u}), \tag {10}$$

where $\bar { J } ( . ) , \breve { J } ( . )$ , and (¯x, u¯) and (˘x, u˘) are, respectively, given by (3), (5), and (7).

Proof. From Proposition 1 and the properties (i)-(v), for any admissible pair $( x , u )$ for Problem MFT, we have
