# 5 Application to extended state observers

Extended state observers (ESO) play an important role in active disturbance rejection control (ADRC) [31]. Unlike UIOs, ESO estimates not only state variables but also disturbances. Here, we show that our data-based observers for descriptor systems could be directly applied to the design of ESO.

For discrete-time linear systems, consider the following model:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} x (k + 1) = A _ {0} x (k) + B _ {0} u (k) + E _ {0} d (k), \\ y (k) = C _ {0} x (k) + F _ {0} d (k), \end{array} \right. \tag {60}
$$

where $\ b { x } ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the state vector, $u ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is the known input, $\ b { d } ( k ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { r }$ is the disturbance, and $y ( k ) \in$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the output. The matrices $A _ { 0 } , B _ { 0 } , E _ { 0 } , \dot { C _ { 0 } }$ , and $F _ { 0 }$ are of appropriate dimensions, with $C _ { 0 }$ typically assumed to have full row rank and $F _ { 0 }$ assumed to have full column rank. Without loss of generality, assume that $[ E _ { 0 } ^ { \top } , F _ { 0 } ^ { \top } ] ^ { \top }$ has full column rank.

The key to ESO design is that the disturbance $d ( k )$ is treated as an additional state. The augmented system can be written as

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} E \tilde {x} (k + 1) = A \tilde {x} (k) + B u (k), \\ y (k) = C \tilde {x} (k), \end{array} \right. \tag {61}

\begin{array}{l} \text { where } \tilde {x} (k) = \left[ \begin{array}{c} x (k) \\ d (k) \end{array} \right], E = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} I _ {n} & 0 \\ 0 & 0 \end{array} \right], A = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A _ {0} & E _ {0} \\ 0 & 0 \end{array} \right], B = \\ \left[ \begin{array}{c} B _ {0} \\ 0 \end{array} \right], \text {and} C = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} C _ {0} & F _ {0} \end{array} \right]. \\ \end{array}
$$

It is not difficult to see that the augmented system (61)

satisfies Assumption 1, i.e. rk ${ \Bigg [ } E { \Bigg ] } = r k \left[ { \begin{array} { l l } { I _ { n } } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { 0 } \\ { C _ { 0 } } & { F _ { 0 } } \end{array} } \right] = $ $n + r .$

A standard form for the discrete-time ESO for the augmented system (61) is given by the following observer dynamics equation

$$\hat {x} (k + 1) = A _ {O} \hat {x} (k) + B _ {O} ^ {u} u (k) + B _ {O} ^ {y} y (k) + N _ {O} y (k + 1).$$
