# VII. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we established a contraction-based nonlinear separation principle and developed a comprehensive framework for the robust analysis, control design, and machine learning deployment of recurrent neural networks (RNNs). First, we introduced the separation principle alongside its parametric extensions for robustness and equilibrium tracking. Next, we derived sharp contraction certificates for FRNNs and HNNs, and investigated the fundamental properties of RNN interconnections, including an extension of our certificates to Graph RNNs. Building upon these theoretical foundations, we proposed a solution to the reference tracking problem for plants modeled by RNNs via LMI-based synthesis and lowgain integral control. Finally, we applied our certificates to implicit deep learning by deriving an exact, unconstrained algebraic parameterization. This parameterization enabled the design of parameter-efficient implicit neural networks that demonstrated improved expressivity and competitive benchmark accuracy.

Several promising directions for future work remain. First, we utilize our parametric extension of the separation principle with a low gain controller, an interesting direction is to consider extensions to optimization based controllers [9]. Second, extending the Graph RNN to undirected graphs would significantly broaden its applicability. Third, while our current analysis is restricted to standard RNNs, extending this contraction-based framework to more complex sequencemodeling architectures, such as LSTMs or transformers, is of major theoretical interest. Finally, deploying our robust contraction certificates in broader application domains, such as learning-to-optimize and large-scale network control, present an exciting avenue for future research.
