$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - 2 (1 - c) P & P + \lambda_ {i} W ^ {\top} Q \\ P + \lambda_ {i} Q W & - 2 Q \end{array} \right] \preceq 0 \forall i = 1, \dots , n, \tag {51}
$$

where $\lambda _ { i }$ is the ith diagonal element of Λ. Since this condition is linear in $\lambda _ { i } .$ , and $\lambda _ { i } \in [ 0 , 1 ]$ , it suffices to verify it at $\lambda = 0$ and $\lambda = 1 . { \mathrm { ~ A t ~ } } \lambda = 1$ , this condition is identical to (25). At $\lambda = 0 ,$ , the condition is implied by (A3), since

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - 2 (1 - c) P & P \\ P & - 2 Q \end{array} \right] \preceq 0 \iff P Q ^ {- 1} P \preceq 4 (1 - c) P.
$$

This finishes the proof.

Remark 24 (Computational Tractability for Large Graphs): In applications such as implicit neural networks, only the fixed point of the FRNN dynamics is of interest, not the trajectory. In small-scale systems, alternative methods such as Peaceman-Rachford operator splitting can be used to find this fixed point, and accommodate a larger set of synaptic matrices than S-contraction requires. However, this approach scales poorly, particularly in the context of graph neural networks [4]. Peaceman-Rachford requires to invert the matrix $( I _ { n m } - \alpha A ^ { \top } \otimes W )$ , for some constant $\alpha \in \mathbb { R }$ . This operation is computationally expensive $( O ( m ^ { 3 } n ^ { 3 } )$ in time, $O ( m ^ { 2 } n ^ { 2 } )$ in memory), destroys the natural sparse structure of the adjacency matrix, and precludes decentralized execution. While the system (47) restricts the set of synaptic matrices, it is computationally efficient and permits a distributed implementation.

Remark 25 (Assumptions on Graph Structure): We assume that the underlying graph is undirected. Restricting the eigenvalues to be in [0, 1] is common in Graph RNNs [24]. Given an arbitrary adjacency matrix ${ \tilde { A } } ,$ one can introduce the normalized adjacency matrix $\begin{array} { r } { A = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \tilde { D } ^ { - 1 / 2 } \tilde { A } \tilde { D } ^ { - 1 / 2 } + I _ { n } ) } \end{array}$ where $\tilde { D }$ is the diagonal weight degree matrix for A˜.

Extending our contraction guarantees to directed graphs remains an open problem.

Remark 26 (Comparisons to Small gain based results): General converse results for heterogeneous networks may be obtained via small gain theorems for contractivity [7, Theorem 3.23] and exponential stability [18]. Typically, these results treat other systems as disturbances, and as such, yield convergence rates worse than the rates of each subsystem, which we are able to maintain in the homogeneous S-contracting case.

An extension of our results to diagonally symmetrizable graphs is presented in Appendix IV
