literature mentioned earlier on resilient cooperative control of MASs ensure only the asymptotic or exponential convergence.

However, many practical engineering applications call for finite-time convergence rather than asymptotic or exponential convergence. As a result, finite-time cooperative control of MASs has attracted significant attention in recent years [24– 29]. In particular, the problems of finite-time cooperative control for MASs are studied in [24–26] while the problems of resilient finite-time cooperative control for MASs subject to DoS attacks are considered in [27–29]. Nevertheless, there is one drawback for those finite-time cooperative control schemes, i.e., the upper bounds of their settling times rely on the initial states of the concerned systems. Considerable efforts have been made to address this drawback via developing fixed-time cooperative control schemes [30–33]. For example, the fixed-time consensus problem of linear MASs is investigated over both undirected graphs [30] and directed graphs [31]. In [32], the same problem of nonlinear MASs is addressed over strongly connected and detail-balanced graphs. The authors in [33] propose a smooth distributed adaptive control scheme to address the fixed-time COR problem of nonlinear MASs over undirected graphs. More recently, the problems of resilient fixed-time cooperative control for MASs subject to DoS attacks are investigated [34–37]. Specifically, in [34], the resilient fixed-time consensus problem is studied for nonlinear MASs over directed graphs subject to connectivitymaintained/broken attacks. The resilient fixed-time consensus problem of nonlinear MASs over undirected graphs is tackled by a distributed fixed-time fuzzy control strategy in [35]. The resilient fixed-time COR problem of nonlinear MASs is investigated over undirected graphs in [36], while the same problem of heterogeneous linear MASs is considered over strongly connected and detail-balanced directed graphs in [37]. However, to the best of our knowledge, the problem of resilient fixed-time cooperative control for MASs over general directed graphs subject to DoS attacks remains to be addressed. This serves as the motivation for our current work.
