# 5.2 Epidemic models with multi-community

Consider a susceptible-infective (SI) model for the epidemic evolution across n networks of individuals,

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} x _ {i, t + 1} = \left[ (1 + \beta s _ {i, t}) x _ {i, t} + \sum_ {j \neq i} \alpha s _ {i, t} x _ {j, t} - \bar {u} _ {i, t} + \eta_ {i, t + 1} \right] _ {+} \\ s _ {i, t} = N - x _ {i, t}, \end{array} \right. \tag {36}
$$

where state $x _ { i , t }$ and $s _ { i , t }$ represent the levels of infective and susceptible in network i at time t, respectively. The constant N is the number of individuals in each network, and $\alpha , \beta \in \mathbb { R }$ are the intra-network and crossnetwork infection rates. For each network $i \in [ n ]$ , the action $\bar { u } _ { i , t }$ represents a controlled removal rate, and the noise sequence $\{ \eta _ { i , t } \}$ is i.i.d. Gaussian with distribution ${ \mathcal { N } } ( 0 , \sigma ^ { 2 } )$ . Additionally, the operator $[ \cdot ] _ { + } : \mathbb { R } \to$ R is defined by $[ z ] _ { + } = z { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } 0 \leq z \leq N , [ z ] _ { + } = N { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } z > N$ , and $[ z ] _ { + } = \mathrm { \bar { 0 } }$ otherwise.

Without loss of generality, we consider the case $n = 2$ with a complete graph. 1 , and define $\boldsymbol { x } _ { t } = [ x _ { 1 , t } , x _ { 2 , t } ] ^ { \top }$ , $\boldsymbol { u } _ { t } = [ x _ { 1 , t } ^ { 2 } , x _ { 2 , t } ^ { 2 } , x _ { 1 , t } x _ { 2 , t } , \bar { u } _ { 1 , t } , \bar { u } _ { 2 , t } ] ^ { \top } , \eta _ { t } = [ \eta _ { 1 , t } , \eta _ { 2 , t } ] ^ { \top }$ . Let

$$
A ^ {*} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} \beta N & \alpha N \\ \alpha N & \beta N \end{array} \right], B ^ {*} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c c} - \beta & 0 & - \alpha & - 1 & 0 \\ 0 & - \beta & - \alpha & 0 & - 1 \end{array} \right].
$$

Then the dynamics (36) can be rewritten as $x _ { t + 1 } =$ $[ A ^ { * } x _ { t } + B ^ { * } u _ { t } + \eta _ { t + 1 } ] _ { + }$ , where the operator $[ \cdot ] _ { + }$ is applied elementwise. Accordingly, we define the system parameter as $\theta ^ { * } = [ A ^ { * } , B ^ { * } ] ^ { \top }$ , which encodes the graph topology, the infection rates, and the community sizes.

By an argument similar to that in Example 3, noise entering inside the nonlinear map can be recast as an equivalent additive external noise. Specifically, the system (36) can be rewritten as

$$x _ {t + 1} = h (A ^ {*} x _ {t} + B ^ {*} u _ {t}) + w _ {t + 1}, \tag {37}$$
