Substituting this into (41) and denoting $\Delta = ( I _ { m } - \mathbf { A } D ) ^ { - 1 } \mathbf { A }$ the system turns into the FRNN with synaptic matrix $W _ { n e t } \colon$

$$\dot {x} = - x + \Psi ((W + B \Delta C) x), \tag {44}$$

which proves (i). Now, if the system (44) is S-contracting,

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - 2 (1 - c) P & P + (W _ {n e t}) ^ {\top} Q \\ P + Q W _ {n e t} & - 2 Q \end{array} \right] \preceq 0. \tag {45}
$$

Any principal submatrix of a negative semidefinite matrix must also be negative semidefinite. Extracting the ith diagonal block from each of the four entries results in the inequality

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} - 2 (1 - c) P _ {i i} & P _ {i i} + (W _ {n e t}) _ {i i} ^ {\top} Q _ {i} \\ P _ {i i} + Q _ {i} (W _ {n e t}) _ {i i} & - 2 Q _ {i} \end{array} \right] \preceq 0. \tag {46}
$$

Note that $( W _ { n e t } ) _ { i i } = W _ { i } + B _ { i } \Delta _ { i i } C _ { i }$ , where $\Delta _ { i i }$ is the ith diagonal block of $\Delta$ . Therefore, an FRNN with synaptic matrix $W _ { i } + B _ { i } \Delta _ { i i } C _ { i }$ is S-contracting, with $P = P _ { i i } , Q = Q _ { i }$ .

Remark 21: Theorem 20 shows that an interconnection of FRNNs can be S-contracting only if each FRNN is Scontracting either independently or via static output feedback. When there is no feed-through $( D _ { i } = 0 )$ and no self-loops $( A _ { i i } \ = \ 0 )$ , output feedback is unavailable, so each FRNN must be independently S-contracting. Parallel results hold for the interconnected HNNs (19), as well as in discrete time.

Remark 22: Interconnections of RNNs are particularly useful in control design [11]. Theorem 20 shows that a static output interconnection involving open-loop unstable subsystems can only be contracting if every such subsystem is stabilized by static output feedback, which is an inherently nonconvex problem. This highlights the practical utility of our separation principle (Theorem 3), which relies on a dynamic observerbased controller that can be designed via LMI feasibility.

Homogeneous networks: Next, we discuss the special case where the subsystems are identical. Such interconnections arise in graph neural network architectures, such as implicit graph neural networks [21], continuous graph neural ODEs [42], and single-layer graph convolutional ODEs [29]. Consider the Graph FRNN:

$$\dot {X} = - X + \Psi (W X A + B U). \tag {47}$$
