# III. A NONLINEAR SEPARATION PRINCIPLE

Certifying the stability of an observer-based feedback loop is a fundamental challenge in nonlinear control. While the classical separation principle elegantly resolves this for linear systems, no general analog exists in the nonlinear setting as dynamic interconnections of nonlinear systems do not inherently preserve stability properties. Existing nonlinear separation results typically rely on time-scale-separation arguments [2], [39] and high-gain observers whose well-known drawbacks are peaking and, in some cases, finite escape times [16].

Departing from high-gain methods, we adopt a contractiontheoretic framework. We seek to characterize the closed loop stability of the interconnection of an open loop unstable plant with an observer and a state-feedback controller. Standard interconnection theorems in contraction (e.g., [7, Theorem 3.23]) require that each subsystem is contracting, precluding their application to open-loop unstable plants. The node-wise contraction assumption is inherent to contraction criteria based on log-norm bounds of the network Jacobian, as implied by [7, Theorem 2.32]. The following theorem shows, that when an open-loop unstable plant is rendered contracting by a controller and observed through a contracting observer, the closed-loop system – although not contracting itself – still preserves a key property of contracting systems: the global exponential stability of the equilibrium. Denote for brevity

$$
\beta (t; c _ {K}, c _ {O}) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \frac {e ^ {- c _ {O} t} - e ^ {- c _ {K} t}}{c _ {K} - c _ {O}}, & c _ {K} \neq c _ {O}, \\ t e ^ {- c _ {K} t}, & c _ {K} = c _ {O}, \end{array} \right. \tag {7}
$$

Theorem 3 (Separation principle for contracting controllers and observers): Given maps $F \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { m }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $h \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \to$ $\mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ , consider the control system ${ \dot { x } } = F ( x , u )$ with output $y =$ $h ( x )$ . Let $L \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { m } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { p } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ be an observer, and let $K \colon \mathbb { R } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ be a controller. Given norms $\| \cdot \| _ { \mathcal { X } }$ and $\| \cdot \| _ { \mathcal { O } }$ on $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and ${ \textbf { a } } \parallel \cdot \parallel _ { \mathcal { U } }$ on $\mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , assume the following conditions:
