When the system (1) is linear and $\pi _ { \boldsymbol { \theta } } ( \cdot )$ is a linear statefeedback controller, ${ \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } } \pi _ { \theta } ( x _ { t } ) = K ( \theta ) x _ { t }$ , the finitegain $L _ { q }$ stability condition is equivalent to requiring that $\overset { \cdot } { A } + B \overset { \cdot } { K } ( \theta )$ be Schur stable, which is a standard assumption in linear adaptive control (see, e.g., Duncan et al. (1999); Liu et al. (2025)). Assumption 4 extends this stabilizability requirement to the nonlinear setting.

Assumption 4 The control design mechanism π is finite-gain $L _ { \gamma }$ -stabilizing, where the constant γ is given in Assumption 2. Moreover, there exist a constant $L _ { 1 } > 0$ such that for all $\theta _ { 1 } , \theta _ { 2 } \in \Theta$ and $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ ,

$$\left\| \pi_ {\theta_ {1}} (x) - \pi_ {\theta_ {2}} (x) \right\| \leq L _ {1} \| \theta_ {1} - \theta_ {2} \| \| x \|. \tag {26}$$

Remark 2 Assumption 4 requires knowing a parameterdependent stabilizing controller $\pi _ { \boldsymbol { \theta } } ( \cdot )$ for each $\theta \in \Theta$ , rather than directly knowing a controller that stabilizes the true system. The former is more realistic: since the true parameter $\theta ^ { * }$ is unknown, it is generally difficult to directly specify a stabilizing controller for the true system (which depends on $\bar { \theta ^ { * } ) }$ ; however, one can often characterize how to design a stabilizing controller πθ(·) as a function of θ, should θ be known. To illustrate, consider the linear case where (1) reduces to $x _ { t + 1 } \ = \ A x _ { t } \ + \ B u _ { t } \ + \ w _ { t + 1 }$ . For each stabilizable pair $\bar { \theta } \overset { \cdot } { = } [ A , B ] ^ { \top }$ , the $L Q G$ control design mechanism $\pi _ { \theta } ^ { \mathrm { L Q G } } ( x _ { t } ) ~ = ~ - R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \top } P ( \theta ) x _ { t } ,$ πθ , where $P ( \theta )$ solves the discrete-time algebraic Riccati equation associated with $\theta = [ A , B ] ^ { \top }$ , renders the closed-loop system finite-gain $L _ { \gamma } { - } s t a b l e$ . In other words, while we may not know which specific controller stabilizes the true system, we do know how to construct one given any stabilizable θ.

Assumption 4 implies that the reference feedback law $u _ { t } ^ { * } = \pi _ { \theta ^ { * } } ( x _ { t } )$ stabilizes the true system (1). However, when $\theta ^ { * }$ is unknown, it is not obvious whether the designed adaptive controller (23), $\mathrm { i . e . , } u _ { t } = \pi _ { \hat { \theta } _ { t - 1 } } ( x _ { t } ) + v _ { t }$ , still stabilizes the true system. In what follows, Subsections 4.1 and 4.2 establish the stability of the closed-loop system (25) under adaptive control (23) and analyze the long-run tracking performance of the resulting state trajectory, respectively.
