# V. NUMERICAL EXAMPLES

The following first two examples evaluate the stability of a 2-agent system with objective misspecifications in the MPG controllers. The action sets are constrained by lower and upper bounds with local and coupled constraints.

Numerical Example 1. A stable 2-player system with misspecifications is numerically exemplified for MPG horizon K=5, $\mathrm { A = } [ 0 . 1 \ 0 . 0 3 ; \ 0 \ 0 . 0 5 ]$ and $\mathrm { B } { = } [ 0 . 5 \ 0 . 3 ; \ 0 . 2 \ 0 . 5 ]$ . Theorem 1 is satisfied and the system becomes stable. The results are given in Fig. 3. Additionally, simulations where stability was achieved in the presence of misspecifications without satisfying Theorem 1 were observed.

Numerical Example 2. An unstable 2-player system with misspecifications is numerically exemplified for MPG horizon $\mathrm { K } { = } 5 , \mathrm { A } { = } [ 0 . 9 5 0 . 4 ; { - } 0 . 3 0 . 9 ]$ and $\mathbf { B } { = } [ 0 . 1 \ 0 . 2 ; - 0 . 3 \ 0 . 8 ]$ Theorem 1 is not satisfied and the system stays unstable. The results are given in Fig. 4.

Numerical Example 3. The sensitivity of the equilibrium point for a 2-player stable system with misspecifications quantified by varying θ values is exemplified below using the same LTI system as Numerical Example 1. The cost matrices are quantified such that $g _ { 1 } ^ { ( 1 ) } \ = \ \stackrel { \cdot } { g _ { 1 } ^ { A } }$ and $g _ { 1 } ^ { ( 2 ) } ~ =$ $\theta g _ { 1 } ^ { A } + ( 1 - \theta ) g _ { 1 } ^ { B }$ . Similarly, $g _ { 2 } ^ { ( 1 ) } = g _ { 2 } ^ { \dot { A } }$ and g2 $g _ { 2 } ^ { ( 2 ) } = \theta g _ { 2 } ^ { A } + ( 1 -$ (2) $\theta ) \bar { g } _ { 2 } ^ { B }$ . Therefore, $x ^ { \star } ( \theta = 0 )$ is the equilibrium point where both players use the same game model $G ^ { A }$ in their MPG controllers resulting in no misspecification, and $x ^ { \star } ( \theta = 1 )$ ) is when player 2 adopts $G ^ { B }$ while player 1 preserves $G ^ { A }$ resulting in the highest misspecification. θ is varied from 0 to 1 in 0.1 increments, and the corresponding $x ^ { * } ( \theta )$ points are plotted in Figure 5. It is observed that $\nabla _ { { \boldsymbol { \theta } } } { \boldsymbol { x } } ^ { * } ( { \boldsymbol { \theta } } )$ increases as θ increases, equivalent to the conjectured games becoming more misspecified from each other and the real game. The gradient is also affected by the values chosen for the cost function matrices for both agents in $g ^ { A }$ and $g ^ { B }$ .
