# REFERENCES

[1] L.
Zhang, G.
Pantazis, S.
Han, and S.
Grammatico, “An Efficient Riskaware Branch MPC for Automated Driving that is Robust to Uncertain Vehicle Behaviors,” in 2024 IEEE 63rd Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Dec.
2024, pp.
8207–8212, iSSN: 2576-2370.
[2] A.-C.
Papuc, L.
Peters, S.
Sun, L.
Ferranti, and J.
Alonso-Mora, “Strategizing at Speed: A Learned Model Predictive Game for Multi-Agent Drone Racing,” Feb.
2026, arXiv:2602.06925 [cs].
[3] I.
Atzeni, L.
G.
Ordonez, G.
Scutari, D.
P.
Palomar, and J.
R.
Fonollosa, “Demand-Side Management via Distributed Energy Generation and Storage Optimization,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol.
4, no.
2, pp.
866–876, Jun.
2013.
[4] T.
Basar and G.
Olsder, Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory, ser.
Classics in Applied Mathematics.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1999.
[5] J.
Rawlings, D.
Mayne, and M.
Diehl, Model Predictive Control: Theory, Computation, and Design.
Nob Hill Publishing, 2020.
[6] D.
Fridovich-Keil, E.
Ratner, L.
Peters, A.
D.
Dragan, and C.
J.
Tomlin, “Efficient Iterative Linear-Quadratic Approximations for Nonlinear Multi-Player General-Sum Differential Games,” in 2020 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), May 2020, pp.
1475–1481, iSSN: 2577-087X.
[7] S.
Hall, G.
Belgioioso, F.
Dorfler, and D.
Liao-McPherson, “Stability ¨ Certificates for Receding Horizon Games,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pp.
1–8, 2025.
[8] E.
Benenati and S.
Grammatico, “Linear-Quadratic Dynamic Games as Receding-Horizon Variational Inequalities,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pp.
1–16, 2025.
[9] B.
L.
Ferguson, C.
Maheshwari, M.
Wu, and S.
Sastry, “Game-to-Real Gap: Quantifying the Effect of Model Misspecification in Network Games,” Jan.
2026, arXiv:2601.16367 [cs].
[10] K.
Zhang, Z.
Yang, and T.
Bas¸ar, “Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning: A Selective Overview of Theories and Algorithms,” Apr.
2021, arXiv:1911.10635 [cs].
[11] H.
I.
Khan, J.
Li, and D.
Fridovich-Keil, “What Do Agents Think One Another Want?
Level-2 Inverse Games for Inferring Agents’ Estimates of Others’ Objectives,” Oct.
2025, arXiv:2508.03824 [cs].
[12] A.
Dreves and M.
Gerdts, “A generalized Nash equilibrium approach for optimal control problems of autonomous cars,” Optimal Control Applications and Methods, vol.
39, no.
1, pp.
