# I. INTRODUCTION

a) Motivation: A central problem in control theory is the design of controllers which utilize sensor data to achieve certain objectives, such as stabilization, reference tracking, or optimal control based on some cost function. In linear systems, a separation principle enables the independent design of observers for state reconstruction, and full state feedback controllers. However, in nonlinear systems, a general counterpart remains elusive. Existing approaches typically rely on time-scale separation and high-gain observer constructions [2], [39], or are restricted to specific system classes such as Lur’e

This work was in part supported by AFOSR project FA9550-22- 1-0059 and by JST FOREST Program Grant Number JPMJFR222E. Anand Gokhale and Francesco Bullo are with the Center for Control, Dynamical Systems, and Computation, UC Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA. email: {anand gokhale,bullo}@ucsb.edu. Anton V. Proskurnikov is with Department of Electronics and Telecommunications, Politecnico di Torino, Italy, 10129. email: anton.p.1982@ieee.org Yu Kawano is with the Graduate School of Advanced Science and Engineering, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan. email: ykawano@hiroshima-u.ac.jp Anand Gokhale thanks Alexander Davydov for fruitful discussions. systems and control-affine dynamics [19], [27], [35]. These methods often impose restrictive structural assumptions and may exhibit undesirable transient behavior, including peaking and sensitivity to noise and model uncertainty [16].

Here, we bridge this gap by establishing a nonlinear separation principle based on contraction theory [7]. A nonlinear system is said to be contracting if any two trajectories of the system approach each other at an exponential rate. While stronger than Lyapunov stability, contraction provides many properties that are desirable in control design. Of particular interest in this work are (i) the existence of a unique globally exponentially stable equilibrium, (ii) robustness via incremental ISS bounds to model errors, and (iii) robust equilibrium tracking errors in time varying environments [13].
