The aforementioned works are primarily concerned with linear-in-parameter systems. In contrast, for nonlinearly parameterized systems, the estimation loss is generally highly nonconvex. As a result, even constructing a consistent parameter estimator is challenging, let alone establishing developing nonlinear adaptive controllers. Recently, motivated by neural-network–type parameterizations, a growing body of work has investigated parameter estimation for nonlinearly parameterized systems (1) under a class of nonconvex objectives (see, e.g., (Foster et al., 2020; Oymak, 2019; Kowshik et al., 2021; Sattar and Oymak, 2022; Zhang and Zhang, 2025)). These studies typically analyze estimation error using data collected from trajectories of an already stabilized dynamical system. Such trajectory data can often be shown to satisfy persistence of excitation(PE) conditions, which are necessary to guarantee consistent parameter estimation. However, adaptive control is inherently more challenging than purely parameter estimation for the nonlinearly parameterized system (1), which remains unresolved, especially when the closed-loop trajectory fails to satisfy the PE conditions. Due to these analytical challenges, only a few works have been devoted to adaptive control for nonlinearly parameterized stochastic systems. Ma (2007) has studied the adaptive bounded-input–bounded-output (BIBO) stabilization problem using a weighted least-squares (WLS)-type algorithm, where the unknown component belongs to a given set which has a finite number of members. Furthermore, Li and Chen (2015) has studied the adaptive stabilization problem for a class of nonlinearly parameterized uncertain systems with a scalar-valued unknown parameter. In the scalar case, they showed that the required PE conditions for parameter estimation actually hold. However, as pointed out by the authors in Li and Chen (2015), “for the multiple-parameter case, the analysis will in general be extremely difficult”.
