# 11.1 INTRODUCTION

The previous chapters were devoted mainly to development of algorithms and analysis of adaptive systems. In this chapter we discuss practical implementation of adaptive controllers. The presentation will be guided by theoretical considerations, but since the issues are quite complicated, theory can cover only part of the problems. Several issues will therefore be solved in an ad hoc manner and verified by extensive experimentation and simulation.

Since an ordinary digital controller is an integral part of an adaptive controller, it is essential to master implementation of conventional controllers. Some aspects of this are covered in Section 11.2. The discussion includes computational delay, sampling, prefiltering and postfiltering, and integrator windup. Automatic design of a controller is another important part of an adaptive controller. In this book we have mostly used simple design methods based on pole placement. In Section 11.3 we discuss how this design method can be modified in several ways to accommodate more complex specifications and to make it more robust. The design technique requires the solution of a Diophantine equation. Efficient numerical methods for doing this are discussed in Section 11.4.

Parameter estimation is another important part of an adaptive controller. Implementation of estimators is discussed in Section 11.5. This includes choice of model structure, data filters, and excitation. The ability of an adaptive controller to track time-varying parameters is an important issue. There are several ways to do this. Two techniques, exponential forgetting and covariance resetting, are discussed in detail. It turns out that exponential forgetting in combination with poor excitation can give rise to an undesirable effect called covariance windup. This phenomenon is discussed in detail together with several ways of avoiding it. The techniques discussed include constant trace algorithms, directional forgetting, and leakage. A technique to make the estimator less sensitive to outliers is also discussed in Section 11.5. It is important to have numerically efficient methods for recursive estimation. Square root algorithms, which are numerically superior to the conventional algorithms, are discussed in Section 11.6.
