# Improved Estimates and Pre-tuning

So far, only two parameters, $K_{u}$ and $T_{u}$ , have been extracted from the relay experiment. Much more information can be obtained. By changing the setpoint during the relay experiment it is possible to determine the static process gain k. The product $kK_{u}$ can then be used to assess the appropriateness of PID control with Ziegler-Nichols tuning. A common rule is that the Ziegler-Nichols method can be used if $2 < kK_{u} < 20$ . Values that are lower than 2 indicate that a control law that admits dead-time compensation should be used. Large values of $kK_{u}$ indicate that improved performance can be obtained with a more complex control algorithm. The relay experiment can also be used to estimate a discrete-time transfer function by using standard system identification methods.

The relay method is ideally suited as a pre-tuner for a more sophisticated adaptive controller. A model such as Eq. (8.4) is very useful to select the sampling period and achievable closed-loop response for an MRAS or an STR. It provides a PID controller that can serve as a backup controller. If the static gain is also determined, the quantity $kK_{u}$ can be used to assess the process dynamics. The ultimate period can be used to obtain an estimate of an appropriate sampling period. Parameter estimates that can serve as initial values in the recursive parameter estimator can be obtained by applying a parameter estimation method to the data from the relay experiments. If an adaptive controller based on a pole placement design is used, the ultimate period can also be used to find appropriate values of desired closed-loop bandwidths.
