# Stochastic Models

The least-squares estimate is biased when it is used on data generated by Eq. (2.12), where the errors $e(i)$ are correlated. The reason is that $E\varphi^{T}(i)e(i) \neq 0$ (compare Eq. (2.13)). A possibility to cope with this problem is to model the correlation of the disturbances and to estimate the parameters describing the correlations. Consider the model

$$A (q) y (t) = B (q) u (t) + C (q) e (t) \tag {2.38}$$

where $A(q)$ , $B(q)$ , and $C(q)$ are polynomials in the forward shift operator and $\{e(t)\}$ is white noise. The parameters of the polynomial C describe the correlation of the disturbance. The model of Eq. (2.38) cannot be converted directly to a regression model, since the variables $\{e(t)\}$ are not known. A regression model can, however, be obtained by suitable approximations. To describe these, introduce

$$\varepsilon (t) = y (t) - \varphi^ {T} (t - 1) \hat {\theta} (t - 1)$$

where

$$
\theta = \left( \begin{array}{c c c c c c c c c} a _ {1} & \dots & a _ {n} & b _ {1} & \dots & b _ {n} & c _ {1} & \dots & c _ {n} \end{array} \right)
\varphi^ {T} (t - 1) = \left(- y (t - 1) \dots - y (t - n) u (t - 1) \dots u (t - n) \varepsilon (t - 1) \dots \varepsilon (t - n)\right)
$$

The variables $e(t)$ are approximated by the prediction errors $\varepsilon(t)$ . The model can then be approximated by

$$y (t) = \varphi^ {T} (t - 1) \theta + e (t)$$

and standard recursive least squares can be applied. The method obtained is called extended least squares (ELS). The equations for updating the estimates are given by

$$\hat {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t - 1) + P (t) \varphi (t - 1) \varepsilon (t) \tag {2.39}P ^ {- 1} (t) = P ^ {- 1} (t - 1) + \varphi (t - 1) \varphi^ {T} (t - 1)$$

(Compare with Theorem 2.3.) Another method of estimating the parameters in Eq. (2.38) is to use Eqs. (2.39) and let the residual be defined by

$$\hat {C} (q) \varepsilon (t) = \hat {A} (q) y (t) - \hat {B} (q) u (t) \tag {2.40}$$

and regression vector $\varphi$ in Eqs. (2.39) be replaced by $\varphi_{f}$ , where

$$\hat {C} (q) \varphi_ {f} (t) = \varphi (t) \tag {2.41}$$

The most recent estimates should be used in these updates. The method obtained is then not truly recursive, since Eqs. (2.41) and (2.40) have to be solved from t = 1 for each measurement. The following approximations can be made:

$$\varepsilon (t) = y (t) - \varphi_ {f} ^ {T} (t - 1) \hat {\theta} (t - 1)$$

This algorithm is called the recursive maximum likelihood (RML) method.
