# Estimation

Several of the recursive estimation methods outlined in Chapter 2 can be used to estimate the coefficients of the A and B polynomials. The equations for recursive least-squares estimation will be used. The process model (3.1) can be written explicitly as

$$
\begin{array}{l} y (t) = - a _ {1} y (t - 1) - a _ {2} y (t - 2) - \dots - a _ {n} y (t - n) \\ + b _ {0} u (t - d _ {0}) + \dots + b _ {m} u (t - d _ {0} - m) \\ \end{array}
$$

Notice that the degree of the system is $\max(n, d_{0} + m)$ . The model is linear in the parameters and can written as

$$y (t) = \varphi^ {T} (t \cdot 1) \theta$$

where

$$
\theta^ {T} = \left( \begin{array}{c c c c c c c} a _ {1} & a _ {2} & \dots & a _ {n} & b _ {0} & \dots & b _ {m} \end{array} \right)

\varphi^ {T} (t - 1) = \left( \begin{array}{c c c c c c} - y (t - 1) & \dots & - y (t - n) & u (t - d _ {0}) & \dots & u (t - d _ {0} - m) \end{array} \right)
$$

The least-squares estimator with exponential forgetting is given by

$$\hat {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t - 1) + K (t) \varepsilon (t)\varepsilon (t) = y (t) - \varphi^ {T} (t - 1) \hat {\theta} (t - 1) \tag {3.22}K (t) = P (t - 1) \varphi (t - 1) (\lambda + \varphi^ {T} (t - 1) P (t - 1) \varphi (t - 1)) ^ {- 1}P (t) = \left(I - K (t) \varphi^ {T} (t - 1)\right) P (t - 1) / \lambda$$

(Compare with Eq. (2.21).) If the input signal to the process is sufficiently exciting and the structure of the estimated model is compatible with the process, the estimates will converge to their true values. It takes $\max(n, m + d_{0})$ sampling periods before the regression vector is defined. In the deterministic case it takes at least $n + m + 1$ additional sampling periods to determine the $n + m + 1$ parameters of the model, assuming that the process input is persistently exciting. It thus takes at least

$$N = n + m + 1 + \max (n, m + d _ {0}) \tag {3.23}$$

sampling periods for the algorithm to converge. With recursive least squares initialized with a large P-matrix it may take a few more steps. Since the process input is generated by feedback, it may be difficult to assert that it is persistently exciting. Presence of process noise may also make convergence much slower. Convergence issues will be discussed further in Chapter 6.
