# 8.3 AUTO-TUNING TECHNIQUES

Several ways to do auto-tuning have been proposed. The most common method is to make a simple experiment on the process. The experiment can be done in open loop or closed loop. In the open-loop experiments the input of the process is excited by a pulse or a couple of steps. A simple process model, for instance of second order, is then estimated by using recursive least squares or some other recursive estimation method. If a second-order process model is estimated, then the PID controller can be used to make pole placement. The speed and the damping of the system are then the design parameters. A popular design method is to choose the controller zeros such that they cancel the two process poles. This gives good responses to setpoint changes, while the response to load disturbances is determined by the open-loop dynamics. The transient response method for automatic tuning of PID regulators is used in products from Yokogawa, Eurotherm, and Honeywell. It is used for pre-tuning in adaptive controllers from Leeds and Northrup and Turnbull Control.

The tuning experiments can also be done in closed loop. A typical example of this is the self-oscillating method of Ziegler and Nichols or its variants. The relay auto-tuner based on self-oscillation is used in products from SattControl and Fisher-Rousemount. In these regulators the tuning is initiated simply by pushing the tuning button. One advantage of making experiments in closed loop is that the output of the process may be kept within reasonable bounds, which can be difficult for processes with integrators if the experiment is done in open loop.

The auto-tuning function is often a built-in feature in standard stand-alone PID controllers. Automatic tuning can also be done by using external equipment. The tuner is then connected to the process and performs an experiment, usually in open loop. The tuner then suggests parameter settings, which are transferred to the PID controller either manually or automatically. Since the external tuner must be able to work with PID controllers from different manufacturers, it is important that the tuner have detailed information about the implementation of the PID algorithm in specific cases.

Another method for auto-tuning is to use an expert system to tune the controller. This is done during normal operation of the process. The expert system waits for setpoint changes or major load disturbances and then evaluates the performance of the closed-loop system. Properties such as damping, period of oscillation, and static gain are estimated. The controller parameters are then changed according to the built-in rules, which mimic the behavior of an experienced control engineer. Pattern recognition or expert system is used in controllers from Foxboro and Fenwal.
