# 6.10 CONCLUSIONS

Analysis of adaptive systems is difficult because they are complicated. A number of different methods have been used to gain insight into the behavior of adaptive systems. The theory is useful to show fundamental limitations of the algorithms and to point out possible ways to improve them.

In this chapter a basic stability theorem has been derived on the basis of standard tools of the theory of difference equations. To show stability and convergence, it is necessary to make quite restrictive assumptions about the system to be controlled. The consequences of violating these assumptions have been analyzed.

It has been shown that analysis of equilibria and local properties around equilibria can be explored by the method of averaging. This method can also be applied to investigate global properties. Averaging can be applied in many different situations. For deterministic problems it can be used for steps and periodic signals. It can also be applied to stochastic signals. Averaging methods have also been applied to analyze what happens when adaptive systems are designed on the basis of simplified models. To apply averaging methods, it is necessary to use small adaptation gains. Unfortunately, there are no good methods to determine analytically how small the gains should be. It is also demonstrated that adaptive systems may have very complex behavior for large adaptation gains. Mechanisms that may lead to instability have been discussed. One mechanism is associated with lack of a parameter equilibrium or local instability of the equilibrium. Other mechanisms are parametric excitation and high adaptation gain. The last two mechanisms can be avoided by choosing a small adaptation gain.
