# Summary of the MRAS Examples

The investigation of the first-order MRAS is summarized in the following table:

<table><tr><td>Inputs</td><td>Exact Model Structure</td><td>Unmodeled Dynamics</td></tr><tr><td>Step command</td><td>Equilibrium set is a half-line.</td><td>Equilibrium set is a line segment. Stability is lost for some initial values.</td></tr><tr><td>Step command + measurement noise</td><td>Solution will move toward a line and then drift along the line.</td><td>Solution will move toward a line and drift along the line until stability is lost.</td></tr><tr><td>Sinusoidal</td><td>Equilibrium set is a point that is independent of the frequency.</td><td>Equilibrium set is a point that depends on the frequency. The equilibrium is unstable for sufficiently high frequencies.</td></tr></table>

Several interesting conclusions can be drawn from the examples. When the input signal is not sufficiently exciting, the equilibrium is a manifold independently of the presence of unmodeled dynamics or disturbances. When there are disturbances, the estimates will drift along the manifold. In the case of unmodeled dynamics the closed-loop system may eventually become unstable. From a methodological point of view the examples give insights that can be derived from equilibrium analysis, which can be carried out with a moderate effort in many cases. We can find out if an equilibrium exists in the sense that the parameters remain constant. Notice that the averaged equations may have an equilibrium even if the exact equations do not. However, it is rarely the case that global analysis can be carried out.
