# Time-Varying Parameters

In the least-squares model (2.1) the parameters $\theta_{i}^{0}$ are assumed to be constant. In several adaptive problems it is of interest to consider the situation in which the parameters are time-varying. Two cases can be covered by simple extensions of the least-squares method. In one such case parameters are assumed to change abruptly but infrequently; in the other case the parameters are changing continuously but slowly. The case of abrupt parameter changes can be covered by resetting. The matrix $P$ in the least-squares algorithm (Theorem 2.3) is then periodically reset to $\alpha I$ , where $\alpha$ is a large number. This implies that the gain $K(t)$ in the estimator becomes large and the estimate can be updated with a larger step. A more sophisticated version is to run $n$ estimators in parallel, which are reset sequentially. The estimate is then chosen by using some decision logic. (See Chapter 6.) The case of slowly time-varying parameters can be covered by relatively simple mathematical models. One pragmatic approach is simply to replace the least-squares criterion of Eq. (2.2) with

$$V (\theta , t) = \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {t} \lambda^ {t - i} (y (i) - \varphi^ {T} (i) \theta) ^ {2} \tag {2.20}$$

where $\lambda$ is a parameter such that $0 < \lambda \leq 1$ . The parameter $\lambda$ is called the forgetting factor or discounting factor. The loss function of Eq. (2.20) implies that a time-varying weighting of the data is introduced. The most recent data is given unit weight, but data that is n time units old is weighted by $\lambda^{n}$ . The method is therefore called exponential forgetting or exponential discounting. By repeating the calculations leading to Theorem 2.3 for the loss function of Eq. (2.20), the following result is obtained.
