# LEMMA 5.3 Property of positive real systems

Let r be a bounded square integrable function, and let $G(s)$ be a transfer function that is positive real. The system whose input-output relation is given by

$$y = r (G (p) r u)$$

is then passive.

Proof: It follows that

$$
\begin{array}{l} \langle y \mid u \rangle = \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} y (\tau) u (\tau) d \tau = \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} (u (\tau) r (\tau)) (G (p) r u) (\tau) d \tau \\ = \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} w (\tau) (G (p) w) (\tau) d \tau = \langle w | G w \rangle \\ \end{array}
$$

where $w = ru$ . Since $G(s)$ is positive real, it follows from Example 5.12 that $\langle w|Gw\rangle \geq 0$ , which proves the result.

By invoking the passivity theorem (Theorem 5.8) we can now obtain an alternative proof of Theorem 5.5. Figure 5.18 shows that the model-reference system can be viewed as a feedback connection of two systems. One system is linear with the transfer function $G$ . It has the signal $(\theta - \theta^0) u_c$ as the input and the model error as the output. The other system has the model error $e$ as the input and the quantity $-( \theta - \theta^0) u_c$ as the output. Since an integrator is positive real, it follows from Lemma 5.3 that the system $H$ is passive. If the transfer function $G$ is proper and strictly positive real, it follows from Example 5.12 that $G(s)$ is output strictly proper. The passivity theorem (Theorem 5.8) then implies that the closed-loop system is BIBO stable. In Fig. 5.18 there are no external inputs, as in Fig. 5.16. The system in Fig. 5.18 may have initial conditions, however, because the process and the model may have different initial conditions. The integrator may also have an initial condition that can be thought of as being generated by an external input signal. Such an input signal can always be chosen to be zero for $t \geq 0$ . We thus have a situation covered by Theorem 5.6, where the input signal $u$ is bounded in $L_2$ . The error $e(t)$ goes to zero as $t$ goes to infinity. Notice that the MRAS is stable for all values of $\gamma > 0$ when the SPR condition is satisfied. This implies that the adaptation can be made arbitrarily fast.
