where $\{e(t)\}$ is a sequence of uncorrelated $N(0,1)$ random variables. Determine the least-squares estimate of the parameters a and b. Also determine the covariance of the estimate. Discuss the behavior of the covariance as the number of estimates increases.

2.9 Consider the model in Problem 2.8, but assume continuous-time observation, where $e(t)$ is white noise, that is, a random function with covariance $\delta(t)$ . Determine the estimate and its covariance. Analyze the behavior of the covariance for large observation intervals.

2.10 Consider data generated by

$$y (t) = b + e (t) \quad t = 1, 2, \dots , N$$

where $\{e(t); t = 1, 3, 4, \ldots\}$ is a sequence of independent random variables. Furthermore, assume that there is a large error at t = 2, that is,

$$e (2) = a$$

where $a$ is a large number. Assume that the parameter $b$ in the model

$$y (t) = b$$

is estimated by least squares. Determine the estimate obtained, and discuss how it depends on a. (This is a simple example that shows how sensitive the least-squares estimate is with respect to occasional large errors.)

2.11 Consider Example 2.12. Analyze the asymptotic properties of the P-matrix and explain the simulation in Figs. 2.7(a) and 2.7(b).

2.12 Show that Eq. (2.11) minimizes the weighted least-squares loss function (2.10).

2.13 Consider Eqs. (2.21) with the initial condition $\hat{\theta}(0) = \theta_0$ and $P(0) = P_0$ . Show that $\hat{\theta}(t)$ minimizes the criterion

$$V (\theta , t) = \frac {1}{2} \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {t} \lambda^ {t - i} (y (i) - \varphi^ {T} (i) \theta) ^ {2} + \frac {\lambda^ {t}}{2} (\theta - \theta_ {0}) ^ {T} P _ {0} ^ {1} (\theta - \theta_ {0})$$

Compare Theorem 2.4.

2.14 Consider the following model of time-varying parameters:

$$\theta (t) = \Phi_ {v} \theta (t - 1) + v (t)y (t) = \varphi^ {T} (t) \theta (t) + e (t)$$

where $\{v(t), t = 1, 2, \ldots\}$ and $\{e(t), t = 1, 2, \ldots\}$ are sequences of independent, equally distributed random vectors with zero mean values and covariances $R_{1}$ and $R_{2}$ , respectively. Show that the recursive estimates of $\theta$ are given by
