# 9.1 INTRODUCTION

In many situations it is known how the dynamics of a process change with the operating conditions of the process. One source for the change in dynamics may be nonlinearities that are known. It is then possible to change the parameters of the controller by monitoring the operating conditions of the process. This idea is called gain scheduling, since the scheme was originally used to accommodate changes in process gain only. Gain scheduling is a nonlinear feedback of special type; it has a linear controller whose parameters are changed as a function of operating conditions in a preprogrammed way. The idea of relating the controller parameters to auxiliary variables is old, but the hardware needed to implement it easily was not available until recently. To implement gain scheduling with analog techniques, it is necessary to have function generators and multipliers. Such components have been quite expensive to design and operate. Gain scheduling has thus been used only in special cases, such as in autopilots for high-performance aircraft. Gain scheduling is easy to implement in computer-controlled systems, provided that there is support in the available software.

Gain scheduling based on measurements of operating conditions of the process is often a good way to compensate for variations in process parameters or known nonlinearities of the process. It is controversial whether a system with gain scheduling should be considered an adaptive system or not, because the parameters are changed in an open-loop or preprogrammed fashion. If we use the informal definition of adaptive controllers given in Section 1.1, gain scheduling can be regarded as an adaptive controller. Gain scheduling is a very useful technique for reducing the effects of parameter variations. In fact it is the foremost method for handling parameter variations in flight control systems. There are also many commercial process control systems in which gain scheduling can be used to compensate for static and dynamic nonlinearities. Split-range controllers that use different sets of parameters for different ranges of the process output can be regarded as a special type of gain-scheduling controllers.

Section 9.2 gives the principle of gain scheduling. Different ways to design systems with gain scheduling are treated in Section 9.3, and Section 9.4 gives a method based on nonlinear transformations. Section 9.5 describes some applications of gain scheduling. Conclusions are given in Section 9.6.
