# 7.2 MULTISTEP DECISION PROBLEMS

The idea of decision under uncertainty is discussed in this section. There are many situations in which decisions must be taken despite uncertainties about the processes or the statistics. One example is route planning, in which the traffic will influence the time it takes to get from one point to another. Another example is testing of medical drugs. In investigating the effect of a new drug, it is necessary to plan the test, but it is also important to have the possibility to go back to a standard procedure if the patient is not responding well to the new treatment. The characteristic features of these types of problems are that there are uncertainties about the possible outcome of different control actions. Further, there is a sequence of control actions to be taken. At each time, feedback is used to update or change the procedure. One of the first stochastic adaptive problems of this kind that was solved can be represented by the classical two-armed bandit (TAB) problem. This is a typical problem of sequential design of statistical experiments.

The TAB problem can be described in the following way. A player is faced with two slot machines, I and II. If machine I is played the gain is one unit with probability p; machine II gives a gain of one unit with probability q. In the simplest case, p is known and q is unknown and is chosen before each game of length N according to a given probability distribution. During the game the unknown quantity q has to be estimated, and the player must decide at each step which machine to play to maximize the total gain of each game of N plays.
