# THEOREM 6.5 Property of RLS

Let the recursive least squares be applied to data generated by Eq. (6.21). Let $P(0)$ be positive definite and let $\hat{\theta}(0)$ be bounded. Assume that

$$\beta (t) I \leq \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {t} \varphi (k) \varphi^ {T} (k)$$

where $\beta(t)$ goes to infinity. Then the estimate converges to $\theta^{0}$ .

This discussion shows that in the deterministic case it is possible to obtain parameter estimators that converge in a finite number of steps. The key assumption is that the regressors are linearly independent, so $\sum\varphi(k)\varphi^{T}(k)$ is of full rank. When the parameters are changing, a least-squares estimator, in which the covariance matrix P is regularly reset to $\alpha I$ , is a good implementation. This procedure is called covariance resetting. To obtain an estimate that reacts rapidly to parameter changes, it is also possible to have several estimators in parallel, which are reset sequentially.

Results similar to Theorem 6.3 can also be established for the least-squares algorithm and several of its variants. The key is to replace function $V(t)$ in Theorem 6.3 by

$$V (t) = \tilde {\theta} ^ {T} (t) P ^ {- 1} (t) \tilde {\theta} (t)$$

and add assumptions that guarantee that the eigenvalues of $P$ stay bounded. One way to do this is to use the constant trace algorithm (see Section 11.5).

So far, only the general model (6.21) has been discussed. The properties of estimates of parameters of discrete-time transfer functions will now be considered. The uniqueness of the estimates is first explored. For this purpose we assume that the data is actually generated by

$$A ^ {0} (q) y (t) = B ^ {0} (q) u (t) + e (t + n) \tag {6.29}$$

where $A^{0}$ and $B^{0}$ are relatively prime. If e = 0, $\deg A > \deg A^{0}$ , and $\deg B > \deg B^{0}$ , it follows from Theorem 2.1 that the estimate is not unique because the columns of the matrix $\Phi$ are linearly dependent. Theorem 2.10 gives conditions for uniqueness of the least-squares estimate.
