# Parameter Convergence of Gradient Algorithms

We now give conditions for the estimates to converge to the true parameter values. Notice that to pose such a problem, it is necessary to assume that data is generated by a model that is compatible with the model used to formulate the estimate. Parameter convergence is closely related to system identification. The properties of identifiability and persistency of excitation play an essential role. The convergence rate depends on the algorithm used and the amount of excitation. We first consider the gradient algorithm, which is simpler than the least-squares algorithm, although it converges at a considerably slower rate. A typical projection or gradient algorithm is given by Eqs. (6.22), where $\alpha \geq 0$ and $0 < \gamma < 2$ . The estimation error is given by

$$\tilde {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t) - \theta^ {0} = A (t - 1) \tilde {\theta} (t - 1) \tag {6.23}$$

where

$$A (t - 1) = I - \frac {\gamma \varphi (t) \varphi^ {T} (t)}{\alpha + \varphi^ {T} (t) \varphi (t)}$$

The problem of analyzing convergence rates is thus equivalent to analyzing the stability of Eq. (6.23). Notice that

$$A (t - 1) \varphi (t) = \left(I - \frac {\gamma \varphi (t) \varphi^ {T} (t)}{\alpha + \varphi^ {T} (t) \varphi (t)}\right) \varphi (t) = \varphi (t) \left(1 - \frac {\gamma \varphi^ {T} (t) \varphi (t)}{\alpha + \varphi^ {T} (t) \varphi (t)}\right)$$

The second factor on the right-hand side is a scalar. This implies that the vector $\varphi(t)$ is an eigenvector to $A(t-1)$ with an eigenvalue that is less than 1. The eigenvalue is zero for $\gamma=1$ and $\alpha=0$ . The following lemma is useful to analyze Eq. (6.23).
