# 4.7 CONCLUSIONS

This chapter has reviewed different self-tuning regulators. The basic idea is to make a separation between the estimation of the unknown parameters of the process and the design of the controller. The estimated parameters are assumed to be equal to the true parameters in making the design of the controller. It is sometimes of interest to include the uncertainties of the parameter estimates in the design. Such controllers are discussed in Chapter 7. By combining different estimation schemes and design methods, it is possible to derive self-tuners with different properties. In this chapter, only the basic ideas and the asymptotic properties are discussed. The convergence of the estimates and the stability of the closed-loop system are discussed in Chapter 6.

The most important aspect of self-tuning regulators is the issue of parameterization. A reparameterization can be achieved by using the process model and the desired closed-loop response. The goal of the reparameterization is to make a direct estimation of the controller parameters, which usually implies that the new model should be linear in the controller parameters.

Only a few of the proposed self-tuning algorithms have been treated in this chapter. Different combinations of estimation methods and underlying control problems give algorithms with different properties. One goal of the chapter has been to give a feel for how self-tuning algorithms can be developed and analyzed. It is important that the desired closed-loop specifications are carefully chosen in applying a self-tuner. A design method that is unsuitable when the process is known will not become better when the process is unknown.

It is also possible to derive self-tuning regulators for multi-input, multi-output (MIMO) systems. The MIMO case is more difficult to analyze. One main difficulty is to define what the necessary a priori knowledge is in the MIMO case. It is quite straightforward to derive a self-tuning algorithm corresponding to the generalized direct self-tuning regulator for the restricted case when the delays between the different inputs and outputs are known.
