# 7.7 CONCLUSIONS

Optimal multistep controllers have been derived by using stochastic control theory. The solution is defined through the Bellman equation. This functional equation is difficult to solve even for very simple systems. The optimal solution has some interesting properties; it makes a compromise between good control and good estimation by introducing probing actions. This dual effect is of great importance, since it introduces an active learning feature into the controller. It is important to preserve this dual feature when suboptimal controllers are considered. The cautious or one-step controller does not have any active learning; the control may instead be turned off when the parameter uncertainties become too large. One important question is whether it is worth the effort to look at more elaborate control structures than the certainty equivalence controllers. The self-tuning regulators perform very well, as can be seen in Chapters 3, 4, and 6. The extra computations are not too extensive in several of the suboptimal dual controllers discussed in Section 7.5. This indicates that active learning can easily be included.

There are two situations in which dual control can pay off. One is when the time horizon is very short, in which case it is important to get good parameter estimates immediately. Areas in which this is the case are economic systems and control of missiles. The other situation in which dual features are important is when the parameters are varying rapidly and when the $b_{0}$ parameter can change sign, as in the simulations given in Section 7.6. Grinders are one type of physical process in which the gain may change sign. Grinders are common, for instance, in the mining, pulp, and paper industries.

Even if the optimal dual controller is impossible to calculate for realistic processes, it gives important hints about how to make sensible modifications of certainty equivalence and cautious controllers.
