It is reasonable to assume that if the adaptation rate is small, the parameter estimates will change more slowly than the other variables in a system. The closed-loop system can then be viewed as having different time scales. This has been emphasized in the descriptions of both the self-tuning regulator and the model reference adaptive controller. The analysis can then be simplified by considering the slow and fast modes separately. Averaging analysis is a good analytical tool for this. A short presentation of this technique is given in Section 6.6. A significant advantage of the averaging technique is that it makes it possible to reduce the dimensionality of the problem to the number of parameters in the algorithm. The averaging method also makes it possible to explore the behavior in detail. A drawback of the averaging results is that they hold for small adaptation gains but the theory does not give quantitative results about smallness.

It is a characteristic feature of feedback that a controller can often be designed by using a simplified model of a real process. This is one of the reasons why automatic control has been so successful in applications. So far, we have analyzed the behavior of some adaptive algorithms under the simplifying assumption that the structure of the process is the same as the model used to design the adaptive controller. Having obtained the tool of averaging, we are in a position to investigate the consequences of the simplifying assumptions made in the earlier sections, and we can explore how adaptive systems behave in the presence of unmodeled dynamics, that is, when the order of the process is different from that of the model used to derive the adaptive controller. Analysis of several examples in Section 6.7 leads us to various modifications of the algorithms that will improve their robustness to unmodeled dynamics.

In Section 6.8 we show that averaging techniques can be used to analyze stochastic self-tuning regulators. The equilibrium points of the algorithms and their local behavior can often be obtained without too much effort. In Section 6.9, different ways are discussed to make the adaptive algorithms robust with respect to the assumptions made in the idealized cases.
