# EXAMPLE 11.4 Fitting low-order models to high-order systems

Consider a process with transfer function $G(s)$ . Assume that one attempts to model the system by a first-order system with transfer function

$$\hat {G} (s) = \frac {b}{s + a}$$

If the input signal is sinusoidal with frequency $\omega_{0}$ , it is possible to get a perfect fit with finite values of the parameters if $\operatorname{Im}\{G(i\omega_{0})\} \neq 0$ . Straightforward calculations show that $\hat{G}(i\omega_{0}) = G(i\omega_{0})$ if the parameters are chosen to be

$$a = - \frac {\omega_ {o} \operatorname{Re} \left\{G (i \omega_ {o}) \right\}}{\operatorname{Im} \left\{G (i \omega_ {o}) \right\}}b = - \frac {\omega_ {o} | G (i \omega_ {o}) | ^ {2}}{\operatorname{Im} \left\{G (i \omega_ {o}) \right\}}$$

The transfer function of the model will then fit the data perfectly, but the parameters obtained depend on $\omega_{ij}$ . The parameter values may change significantly with the frequency of the input signal.

An interesting property of adaptive systems is that the parameters are estimated in closed loop. This implies that the simple model in the adaptive controller is fitted with the actual signals generated by the feedback. It explains intuitively the self-tuning property.

Another important observation is that the difficulty in on-line parameter estimation increases significantly with the number of parameters in the model. With many parameters the requirements on excitation also increase. For this purpose it is useful to try to reduce the number of unknown parameters as much as possible. This can be done by using a priori knowledge. This is often expressed in continuous-time models. The results are also strongly application dependent. Examples of this are given among the problems in the end of this chapter. Models consisting of low-order dynamics and time delays have proved very useful in process control. Such models can be represented by pulse transfer functions of the form

$$H _ {1} (z) = \frac {b _ {0} z + b _ {1}}{z ^ {d} \left(z + a _ {1}\right)} \tag {11.15}$$

or

$$H _ {2} (z) = \frac {b _ {0} z ^ {2} + b _ {1} z + b _ {2}}{z ^ {d} \left(z ^ {2} + a _ {1} z + a _ {2}\right)} \tag {11.16}$$

where the time delay $\tau$ is between dh and $dh + h$ . Equation (11.16) can also represent second-order oscillatory systems. More b parameters can be included if the time delay is uncertain. In many cases it is known a priori that there are integrators in the model. This leads to transfer functions that contain the factor z - 1 in the denominator.
