# A Modified Design Procedure

The pole placement procedure can be modified to take disturbances into account. In many cases the important disturbances have known characteristics. This can be captured by assuming that the disturbance v in the model (3.1) is generated by the dynamical system

$$A _ {d} v = e \tag {3.37}$$

where e is a pulse, a set of widely spread pulses, white noise, or the equivalent continuous-time concepts. For example, a step disturbance is generated in discrete-time systems by

$$A _ {d} (q) = q - 1$$

and in continuous-time systems by

$$A _ {d} (p) = p$$

With the controller of Eq. (3.2) we find

$$y = \frac {B T}{A R + B S} u _ {c} + \frac {B R}{A _ {d} (A R + B S)} e \tag {3.38}u = \frac {A T}{A R + B S} u _ {c} - \frac {B S}{A _ {d} (A R + B S)} e$$

The closed-loop characteristic polynomial thus contains the disturbance dynamics as a factor. This polynomial typically has roots on the stability boundary or in the unstable region. It follows from Eqs. (3.38) that to maintain a finite output in case of these disturbances, $A_{d}$ must be a factor of R. This would make y finite, but the controlled input u may be infinite. This is, of course, necessary to compensate for an infinite disturbance.

It has already been mentioned that the Diophantine equation has many solutions. Compare with Eqs. (3.14). If $R^{0}$ and $S^{0}$ are solutions to the Diophantine equation

$$A R ^ {0} + B S ^ {0} = A _ {c} ^ {0}$$

it follows that

$$R = X R ^ {0} + Y B \tag {3.39}S = X S ^ {0} - Y A$$

satisfies the equation

$$A R + B S = X A _ {c} ^ {0}$$

If a controller $R^{0}$ $S^{0}$ that gives the characteristic polynomial $A_{c}^{0}$ has been obtained, we can thus obtain a controller with characteristic polynomial $X A_{c}^{0}$ by using the controller (3.39). Suppose that we have designed a controller $R^{0}$ and $S^{0}$ and that we would like to have a new controller in which $R = R'A_{d}$ . We then choose a stable polynomial X that represents the additional closed-loop poles, and we determine $R'$ and Y such that

$$\boldsymbol {R} = A _ {d} \boldsymbol {R} ^ {\prime} = X \boldsymbol {R} ^ {0} + Y \boldsymbol {B} \tag {3.40}$$

The new controller is then given by Eqs. (3.39).
