# Automatic Tuning

The most widespread applications are in automatic tuning of controllers. By automatic tuning we mean that the parameters of a standard controller, for instance a PID controller, are tuned automatically at the demand of the operator. After the tuning, the parameters are kept constant. Practically all controllers can benefit from tools for automatic tuning. This will drastically simplify the use of controllers. Practically all adaptive techniques can be used for automatic tuning. There are also many special techniques that can be used for this purpose. Single-loop controllers and distributed systems for process control are important application areas. Most of these controllers are of the PID type. This is a vast application area because there are millions of controllers of this type in use. Many of them are poorly tuned.

Although automatic tuning is currently widely used in simple controllers, it is also beneficial for more complicated controllers. It is in fact a prerequisite for the widespread use of more advanced control algorithms. A mechanism for automatic tuning is often necessary to get the correct time scale and to find a starting value for a more complex adaptive controller. The main advantage of using an automatic tuner is that it simplifies tuning drastically and thus contributes to improved control quality. Tuners have also been developed for other standard applications such as motor control. This is also a case in which a fairly standardized system has to be applied to a wide variety of applications.
