# 2.1 INTRODUCTION

On-line determination of process parameters is a key element in adaptive control. A recursive parameter estimator appears explicitly as a component of a self-tuning regulator (see Fig. 1.19). Parameter estimation also occurs implicitly in a model-reference adaptive controller (see Fig. 1.18). This chapter presents some methods for real-time parameter estimation. It is useful to view parameter estimation in the broader context of system identification. The key elements of system identification are selection of model structure, experiment design, parameter estimation, and validation. Since system identification is executed automatically in adaptive systems, it is essential to have a good understanding of all aspects of the problem. Selection of model structure and parameterization are fundamental issues. Simple transfer function models will be used in this chapter. The identification problems are simplified significantly if the models are linear in the parameters.

The experiment design is crucial for successful system identification. In control problems this boils down to selection of the input signal. Choosing an input signal requires some knowledge of the process and the intended use of the model. In adaptive systems there is an additional complication because the input signal to the plant is generated by feedback. In certain cases this does not permit the parameters to be determined uniquely, a situation that has far-reaching consequences. In some cases it may be necessary to introduce perturbation signals, as discussed in more detail in Chapters 6 and 7. In adaptive control the parameters of a process change continuously, so it is necessary to have estimation methods that update the parameters recursively.

In solving identification problems it is very important to validate the results. This is especially important for adaptive systems, in which identification is done automatically. Some validation techniques will therefore be discussed.
