Since adaptive control is a relatively new technology, there is limited experience of its use in products. One observation that has been made is that the human-machine interface is very important. Adaptive controllers also have their own parameters, which must be chosen. It has been our experience that controllers without any externally adjusted parameters can be designed for specific applications in which the purpose of control can be stated a priori. Autopilots for missiles and ships are typical examples. However, in many cases it is not possible to specify the purpose of control a priori. It is at least necessary to tell the controller what it is expected to do. This can be done by introducing dials that give the desired properties of the closed-loop system. Such dials are performance-related. New types of controllers can be designed by using this concept. For example, it is possible to have a controller with one dial, labeled with the desired closed-loop bandwidth. This is very convenient for applications to motor control. Another possibility would be to have a controller with a dial labeled with the weighting between state deviation and control action in a quadratic optimization problem. Adaptation can also be combined with gain scheduling. A gain schedule can be used to get the parameters quickly into the correct region, and adaptation can then be used for fine-tuning. On the whole it appears that there is significant room for engineering ingenuity in the packaging of adaptive techniques.
