The optimal controller sometimes has some interesting properties, which have been found by solving a number of specific problems. It attempts to drive the output to its desired value, but it will also introduce perturbations (probing) when the parameters are uncertain. This improves the quality of the estimates and the future performance of the closed-loop system. The optimal control gives the correct balance between maintaining good control and small estimation errors. The name dual control was coined to express this property.

It is interesting to compare the controller in Fig. 1.20 with the self-tuning regulator in Fig. 1.19. In the STR the states are separated into two groups: the ordinary state variables of the underlying constant parameter model and the parameters, which are assumed to vary slowly. The parameter estimator may be considered as an observer for the parameters. Notice that many estimators will also provide estimates of the uncertainties, although this is not used in calculating the control signal. The calculation of the hyperstate in the dual controller gives the conditional distribution of all states and all parameters of the process. The conditional mean value represents estimates, and the conditional covariances give the uncertainties of the estimates. Uncertainties are not used in computing the control signal in the self-tuning regulator. They are important for the dual controller because it may automatically introduce perturbations when the estimates are poor. Dual control is discussed in more detail in Chapter 7.
