# 8.1 INTRODUCTION

Adaptive schemes like MRAS and STR require a priori information about the process dynamics. It is particularly important to know time scales, which are critical for determining suitable sampling intervals and filtering. The importance of a priori information was overlooked for a long time but became apparent in connection with the development of general-purpose adaptive controllers. Several manufacturers were forced to introduce a pre-tune mode to help in obtaining the required prior information. The importance of prior information also appeared in connection with attempts to develop techniques for automatic tuning of simple PID regulators. Such regulators, which are standard building blocks for industrial automation, are used to control systems with a wide range of time constants.

From the user's point of view it would be ideal to have an auto-tuning function in which the regulator can be tuned simply by pushing a button. Although conventional adaptive schemes seemed to be ideal tools to provide automatic tuning, they were found to be inadequate because they required prior knowledge of time scales. Special techniques for automatic tuning of simple regulators were therefore developed. These techniques are also useful for providing pre-tuning of more complicated adaptive systems. In this chapter we describe some of these techniques. They can be characterized as crude robust methods that provide ballpark information. They are thus ideal complements to the more sophisticated adaptive methods. An overview of industrial PID controllers with auto-tuning is given in Section 12.3.

The chapter is organized as follows: The standard PID controller is discussed in Section 8.2. Different auto-tuning techniques are given in Section 8.3. Transient and frequency response methods for tuning are developed in

Sections 8.4 and 8.5, respectively, and Section 8.6 is devoted to analysis of relay oscillations. Conclusions are presented in Section 8.7.
