# Identification in Closed Loop

When discussing parameter estimation in Chapter 2, we observed that identifiability could be lost if the input was generated by feedback from the output. The reason is that the feedback introduces dependencies in the regression vector. (Compare with Example 2.10.) Since this is very important for the behavior of direct adaptive controllers, we will investigate the problem in a little more detail. In this analysis we will consider what happens when we perform system identification to data generated by feedback. Consider a process described by

$$A y (t) = B u (t) + v (t) \tag {6.31}$$

with the controller

$$R u = T u _ {c} - S y$$

where polynomials R, S, and T have constant parameters. The closed-loop system is given by

$$y = \frac {B T}{A R + B S} u _ {c} + \frac {R}{A R + B S} vu = - \frac {A T}{A R + B S} u _ {c} + \frac {S}{A R + B S} v$$

With a system identification experiment it is possible to determine the transfer functions

$$G _ {1} - \frac {B T}{A R + B S} \quad G _ {2} = - \frac {A T}{A R + B S}G _ {3} = \frac {R}{A R + B S} \quad G _ {4} = \frac {S}{A R + B S}$$

that appear in these equations. There are no problems with identifiability if the input signal $u_{c}$ is persistently exciting of sufficiently high order because the polynomials A and B are then readily determined from $G_{1}$ and $G_{2}$ . However, if the command signal is zero and all excitation comes from the disturbance, we can determine only the polynomial

$$A _ {c} = A R + B S \tag {6.32}$$

To achieve identifiability, it must also be required that the signal v be persistently exciting of sufficiently high order. The question of identifiability of polynomials A and B then becomes a problem of uniquely determining A and B from Eq. (6.32) when polynomials R and S are known. If $A_{0}$ and $B_{0}$ are solutions, the general solution is

$$A = A _ {0} + Q S \quad B = B _ {0} - Q R$$

where Q is an arbitrary polynomial. When the model structure is specified, the highest degree of A is also given. The solution is thus unique only if polynomials R and S have sufficiently high degree. To achieve identifiability in closed loop, it is therefore important that the controller be of sufficiently high order. It is natural to assume that R and S have the same degree. Identifiability is then obtained if

$$\deg R = \deg S \geq \deg A \tag {6.33}$$

In Example 3.2, in which $\deg A = 2$ , $\deg B = 1$ , and $\deg R = \deg S = 1$ , we do not have identifiability under closed loop with $u_c = 0$ . However, if it is required that the controller has integral action as in Example 3.10, we have $\deg R = \deg S = 2$ , and the condition (6.33) holds. To achieve identifiability, it must, of course, be required that the disturbance be persistently exciting.

Also observe that if a pole placement design is used, all models that are estimated will give the correct closed-loop characteristic polynomial.
