# Self-tuning Regulators (STR)

The adaptive schemes discussed so far are called direct methods, because the adjustment rules tell directly how the controller parameters should be updated. A different scheme is obtained if the estimates of the process parameters are updated and the controller parameters are obtained from the solution of a design problem using the estimated parameters. A block diagram of such a system is shown in Fig. 1.19. The adaptive controller can be thought of as being composed of two loops. The inner loop consists of the process and an ordinary feedback controller. The parameters of the controller are adjusted by the outer loop, which is composed of a recursive parameter estimator and a design calculation. It is sometimes not possible to estimate the process parameters without introducing probing control signals or perturbations. Notice that the system may be viewed as an automation of process modeling and design, in which the process model and the control design are updated at each sampling period. A controller of this construction is called a self-tuning regulator (STR) to emphasize that the controller automatically tunes its parameters to obtain the desired properties of the closed-loop system. Self-tuning regulators are discussed in detail in Chapters 3 and 4.

The block labeled "Controller design" in Fig. 1.19 represents an on-line solution to a design problem for a system with known parameters. This is the underlying design problem. Such a problem can be associated with most adaptive control schemes, but it is often given indirectly. To evaluate adaptive control schemes, it is often useful to find the underlying design problem, because it will give the characteristics of the system under the ideal conditions when the parameters are known exactly.
