In Horowitz's procedure the feedback transfer function $G_{fb}$ is first determined such that the closed-loop uncertainty is within the specified limits. The nominal value of the transfer function is then modified by the feedforward compensation $G_{ff}$ . The method is based on graphical constructions using the Nichols chart. It gives a high-order linear compensator that can cope with the specified plant uncertainty. The procedure attempts to keep the loop gain as low as possible. A key idea in the Horowitz design method is the observation that a system in which the Nyquist curve is close to a straight line through the origin can tolerate a significant change of gain. The response time will change with the gain, but the shape of the response will remain invariant. For minimum-phase systems with a known pole excess it is always possible to find a frequency range in which the phase is constant. By proper compensation it is then possible to obtain a loop gain at which the Nyquist curve is close to a straight-line segment. The assumption that the pole excess is known implies that the phase of the system is known for high frequencies. This is not always a realistic assumption. The Horowitz design method was originally developed for structured perturbations but has also been extended to unstructured uncertainties.

The main step in the procedure is to determine the tolerances for the gain in the closed-loop transfer function. The plant uncertainties are specified as gain and phase variations of the plant transfer function at different frequencies. The given tolerances and uncertainties are used to calculate constraints for the open-loop transfer function. The feedback compensator $G_{fh}$ is then designed such that the compensated open-loop system satisfies the tolerances. This is usually an iterative procedure, which can conveniently be done graphically by using a Nichols chart. Finally, the prefilter $G_{ff}$ is designed such that the closed-loop specifications are fulfilled. This may be done by using the Bode diagram.

The major drawback of the method is that it is impossible to know a priori whether the desired closed-loop specifications are attainable. It is thus a trial-and-error method, but the iterations give the designer insight into the tradeoffs between different specifications, such as closed-loop sensitivity, complexity of the controller, and measurement noise amplification.
