# 6.4 ANALYSIS OF INDIRECT DISCRETE-TIME SELF-TUNERS

In this section we analyze the properties of indirect discrete-time self-tuners of the type illustrated by the block diagram in Fig. 1.19. Since such controllers contain a recursive parameter estimator and a control design calculation, it is natural to investigate these subsystems separately. Since identification is performed in closed loop, there may also be undesirable effects due to interaction of control and identification. We start by investigating the properties of the recursive parameter estimator. Second, the design calculations must be considered. It is particularly important to understand when the design calculations are poorly conditioned so that small changes in process parameter estimates may cause large changes in the controller parameters.

It would be highly desirable to determine whether the adaptive system can track parameters of a time-varying system. This is a very difficult problem, and we therefore limit the analysis to the case in which the real system has constant parameters. This can be considered as a first test of an adaptive algorithm. To carry out the analysis, we also assume that the real system is described by models that are compatible with the models used for parameter estimation. In this case it makes sense to talk about the “true parameters.” In reality, however, we also have to deal with the fact that the models that we use are approximations. This is called the nonideal case. This problem is discussed later in Section 6.9.
