# THEOREM 2.10 Transfer function estimation

Consider data generated by the model of Eq. (2.47), with $A^0$ stable and $e = 0$ . Let the parameters of the polynomials $A$ and $B$ be fitted by least squares. Assume that the input $u$ is persistently exciting of order $\deg A + \deg B + 1$ . If it is further assumed that $\deg A = \deg A^0$ and $\deg B \geq B^0$ , then $\lim_{t \to \infty} \Phi^T \Phi / t$ is positive definite.

Proof: Consider

$$V (\theta) = \theta^ {T} \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \frac {1}{t} \Phi^ {T} \Phi \theta = \lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \frac {1}{t} \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {t} \left(\varphi^ {T} (k) \theta\right) ^ {2}$$

Introduce

$$
\begin{array}{l} v (t) = \varphi^ {T} (t + n - 1) \theta = B (q) u (t) - \left(A (q) - q ^ {n}\right) y (t) \\ = B (q) u (t) - \frac {A (q) - q ^ {n}}{A ^ {0} (q)} B ^ {0} (q) u (t) \\ = \left\{A ^ {0} (q) B (q) - \left(A (q) - q ^ {n}\right) B ^ {0} (q) \right\} \frac {1}{A ^ {0} (q)} u (t) \\ \end{array}
$$

Since $A^{0}$ is stable, it follows from Theorem 2.9 that the signal $1/A^{0}(q) \cdot u(t)$ is persistently exciting of order $\deg A + \deg B + 1$ . Since the polynomial in braces has a degree lower than or equal to $\deg A + \deg B$ , it follows that the signal $v(t)$ does not vanish in the mean square sense unless the polynomial is identically zero. This happens if

$$\frac {B ^ {0} (q)}{A ^ {0} (q)} = \frac {B (q)}{A (q) - q ^ {n}}$$

Since $\deg A = \deg A^{0}$ , the denominator on the right-hand side thus has degree $\deg A - 1 = \deg A^{0} - 1$ . The rational functions are then not identical, and the theorem is proved.

Remark 1. Notice that $\deg A + \deg B + 1$ is equal to the number of parameters in the model of Eq. (2.47). The order of PE required is thus equal to the number of estimated parameters.

Remark 2. If the data is generated by Eq. (2.47), where $\{e(t)\}$ is white noise (i.e., a sequence of uncorrelated random variables), then the matrix

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \frac {1}{t} \Phi^ {T} \Phi$$

is positive definite for models of all orders provided that the input is persistently exciting of order $\deg B + 1$ .

Theorem 2.2 does not automatically apply to estimation of parameters of a transfer function, because the output y appears in the regression vector. A consequence of this is that theoretical properties of the estimates can be established asymptotically only for large number of observations.
