Estimation can be performed continuously or in batches. In digital implementations, which are most common, different sampling rates can be used for the controller and the estimator. It is also possible to use hybrid schemes in which control is performed continuously and the parameters are updated discretely. Parameter estimation can be done in many ways, as was discussed in Chapter 2. There is also a large variety of techniques that can be used for control system design. It is also possible to consider nonlinear models and nonlinear design techniques. Although many estimation methods will provide estimates of parameter uncertainties, these are typically not used in the control design. The estimated parameters are treated as if they are true in designing the controller. This is called the certainty equivalence principle.

The controller shown in Fig. 3.1 is thus a very rich structure. Only a few possibilities have been investigated. The choice of model structure and its parameterization are important issues for self-tuning regulators. A straightforward approach is to estimate the parameters of the transfer function of the process. This gives an indirect adaptive algorithm. The controller parameters are not updated directly, but rather indirectly via the estimation of the process model.

Often, the model can be reparameterized such that the controller parameters can be estimated directly. That is, a direct adaptive algorithm is obtained (compare with the discussion of the direct MRAS in Section 1.4). There has been some confusion in the nomenclature. In the self-tuning context, indirect methods have often been called explicit self-tuning control, since the process parameters have been estimated. Direct updating of the controller parameters has been called implicit self-tuning control. In the early papers on adaptive control a direct adaptive controller was often referred to as an adaptive controller without identification. It is convenient to divide the algorithms into indirect and direct self-tuners, but the distinction should not be overemphasized. The basic idea in both types of algorithms is to identify some parameters that are related to the process and/or the specifications of the closed-loop system.
