# A Brief History

In the early 1950s there was extensive research on adaptive control in connection with the design of autopilots for high-performance aircraft (see Fig. 1.2). Such aircraft operate over a wide range of speeds and altitudes. It was found that ordinary constant-gain, linear feedback control could work well in one operating condition but not over the whole flight regime. A more sophisticated controller that could work well over a wide range of operating conditions was therefore needed. After a significant development effort it was found that gain scheduling was a suitable technique for flight control systems. The interest in adaptive control diminished partly because the adaptive control problem was too hard to deal with using the techniques that were available at the time.

In the 1960s there were much research in control theory that contributed to the development of adaptive control. State space and stability theory were introduced. There were also important results in stochastic control theory. Dynamic programming, introduced by Bellman, increased the understanding of adaptive processes. Fundamental contributions were also made by Tsypkin, who showed that many schemes for learning and adaptive control could be described in a common framework. There were also major developments in system identification. A renaissance of adaptive control occurred in the 1970s, when different estimation schemes were combined with various design methods. Many applications were reported, but theoretical results were very limited.

In the late 1970s and early 1980s, proofs for stability of adaptive systems appeared, albeit under very restrictive assumptions. The efforts to merge ideas of robust control and system identification are of particular relevance. Investigation of the necessity of those assumptions sparked new and interesting research into the robustness of adaptive control, as well as into controllers that are universally stabilizing. Research in the late 1980s and early 1990s gave new insights into the robustness of adaptive controllers. Investigations of nonlinear systems led to significantly increased understanding of adaptive control. Lately, it has also been established that adaptive control has strong relations to ideas on learning that are emerging in the field of computer science.
