The output and control horizons can be chosen as follows: The lower limit $N_{1}$ in Eq. (4.61) indicates the first output that will be used in the loss function. The first output that is influenced by $u(t)$ is $y(t+d_{0})$ . If the time delay is known, then $N_{1}=d_{0}$ is the obvious choice. When the time delay is unknown, $N_{1}=1$ or $N_{1}=d_{0min}$ could be used, where $d_{0min}$ is an estimate of the lower limit of the delay. For unknown delays the order of the B polynomial should be increased to make it possible to include all possible values of $d_{0}$ . This will make the adaptive GPC quite insensitive to variations in the time delay.

The maximum output horizon $N_{2}$ can be chosen such that $N_{2}h$ is of the same magnitude as the rise time of the plant, where h is the sampling time of the controller. If the system is nonminimum phase, then $N_{2}$ should be chosen such that $N_{2}$ exceeds the degree of the B polynomial. This will imply that the maximum output horizon is longer than a possible negative-going nonminimum-phase transient.

The control horizon $N_{u}$ is an important design parameter. As a rule, $N_{u}$ should be longer the more complex the process is. For processes that are unstable or close to the stability boundary it is necessary to use a $N_{u}$ that is at least equal to the number of unstable or poorly damped poles. For simpler processes, $N_{u} = 1$ often gives good results.

To make the generalized predictive controller adaptive, it is necessary at each step of time to estimate the $A^{*}$ and $B^{*}$ polynomials. The predicted values for different prediction horizons are computed, and the control signal is calculated from Eq. (4.67). The adaptive generalized predictive controller is thus an indirect control algorithm. The predictions of Eq. (4.64) can be computed recursively, which will simplify the computations. Finally, $N_{u}$ is usually chosen to be small, which implies that only a low-order matrix needs to be inverted. The adaptive version of GPC has shown good performance and a certain degree of robustness with respect to the choice of model order and poorly known time delays.

To investigate the closed-loop properties of the system in using GPC, we first determine the control signal $\Delta u(t)$ from Eq. (4.67):
