To avoid a potential problem that occurs when $\varphi(t)=0$ , the denominator in the correction term is changed from $\varphi^{T}(t)\varphi(t)$ to $\varphi^{T}(t)\varphi(t)+\alpha$ , where $\alpha$ is a positive constant. The following algorithm is then obtained.

ALGORITHM 2.1 Projection algorithm

$$\hat {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t - 1) + \frac {\gamma \varphi (t)}{\alpha + \varphi^ {T} (t) \varphi (t)} \left(y (t) - \varphi^ {T} (t) \hat {\theta} (t - 1)\right) \tag {2.24}$$

where $\alpha \geq 0$ and $0 < \gamma < 2$ .

Remark 1. In some textbooks this is called the normalized projection algorithm.

Remark 2. The bound for the parameter $\gamma$ is obtained from the following analysis. Assume that data has been generated by Eq. (2.22) with parameter $\theta = \theta^{0}$ . It then follows from Eq. (2.24) that the parameter error

$$\bar {\theta} = \theta^ {0} - \hat {\theta}$$

satisfies the equation

$$\tilde {\theta} (t) = A (t) \tilde {\theta} (t - 1)$$

where

$$A (t) = I - \frac {\gamma \varphi (t) \varphi^ {T} (t)}{\alpha + \varphi^ {T} (t) \varphi (t)}$$

The matrix $A(t)$ has one eigenvalue,

$$\lambda = \frac {\alpha + (1 - \gamma) \varphi^ {T} \varphi}{\alpha + \varphi^ {T} \varphi}$$

This value is less than 1 in magnitude if $0 < \gamma < 2$ . The other eigenvalues of $A$ are all equal to 1.

The projection algorithm assumes that the data is generated by Eq. (2.22) with no error. When the data is generated by Eq. (2.12) with additional random error, a simplified algorithm is given by

$$\hat {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t - 1) + P (t) \varphi (t) \left(y (t) - \varphi^ {T} (t) \hat {\theta} (t - 1)\right) \tag {2.25}$$

where

$$P (t) = \left(\sum_ {i = 1} ^ {t} \varphi^ {T} (i) \varphi (i)\right) ^ {- 1} \tag {2.26}$$

This is the stochastic approximation (SA) algorithm. Notice that $P(t) = \Phi\Phi^{T}$ is now a scalar when $y(t)$ is a scalar. A further simplification is the least mean square (LMS) algorithm in which the parameter updating is done by using

$$\hat {\theta} (t) = \hat {\theta} (t - 1) + \gamma \varphi (t) \left(y (t) - \varphi^ {T} (t) \hat {\theta} (t - 1)\right)$$

where $\gamma$ is a constant.
