# Summary

The examples in this section illustrate some mechanisms that can create variations in process dynamics. The examples have of necessity been very simple to show some of the difficulties that may occur. In some cases it is straightforward to reduce the variations by introducing nonlinear compensations in the controllers. For the nonlinear valve in Example 1.4 it is natural to introduce a nonlinear compensator at the controller output that is the inverse of the valve characteristics. This modification is done in Example 9.1. The variations in flow rate in Example 1.5 can be dealt with in a similar way by measuring the flow and changing the controller parameters accordingly. To compensate for the variations in dynamics in Example 1.6, it is necessary to measure the flight conditions. In Examples 1.7 and 1.8, in which the variations are due to changes in the disturbances, it is not possible to directly relate the variation to a measurable quantity. In these cases it may be very advantageous to use adaptive control.

In practice there are many different sources of variations, and there is usually a mixture of different phenomena. The underlying reasons for the variations are in most cases not fully understood. When the physics of the process is reasonably well known (as for airplanes), it is possible to determine suitable controller parameters for different operating conditions by linearizing the models and using some method for control design. This is the common way to design autopilots for airplanes. System identification is an alternative to physical modeling. Both approaches do, however, require a significant engineering effort.

Most industrial processes are very complex and not well understood; it is neither possible nor economical to make a thorough investigation of the causes of the process variations. Adaptive controllers can be a good alternative in such cases. In other situations, some of the dynamics may be well understood, but other parts are unknown. A typical example is robots, for which the geometry, motors, and gearboxes do not change but the load does change. In such cases it is of great importance to use the available a priori knowledge and estimate and adapt only to the unknown part of the process.
