The two-armed bandit problem can be used to illustrate the essential ideas of multistep decision problems. One strategy that can be used is open-loop control, that is, the control sequence is chosen without any measurements being made. The decision is taken with respect to the a priori knowledge about p and the distribution of q. In the TAB case, machine I should be played if p is larger than the mean value of q; otherwise, machine II should be played. A second strategy is what is called open-loop optimal feedback (OLOF) control. This controller is derived by maximizing the multistep gain function at each step under the assumption that no further measurements will be available, that is, an open-loop control sequence is determined. The first step in the control sequence is then used, and the performance of the system is measured. On the basis of the new information (feedback) a new maximization is done (compare the receding horizon controller in Chapter 4). The first step in the OLOF control is thus the same as the first step in the open-loop control. The measurements are thus in the TAB problem used to update the estimate of the unknown probability q.

To find the optimal solution to the TAB problem, it is possible to use dynamic programming to derive the optimal strategy that maximizes the expected gain depending on the outcome of previous plays in the game. How this is done is shown for a more general case in Section 7.4. The optimal strategy for a simple TAB problem is illustrated in the following example adopted from Yakowitz (1969).
