In Section 6.2 we show that the adaptive control problem has a special nonlinear structure that can be exploited in the analysis. We first show that very complex, even chaotic, behavior can be observed if the adaptation gain is chosen to be too high.

Section 6.3 presents an analysis of a system with adaptation of a feedforward gain. Such systems can be described by linear time-varying systems in which the time variation originates from the command signal. The particular case of periodic variations can be dealt with by so-called Floquet theory. The analysis reveals that very complex behavior can be obtained even in this simple case.

The properties of indirect discrete-time adaptive systems are investigated in Section 6.4. In this case it is natural to investigate parameter estimation and the control design separately. There is interaction between these problems because the identification is done in closed loop and the control design influences the signals generated by feedback. The analysis brings out the importance of persistency of excitation and the dangers with singularities in the control design. A consequence of this is that it is desirable to have as few parameters as possible and to have external excitation. In Section 6.5 we make a similar analysis of the direct algorithm. One of the conditions required for the proof is that the complexity of the model used must be at least as complex as the process to be controlled. A characteristic feature of direct adaptive algorithms is that the closed-loop behavior can converge to the desired behavior even if the parameters do not converge.
