(a) Determine the asymptotic LS estimate of $\theta = b$ when d = 0 and $\{u_{c}\}$ is a sequence of independent, equally distributed random variables with zero mean and variance $\sigma^{2}$ (i.e., $u_{c}$ is a white noise signal).   
(b) Determine the asymptotic LS estimate of $b$ when $u_{c} = 0$ and $d = d_{0} =$ constant.   
(c) Discuss the case of least-squares estimation of $b$ when $u_{c}$ is as in part (a) and $d = d_0 = \text{constant}$ . What should be done to avoid a biased estimate of $b$ ?

2.18 Write a computer program to simulate the recursive least-squares estimation problem. Write the program so that arbitrary input signals can be used. Use the program to investigate the effects of initial values on the estimate.

2.19 Use the program from Problem 2.18 to estimate the parameters a and b in Problem 2.6. Investigate how the bias of the estimate depends on c.

2.20 Consider the estimation problem in Problem 2.6. Use the computer program developed in Problem 2.18 to explore what happens when the control signal u is generated by the feedback

$$u (t) = - k y (t)$$

Try to support your observations by analysis.

2.21 Consider the open-loop system in Section 2.5 when c = 0. Let the input signal be a square wave with unit amplitude and a period of 100 samples. Investigate through simulations the convergence and behavior of the parameter estimates when varying:

(a) The initial value $\hat{\theta} (0)$ .   
(b) The initial value of the covariance matrix $P(0)$ .   
(c) The forgetting factor $\lambda$ .   
(d) The period of the input signal.
