# 2.3 Consider data generated by the discrete-time system

$$y (t) = b _ {0} u (t) + b _ {1} u (t - 1) + e (t)$$

where $\{e(t)\}$ is a sequence of independent $N(0,1)$ random variables. Assume that the parameter b of the model

$$y (t) = b u (t)$$

is determined by least squares.

(a) Determine the estimates obtained for large observation sets when the input $u$ is a step. (This is a simple illustration of the problem of fitting a low-order model to data generated by a complex model. The result obtained will critically depend on the character of the input signal.)

(b) Make the same investigation as in part (a) when the input signal is a sequence of independent $N(0, \sigma)$ random variables.

2.4 Determine which of the input signals below are persistently exciting of at least order 4.

(a)

$$u (t) = a _ {0} + a _ {1} \sin \omega t \quad a _ {i} \neq 0, \quad i = 0, 1$$

(b)

$$u (t) = \frac {q - 0 . 5}{(q - 0 . 4) (q - 0 . 6)} v (t)$$

where $v(t)$ is persistently exciting of order 5.

(c)

$$u (t) = \frac {q - 0 . 5}{(q - 0 . 4) (q - 0 . 6)} v (t)$$

where $v(t)$ has a spectrum $\Phi_{v}(\omega)$ that is not equal to zero in the interval $1 < \omega < 2$ .

2.5 Consider the discrete-time system

$$y (t + 1) + a y (t) = b u (t) + e (t + 1)$$

where the input signal u and the noise e are sequences of independent random variables with zero mean values and standard deviation $\sigma$ and 1. Determine the covariance of the estimates obtained for large observation sets.

2.6 Consider data generated by the least-squares model

$$y (t + 1) + a y (t) = b u (t) + e (t + 1) + c e (t) \quad t = 1, 2, \dots$$

where $\{u(t)\}$ and $\{e(t)\}$ are sequences of independent random variables with zero mean values and standard deviations 1 and $\sigma$ . Assume that parameters a and b of the model

$$y (t + 1) + a y (t) = b u (t)$$

are estimated by least squares. Determine the asymptotic values of the estimates.

2.7 Consider least-squares estimation of the parameters $b_{1}$ and $b_{2}$ in

$$y (t) = b _ {1} u (t) + b _ {2} u (t - 1)$$

Assume that the following measurements are obtained:

<table><tr><td>t</td><td>u</td><td>y</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>1000</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>1001</td><td>2001</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>1000</td><td>2001</td></tr></table>

Discuss the numerical properties of computing the estimates directly and by the normal equations.

2.8 Consider the model

$$y (t) = a + b \cdot t + e (t) \quad t = 1, 2, 3, \dots$$
