Crossings at the origin can also occur for $\omega = 0$ if the transfer function has a zero at $s = 0$ , and for $\omega = \infty$ if the transfer function is strictly proper. In each case there is one crossing, regardless of multiplicity. The direction can be determined from the behavior of the phase as $\omega$ tends to 0 or $\infty$ .

Finally, the Nyquist plot crosses the real axis arbitrarily far from the origin, as the $s$ -plane contour follows indentations around $j$ -axis poles. If the indentations are made to the right of the poles, the Nyquist locus follows a circular arc of large radius, clockwise because of the decreasing phase. A simple pole at $s = j\omega_0$ , $\omega_0 \neq 0$ , will generate one crossing—downward on the positive real axis if the phase at $\omega_{0-}$ corresponds to the top half plane, or upward on the negative real axis if the phase at $\omega_{0-}$ corresponds to a point in the lower half plane. Poles with higher multiplicity will generate several crossings, but always downward on the positive real axis and upward on the negative real axis.

The reasoning is the same for a pole at $s = 0$ , even though the Bode plot does not show the phase at $\omega = 0_{-}$ ; that is of little consequence, since the phase at $\omega = 0_{-}$ is just the negative of the phase at $\omega = 0_{+}$ , which is available. It is necessary to be careful in the case of poles of even multiplicity $m$ at $s = 0$ . The phase tends to $0^{\circ}$ or $180^{\circ}$ as $\omega$ tends to zero. The phase $\neq L[j\omega(0_{+})]$ is close to the asymptotic value, and $\neq L[j\omega(0_{-})] = -\neq L[j\omega(0_{+})]$ is also close to the asymptotic value. The circular arc of large radius begins at $L[j\omega(0_{-})]$ , runs clockwise, and ends at $L[j\omega(0_{+})]$ , so the total angular change is slightly different from $180m$ . Depending on whether $L[j\omega(0_{-})]$ is above or below the real axis, there could be either $m$ or $m - 1$ crossings of the real axis.

Example 5.15 Obtain the Bode plot for $L(s) = \frac{k}{(s - 1)(s + 2)(s + 5)}$ with $k = 1$ , and find the range of $k$ for stability:

Solution Figure 5.24 shows the Bode plots for $L'(j\omega)$ (MATLAB bode). Since $P = 1$ , we need $N = -1$ for stability. There are two crossings of the negative real axis (phase $= 180^\circ$ ), at $\omega = 0$ and $\omega = 1.81$ rad/s, and one crossing of the origin, at $\omega = \infty$ . The locations and directions are as follows:
