# 4.4.4 Performance Limitations: Stability

In the absence of RHP poles and zeros of $P(s)$ , there are no restrictions on $S$ or $T$ other than stability. As illustrated in Example 4.5, any stable $S$ or $T$ is allowable.

Recall that S = 0 at RHP poles of P, and S = 1 at RHP zeros of P. RHP poles by themselves do not limit our ability to make $|S(j\omega)|$ small; it is not difficult to make S small everywhere in the complex plane and 0 at the RHP poles. On the other hand, RHP zeros do limit our ability to make $|S(j\omega)|$ small, because they force $S(s)$ to be 1 at some points in the plane. The consequence is that the overall sensitivity is increased everywhere. To illustrate, we may think of a tight rubber membrane stretched over the complex plane: if we hold the membrane up at some points, it is lifted everywhere else as well.

The problem is the same as in the case of open-loop control except for the fact that, unlike the function $W(s)$ , $S(s)$ may have RHP zeros. Since Equation 4.22 does not apply to functions with zeros in the open RHP, a preliminary step is required.

Let $S(s)$ have RHP zeros at $p_1, p_2, \ldots, p_k$ , the open RHP poles of $P$ . We assume that $S(s)$ has no other RHP zeros. We define the Blaschke product, $B_p(s)$ , as

$$B _ {p} (s) = \frac {- p _ {1} + s}{p _ {1} + s} \cdot \frac {- p _ {2} + s}{p _ {2} + s} \dots \frac {- p _ {k} + s}{p _ {k} + s}.$$

Note that $B_{p}$ is stable because its poles are at $-p_{1}, -p_{2}, \ldots, -p_{k}$ . The zeros of $B_{p}$ are all in the RHP, at $p_{1}, p_{2}, \ldots, p_{k}$ .

We claim that $S(s)$ may be written as

$$S (s) = \widetilde {S} (s) B _ {p} (s) \tag {4.49}$$

where $\widetilde{S}(s)$ has no zeros in the open RHP. To see this, consider the example

$$S (s) = \frac {s (- s + 1)}{(s + 2) ^ {2}}.$$

Then let

$$B _ {p} (s) = \frac {- s + 1}{s + 1}$$

and

$$
\begin{array}{l} S (s) = \frac {s (s + 1)}{(s + 2) ^ {2}} \frac {- s + 1}{s + 1} \\ = \widetilde {S} (s) \cdot B _ {p} (s). \tag {4.50} \\ \end{array}
$$

Clearly, $\widetilde{S}(s) = [s(s + 1)] / (s + 2)^2$ has no zeros in the open RHP.

Clearly, $S(s) = [s(s + 1)](s + 1)$ . It is not difficult to see that, in general, $\widetilde{S}(s)$ is generated by "pulling out" the open RHP zeros of $S(s)$ and replacing them with zeros in the open LHP. Of course, if $P$ has no RHP poles, $S$ has no RHP zeros and this procedure is not necessary: Equation 4.49 can still be used, with $B_{p}(s) = 1$ .
