# 2.1 INTRODUCTION

The starting point for a control system design is a model of the plant. There are two basic approaches to modeling. When modeling from fundamental principles, we identify the important physical processes taking place in the system, and we write equations describing those processes and their interrelations. The black-box approach lies at the other end of the scale and makes no assumptions about internal mechanisms. When we use a black-box approach, we observe actual inputs and outputs and try to fit a model to the observations. For example, we may start from a transfer function of a given order and proceed to adjust its parameters so that the model response to an input approximates the plant's response. Between these two extremes lies a variety of "gray-box" methods in which the structure of the model is dictated by the physics but the parameters are identified by experiment.

The identification of parameters from experimental data is a subject unto itself and lies beyond the scope of this book. The models we shall use will be derived mostly from fundamental principles.

If modeling is the first step in control system design, simulation is the last. To simulate a control system is to solve the equations that describe it, given specific inputs and disturbances. The equations to be solved include those of the controllers, actuators, and sensors as well as those of the plant model. Sometimes the design is carried out directly by simulation, if it requires only modest adjustments of a previous design. In that case, the designer proceeds by trial and error, manipulating a few key controller parameters. More often, the simulation is the final check of the design before the physical implementation. This check is often necessary because of the common practice of using simplified models to obtain a design, which is then verified with a more realistic simulation model.
