# 7.1 INTRODUCTION

In this chapter, we study a class of design methods that are fundamentally different from the classical methods presented in Chapter 5. In state feedback, the controls are generated as linear combinations of the state variables. State methods appeared in the late 1950s, although the basic ideas behind them are much older. State feedback focuses on time-domain features of the system responses. The mathematical tools are drawn from linear algebra and optimization theory; since operations on matrices larger than $3 \times 3$ are difficult to do by hand, state methods had to wait for the advent of the digital computer to become practical; hence their rather late entry in the fifties. The sixties and seventies saw a great flurry of research activity on state feedback methods. During that period many researchers tended to regard the frequency-based methods as passé; fortunately, practitioners did not share that view. Nowadays, it is generally recognized that both state and frequency methods have their places in the control engineer's design kit. Much good research work has been directed at showing linkages between the two. In most cases, the frequency domain is the better way to define specifications. On the other hand, it appears that state methods are better suited to numerical work. What is emerging are methods where problems are cast in the frequency domains and translated into a state formulation for algorithmic solutions, thus combining the best of both worlds.

This chapter is organized as follows. We begin with a discussion of some properties of state feedback. We then describe pole placement methods, particularly for single-input systems. We go on to the so-called linear-quadratic (LQ) regulator, probably the centerpiece of so-called modern control. Both pole placement and the LQ regulator require that the whole state vector be available, a condition that often is not met in practice. We devise dynamic systems called observers to generate estimates of the state. The final section discusses control systems designed by using a state feedback control law, but with the state replaced by its estimate.
