An attempt to design a control system that minimizes $\int_{0}^{\infty}\mathbf{x}^{T}(t)Q\mathbf{x}(t)dt$ will almost invariably lead to a design that uses large input values. The reason is that large inputs (e.g., impulses) cause the state to change rapidly and thus drive $\mathbf{x}(t)$ to zero faster than inputs of moderate magnitude. The term $\int_{0}^{\infty}\mathbf{u}^{T}(t)R\mathbf{u}(t)dt$ is included in Equation 7.19 to keep tabs on the input magnitude. A design that uses large input values will yield a large value for J, because the second term in Equation 7.19 will be large; on the other hand, a design that generates small inputs will not do a good job of driving $\mathbf{x}(t)$ to zero, so the first term in Equation 7.19 will be relatively large. A design that minimizes J represents a compromise between the conflicting desiderata of good regulation and reasonably sized inputs.

The actual value of the performance index J is not usually meaningful; control system performance is really too complex and multifaceted to be reducible to a single number. We cast the control problem as an optimization problem not because we particularly wish to minimize J, but because the optimal solution is mathematically tractable and has desirable properties. The optimization framework also offers a convenient “handle” on the properties of the solution. For example, suppose the solution that minimizes $J = \int_{0}^{\infty}[Q_{11}x_{1}^{2}(t) + R_{11}u_{1}^{2}(t)]dt$ turns out to yield excessive values of $u_{1}(t)$ under typical simulation runs. We can increase $R_{11}$ and solve again; the increased penalty on $u_{1}$ will yield a new solution that leads to smaller values of $u_{1}$ and somewhat larger values of $x_{1}$ . We keep adjusting the weights until we reach a suitable compromise.
