# 2.6 MODEL UNCERTAINTY

A model is an abstract construct used to predict the behavior of output variables, given the time history of the input variables. Whether or not a model is “true” is irrelevant: the only function of a model is to predict the behavior of a physical system. The whole idea of a control system is to generate inputs that will produce desirable outputs; it is not surprising, therefore, that the design process depends on the predictive ability of the model.

We shall see that the achievable performance of a control system depends, in part, on the quality of the model: the more stringent the requirements, the better the model must be. On the other hand, model improvement often goes hand in hand with increased complexity. For example, the simplest model of a physical resistor is a resistance; at high frequencies, that simple model will not be adequate, and the addition of capacitances, inductances, and nonlinearities may be necessary. The development of a complex model requires time and experimental work, both of which have costs. Therefore, the idea is to use a model of no greater complexity than is needed by the performance to be achieved. This implies that the design of the control system needs to take into account the predictive inaccuracy of the model.

Part of the model uncertainty is not truly “uncertain.” There is often a truth model, the most accurate model we have, and a simplified version, the design model, used as the basis for the design. The use of a linearized model of a nonlinear system falls in the latter category, as does the use of a single linear model for all expected operating points, as opposed to a different model for each one.

Some of the uncertainty can be accounted for by changes in the model parameters; this is known as parametric uncertainty. All models in our examples contain parameters: masses, spring constants, and so forth. The parameter values are known only to certain tolerances—hence the discrepancy between the model and the physical object if the parameter values are in error.
