5.36 Active suspension The suspension system of Example 2.2 (Chapter 2) is subject to parametric variations. The mass $M$ may range between 200 and $500\mathrm{kg}$ , and the spring constant $K_{2}$ may take on values between $1\times 10^{4}$ and $5\times 10^{4}\mathrm{N / m}$ .

a. Compute the ranges of values of the coefficients of the values of the transfer function $y / u$ , $y = x_{1} - x_{2}$ . (Note: Since the extremal values of the coefficients do not necessarily occur at the extremal values of the parameters, you will need to calculate the coefficients for different values of $M$ and $K_{2}$ .)   
b. For a gain feedback law $u = -k(x_1 - x_2)$ , calculate the ranges of values for the coefficients of the closed-loop characteristic polynomial.   
c. Calculate the range of $k$ for which the Kharitonov polynomials are stable.   
d. Using a Nyquist or Routh argument, calculate the true range of k for closed-loop stability.

M

5.37 Servo with flexible shaft The torsional spring constant $K$ in Problem 2.5 (Chapter 2) is assumed to vary between 3 and $7\mathrm{N / m}$ .

a. Compute the ranges of values of the coefficients of $\theta_{2} / v$ . (See note, Problem 5.36.)   
b. With $\theta_{2}$ as the output and pure-gain feedback $k$ , calculate the ranges of the values for the coefficients of the closed-loop characteristic polynomial in terms of $k$ .   
c. Obtain the Kharitonov polynomials, and compute the true range of $k$ for which they are all stable.   
d. Using a Routh or Nyquist argument, compute the true range of $k$ for which the closed-loop stability of the family is assured.

M

5.38 In some problems, the gain is the unknown parameter.

a. Let $P(s) = kP_0(s)$ , $k_{\min} < k < k_{\max}$ . Sketch on the complex plane a particular frequency point $P_0(j\omega_0)$ and the locus of points $kP_0(j\omega_0)$ generated by $k$ varying between its limits.   
b. For a loop gain $L(s) = k[(s + 3) / s(s + 1)^2]$ , determine the range of $k$ for closed-loop stability. Let $k_{\min}$ and $k_{\max}$ be the extreme values.   
c. Compute the Nyquist plots of $L(j\omega)$ for $k_{\min}$ and $k_{\max}$ , and plot them on the same plane.

M

5.39 In certain problems, the magnitude is known but the phase is not. For example, let $P(s) = e^{-s\tau}P_0(s)$ , where $\tau, 0 \leq \tau \leq \tau_{\max}$ , is a time delay. Since $|e^{-j\omega \tau}| = 1$ and $\neq e^{-j\omega \tau} = -\omega \tau$ , the phase of $P(j\omega)$ is uncertain.
