# OBSERVER-BASED FEEDBACK

Since a state estimator generated by an observer converges to the actual state, it seems appropriate to close the loop by using the state estimate, rather than the (unavailable) state, in a state feedback law.

To study this situation, we recall the plant equations,

$$\dot {\mathbf {x}} = A \mathbf {x} + B \mathbf {u}.$$

Use of the control $\mathbf{u} = -K\widehat{\mathbf{x}}$ yields

$$\dot {\mathbf {x}} = A \mathbf {x} - B K \widehat {\mathbf {x}}.$$

We now use the fact that $\widehat{\mathbf{x}} = \mathbf{x} - \widetilde{\mathbf{x}}$ , to obtain

$$\dot {\mathbf {x}} = A \mathbf {x} - B K \mathbf {x} + B K \widetilde {\mathbf {x}}. \tag {7.87}$$

We recall Equation 7.61, for the observer error

$$\tilde {\mathbf {x}} = (A - G C) \tilde {\mathbf {x}}. \tag {7.88}$$

Equations 7.87 and 7.88 together form a description of the closed-loop system. (The estimate $\widehat{\mathbf{x}}$ is not given explicitly but can, if desired, be calculated as $\mathbf{x} - \widetilde{\mathbf{x}}$ .) Taken together, Equations 7.87 and 7.88 are

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c} \dot {\mathbf {x}} \\ - - \\ \ddot {\widetilde {\mathbf {x}}} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} A - B K & B K \\ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0 & A - G C \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} \mathbf {x} \\ - - \\ \widetilde {\mathbf {x}} \end{array} \right]. \tag {7.89}
$$

The matrix in Equation 7.89 is block triangular. For any block-triangular matrix, the eigenvalues are those of the diagonal blocks; here, the closed-loop eigenvalues are those of (i) A - BK and (ii) A - GC. In other words, the closed-loop eigenvalues are those of (i) the closed-loop state feedback design and (ii) the observer error system. It follows that the eigenvalues of independently designed state feedback control and observer are retained when the two are combined.

Figure 7.24 illustrates the structure of an observer-based control system for the regulator case. This figure takes into account the fact that the designs of both the state feedback controller and the observer are for the plant linearized about some constant steady state; hence the appearance of $\Delta u$ , $\Delta\widehat{x}$ , and $\Delta y$ . Note that $\Delta y = y - y_{d} = -e$ . The controller is the subsystem within the dotted line. It is described by the equations
