# 1.1 CONTROL SYSTEMS AND WHY WE NEED THEM

In many situations, it is necessary that the value of a variable be kept near some target value. The target value may be constant, in which case the objective is regulation, or it may vary, and the problem becomes one of tracking. Examples of variables to be regulated are the speed of rotation of a computer disk, the moisture content of paper in the papermaking process, and the chemical composition of the outlet of a reactor. Examples of tracking, or servo, problems are the control of a robotic manipulator along a preset trajectory, the control of an aircraft or missile to make it follow a specified flight path, and the tracking of a target by an antenna or a telescope.

God must have been a control engineer, for the human body is replete with clever regulation and servo systems. Our body temperature is held very near $37^{\circ}$ C by a system that uses a multitude of sensors and several mechanisms (perspiration, circulation, and shivering) to affect temperature. The way in which we reach out to an object, grasp it, and place it represents an admirable solution to a very tough control problem, certainly a much better one than can be managed with robotics at this time.

There are many reasons why we need control systems, but the four most important ones are performance, economics, safety, and reliability. Many systems cannot achieve specified levels of performance without controls. A high-performance aircraft must have a control system to achieve the required maneuverability. A robot depends greatly on its control system to achieve good accuracy. A distillation column must be controlled if the chemical composition of its outlet stream is to be within specifications.
