Economic considerations are also important, especially in process control, i.e., in the control of production systems. There are many so-called continuous processes, designed to operate in the steady state. Power plants, distillation columns, and paper machines are all examples of systems that are designed to keep constant operating conditions except during start-up and shutdown. The operating points of the units of such processes are often chosen to maximize economic returns, subject to inequality constraints imposed on certain variables by quality or safety considerations. It is often the case that the optimal solution calls for operation at a constraint boundary. For example, the basis weight (weight per unit area) of paper produced by a papermaking machine is required to be above a certain lower limit. It is clear that, the lighter the paper, the smaller the quantity of pulp required, and hence the lower the cost. Therefore, the optimal operating point calls for a basis weight exactly at the limit. However, because of basis weight fluctuations, the operating point must be moved to some value greater than the limit, so as to guarantee that specifications will be met most of the time despite fluctuations. A good control system minimizes those fluctuations and makes it possible to operate closer to the constraint boundaries. This type of analysis is often used to justify the acquisition of a control system, bearing in mind that, in high-volume industries, a small-percentage improvement may represent very substantial savings. Another economic benefit, one that is more difficult to predict, is that a process can often be run at a higher capacity with improved control.

Safety is a third justification for control. An aircraft landing under poor visibility conditions must be controlled to follow a safe glide path. A nuclear reactor must operate in such a way that key variables are kept within safe limits. Many systems have “danger zones”; it is the task of the control system to avoid them.

Finally, control is used to achieve better reliability. Physical systems are usually less prone to failure if they are operated smoothly and with low levels of fluctuation. A sheet of paper threaded through drying rolls is less likely to break if the speed of the rolls is nearly constant. Automobile manufacturers advise drivers to avoid quick starts and stops in order to lengthen the lives of their cars. Nature appears to abhor radical, quick changes, as it is said to abhor a vacuum.
