Modeling and simulation are given more prominence than in most Control texts. It can be argued that, with more and more of the actual design burden being shifted to the computers, Control engineers will tend to concentrate on modeling. In any case, simulation occupies an important place in the practical design of control systems, and, with the advent of inexpensive and powerful computing, should now be receiving more attention in Control courses.

Models for a number of systems are introduced and defined in the problems in Chapter 2. These same models recur in problems in other chapters in order to serve as continuous examples for the application of the various techniques developed. A list of these systems and where they occur throughout the text can be found following the Table of Contents. This matrix is also provided in the solutions manual.

Some of the problems are “think” problems, designed to implant theoretical concepts. Others are relatively complex, but easily within the capabilities of today’s microcomputers. This opens up the possibility of studying several control scenarios (e.g., several parameter values, bandwidths) for possible tradeoffs. Those problems requiring the use of MATLAB are identified as such with an icon: M.

Chapter 1 introduces the control problem. Chapter 2 is given to simulation and modeling. Several modeling examples are worked out, from several technical areas; those examples are carried throughout the book, as applications of control design concepts. The problems in Chapter 2 also recur as method problems in later chapters, so that students may retain their Chapter 2 simulations for later use.
