The design at the abstract level results in the definition of a control strategy. It is primarily a mathematical exercise, and that exercise is the subject of this book. In actual fact, control engineers spend much more time designing the physical system, where the issues are quite different and include economics, project management, availability of equipment, reliability of both equipment and vendors, interaction with clients, ergonomics, and labor relations. The two levels interact to a considerable extent, and the overall process is iterative. For example, performance specifications are seldom set a priori, but are often the result of compromises between performance, actuator, sensor, and computer costs and the needs of the end user.

The reader will readily appreciate that a control engineering project is a team undertaking. It is almost impossible for one person to be an expert in all the subdisciplines that are brought into play. This book will serve as an introduction to the design process at the abstract level. This process is general, and is applicable to control problems in all areas of technology as well as to many socioeconomic systems. The control engineer must bring to the team a high level of expertise in this kind of design. To be an effective member of the team, he or she must also have some acquaintance with instrumentation, computer engineering, and economics. The serious student is strongly encouraged to plan his or her studies so as to get at least some exposure to those subjects.
