# 2.1 Introduction

Mathematical models for computer-controlled systems are introduced in this chapter. A key idea is to show how a continuous-time system can be transformed into a discrete-time system by considering the behavior of the signals at the sampling instants.

In this chapter the system is studied as seen from the computer. The computer receives measurements from the process at discrete times and transmits new control signals at discrete times. The goal then is to describe the change in the signals from sample to sample and disregard the behavior between the samples. The use of difference equations then becomes a natural tool. It should be emphasized that computer-oriented mathematical models only give the behavior at the sampling points—the physical process is still a continuous-time system. Looking at the problem this way, however, will greatly simplify the treatment. We will give formulas that allow a computation of intersample behavior, but a full treatment of process-oriented models, which takes continuous-time behavior into account, is given in Chapter 7.

One point that must be treated with some caution is that the sampled-data system is time-varying (see Example 1.1). This problem is also discussed in Chapter 7. In this chapter the problem of time variation is avoided by studying the signals at time instances that are synchronized with the clock in the computer. This gives models described by difference equations in state-space and input-output forms. Section 2.2 gives a description of the sampling mechanism. Section 2.3 treats the problem of finding the discrete-time representation of a continuous-time state-space model by using zero-order-hold devices. The inverse problem of finding the continuous-time system that corresponds to a given discrete-time system is also treated in Sec. 2.3. The general solution of forced difference equations is given in Sec. 2.4. Sections 2.5 and 2.6 deal with transformation of state-space models and the connection between state-space and input-output models. Shift operators are used to describe input-output models. Shift-operator calculus is equivalent to the use of differential operators for continuous-time systems. The discrete-time equivalent of the Laplace transform is the z-transform, which is covered in Sec. 2.7.
