# 2.2 Sampling Continuous-Time Signals

According to dictionaries, sampling means "the act or process of taking a small part or quantity of something as a sample for testing or analysis." In the context of control and communication, sampling means that a continuous-time signal is replaced by a sequence of numbers, which represents the values of the signal at certain times.

Sampling is a fundamental property of computer-controlled systems because of the discreta-time nature of the digital computer. Consider, for example, the system shown in Fig. 1.1. The process variables are sampled in connection with the analog conversion and then converted to digital representation for processing. The continuous-time signal that represents the process variables is thus converted to a sequence of numbers, which is processed by the digital computer. The processing gives a new sequence of numbers, which is converted to a continuous-time signal and applied to the process. In the system shown in Fig. 1.1, this is handled by the D-A converter. The process of converting a sequence of numbers into a continuous-time signal is called signal reconstruction.

For the purpose of analysis, it is useful to have a mathematical description of sampling. Sampling a continuous-time signal simply means to replace the signal by its values in a discrete set of points. Let $Z$ be the positive and negative integers $Z = \{\ldots, -1, 0, 1, \ldots\}$ and let $\{t_k : k \in Z\}$ be a subset of the real numbers called the sampling instants. The sampled version of the signal $f$ is then the sequence $\{f(t_k) : k \in Z\}$ . Sampling is a linear operation. The sampling instants are often equally spaced in time, that is, $t_k = k \cdot h$ . This case is called periodic sampling and $h$ is called the sampling period, or the sampling time. The corresponding frequency $f_s = 1/h$ (Hz) or $\omega_s = 2\pi/h$ (rad/s) is called the sampling frequency. It is also convenient to introduce a notation for half the sampling frequency $f_N = 1/(2h)$ (Hz) or $\omega_N = \pi/h$ (rad/s), which is called the Nyquist frequency.

More complicated sampling schemes can also be used. For instance, different sampling periods can be used for different control loops. This is called multirate sampling and can be considered to be the superposition of several periodic sampling schemes.

The case of periodic sampling is well understood. Most theory is devoted to this case, but systems with multirate sampling are becoming more important because of the increased use of multiprocessor systems. With modern software for concurrent processes, it is also possible to design a system as if it were composed of many different processes running asynchronously. There are also technical advantages in using different sampling rates for different variables.
