# Calculation of Variances

The variance of a signal obtained by filtering white noise can be calculated from the recursive equation of (10.11), if the model is given in state-space form. For a system described by transfer functions it is possible to use the same equations, if the model is first transformed to state-space form. It is naturally convenient to have similar formulas when the system is given in input-output form. Such formulas will now be given.

Consider a signal generated by

$$y (k) = \frac {B (q)}{A (q)} e (k) \tag {10.22}$$

where e is white noise with unit variance. It follows from Theorem 10.2 that the spectral density of the signal y is given by

$$\phi (\omega) = \frac {1}{2 \pi} \cdot \frac {B (z) B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z) A (z ^ {- 1})}$$

where $z = \exp(i\omega)$ . It also follows from Theorem 10.2 that the variance of the signal y is given by the complex integral

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathrm{E} y ^ {2} = \int_ {- \pi} ^ {\pi} \phi (\omega) d \omega = \frac {1}{i} \int_ {- \pi} ^ {\pi} \phi (\omega) e ^ {- i \omega} d (e ^ {i \omega}) \\ = \frac {1}{2 \pi i} \oint \frac {B (z) B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z) A (z ^ {- 1})} \cdot \frac {d z}{z} \tag {10.23} \\ \end{array}
$$

The evaluation of integrals of this form is closely related to Jury's stability test (compare with Sec. 3.2). To evaluate the integral, the following table is formed:

$$
\begin{array}{c c c c c c c c c c c} a _ {0} & a _ {1} & \dots & a _ {n - 1} & a _ {n} & & b _ {0} & b _ {1} & \dots & b _ {n - 1} & b _ {n} \\ a _ {n} & a _ {n - 1} & \dots & a _ {1} & a _ {0} & \alpha_ {n} & a _ {n} & a _ {n - 1} & \dots & a _ {1} & a _ {0} \\ \hline a _ {0} ^ {n - 1} & a _ {1} ^ {n - 1} & \dots & a _ {n - 1} ^ {n - 1} & & & b _ {0} ^ {n - 1} & b _ {1} ^ {n - 1} & \dots & b _ {n - 1} ^ {n - 1} \\ a _ {n - 1} ^ {n - 1} & a _ {n - 2} ^ {n - 1} & \dots & a _ {0} ^ {n - 1} & & \alpha_ {n - 1} & a _ {n - 1} ^ {n - 1} & a _ {n - 2} ^ {n - 1} & \dots & a _ {0} ^ {n - 1} \\ \hline \vdots & & & & & \\ \hline a _ {0} ^ {1} & a _ {1} ^ {1} & & & & b _ {0} ^ {1} & b _ {1} ^ {1} \\ a _ {1} ^ {1} & a _ {0} ^ {1} & & & \alpha_ {1} & a _ {1} ^ {1} & a _ {0} ^ {1} \\ \hline a _ {0} ^ {0} & . & & & 1 & b _ {0} ^ {0} \\ \hline \end{array}
$$

where

$$\alpha_ {n} = a _ {n} / a _ {0} \quad \beta_ {n} = b _ {n} / a _ {0}\alpha_ {k} = a _ {k} ^ {k} / a _ {0} ^ {k} \quad \beta_ {k} = b _ {k} ^ {k} / a _ {0} ^ {k}$$

and

$$a _ {i} ^ {k - 1} = a _ {i} ^ {k} - \alpha_ {k} a _ {k - i} ^ {k}b _ {i} ^ {k - 1} = b _ {i} ^ {k} - \beta_ {k} a _ {k - i} ^ {k}$$

The left half of the table is the same as Jury's stability test. The right half is built up in the same way with the exception that the even rows are taken from the left half of the table. The following theorem results.
