# Direct-Digital-Control Period

The early installations of control computers operated in a supervisory mode, either as an operator guide or as a set-point control. The ordinary analog-control equipment was needed in both cases. A drastic departure from this approach was made by Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) in England in 1962. A complete analog instrumentation for process control was replaced by one computer, a Ferranti Argus. The computer measured 224 variables and controlled 129 valves directly. This was the beginning of a new era in process control: Analog technology was simply replaced by digital technology; the function of the system was the same. The name direct digital control (DDC) was coined to emphasize that the computer-controlled the process directly. In 1962 a typical process-control computer could add two numbers in 100 $\mu$ s and multiply them in 1 ms. The MTBF was around 1000 h.

Cost was the major argument for changing the technology. The cost of an analog system increased linearly with the number of control loops; the initial cost of a digital system was large, but the cost of adding an additional loop was small. The digital system was thus cheaper for large installations. Another advantage was that operator communication could be changed drastically; an operator communication panel could replace a large wall of analog instruments. The panel used in the ICI system was very simple—a digital display and a few buttons.

Flexibility was another advantage of the DDC systems. Analog systems were changed by rewiring; computer-controlled systems were changed by reprogramming. Digital technology also offered other advantages. It was easy to have interaction among several control loops. The parameters of a control loop could be made functions of operating conditions. The programming was simplified by introducing special DDC languages. A user of such a language did not need to know anything about programming, but simply introduced inputs, outputs, regulator types, scale factors, and regulator parameters into tables. To the user the systems thus looked like a connection of ordinary regulators. A drawback of the systems was that it was difficult to do unconventional control strategies. This certainly hampered development of control for many years.
