# 9.1 Introduction

Design of algorithms for computer control is discussed in the previous chapters. The problem of implementing a control algorithm on a digital computer is discussed in this chapter. The control algorithms obtained in the previous chapters are discrete-time dynamic systems. The key problem is to implement a discrete-time dynamic system using a digital computer. An overview of this problem is given in Sec. 9.2, which shows that it is straightforward to obtain a computer code from the discrete-time algorithm. There are, however, several issues that must be considered. It is necessary to take the interfaces to the sensors, the actuators, and the human operators into account. It is also necessary to consider the numerical precision required.

The sensor interface is discussed in Sec. 9.3. This covers prefiltering and computational delays and shows that the computational delay depends critically on the details of the algorithm. Different ways to shorten the computational delay by reorganizing the code are discussed. Methods of filtering the signals effectively by introducing nonlinearities, which may reduce the influence of unreliable sensors, are shown. This is one of the major advantages of computer control. Most theory in this book deals with linear theory. There are, however, a few nonlinearities such as actuator saturation that must be taken into account. Different ways of handling these are discussed in Sec. 9.4. This leads to extensions of the methods for antireset windup used in classical process control.

The operator interface is important factor; it is discussed in Sec. 9.5. This includes treatment of operational modes and different ways to avoid switching transients. The information that should be displayed and different ways of influencing the control loop are also discussed. Digital computers offer many interesting possibilities; so far they have been used only to a very modest degree. There are many opportunities for innovations in this field. It is important to have sound numerics in the control algorithm, which is the topic of Sec. 9.6. Effects of a finite word length are also discussed. Realization of digital controllers is treated in Sec. 9.7. Programming of control algorithms is discussed in Sec. 9.8. For more ambitious systems in which parameters and control algorithms are changed on-line, it is necessary to understand concurrent programming.
