# 7.9 Multirate Sampling

So far only systems in which the A-D and the D-A conversions are made at the same rates have been discussed. In the discussion of postsampling filters in Sec. 7.4 it was indicated that it may be advantageous to make the D-A conversion more rapidly. There are also situations where the converse is true. It is, for example, difficult to implement antialiasing filters with long time constants using analog techniques. In such cases it is much easier to sample the signals rapidly with analog antialiasing filters and to do digital filtering afterward. In both cases the systems have two samplers that operate at different rates. This is called multirate sampling. Such sampling schemes may be necessary for systems with special data-transmission links or special sensors and actuators and are useful for improving the responses of systems in which measurements are obtained at slow rates, for example, when laboratory instruments are used. Multirate systems may allow better control of what happens between the sampling instante. In multivariable systems it may also be advantageous to have different sampling rates in different loops to reduce the computational load and to improve the numeric conditioning. Use of multirate sampling is also natural in multiprocessor systems.

A detailed treatment of multirate systems is outside the scope of this book; however, a short discussion of the major ideas will be given to show how the methods presented in the book can be extended to also cover multirate systems.
