# Outline of the Book

Background Material A broad outline of computer-controlled systems is presented in the first chapter. This gives a historical perspective on the development of computers, control systems, and relevant theory. Some key points of the theory and the behavior of computer-control systems are also given, together with many examples.

Analysis and Design of Discrete-Time Systems It is possible to make drastic simplifications in analysis and design by considering only the behavior of the system at the sampling instants. We call this the computer-oriented view. It is the view of the system obtained by observing its behavior through the numbers in the computer. The reason for the simplicity is that the system can be described by linear difference equations with constant coefficients. This approach is covered in Chapters 2, 3, 4 and 5. Chapter 2 describes how the discrets-time systems are obtained by sampling continuous-time systems. Both state-space models and input-output models are given. Basic properties of the models are also given together with mathematical tools such as the z-transform. Tools for analysis are presented in Chapter 3.

Chapter 4 deals with the traditional problem of state feedback and observers, but it goes much further than what is normally covered in similar textbooks. In particular, the chapter shows how to deal with load disturbances, feedforward, and command-signal following. Taken together, these features give the controller a structure that can cope with many of the cases typically found in applications. An educational advantage is that students are equipped with tools to deal with real design issues after a very short time.

Chapter 5 deals with the problems of Chapter 4 from the input-output point of view, thereby giving an alternative view on the design problem. All issues discussed in Chapter 4 are also treated in Chapter 5. This affords an excellent way to ensure a good understanding of similarities and differences between state-space and polynomial approaches. The polynomial approach also makes it possible to deal with the problems of modeling errors and robustness, which cannot be conveniently handled by state-space techniques.

Having dealt with specific design methods, we present general aspects of the design of control systems in Chapter 6. This covers structuring of large systems as well as bottom-up and top-down techniques.
