# 10.1 Introduction

The presence of disturbances is one of the main reasons for using control. Without disturbances there is no need for feedback control. The character of the disturbances imposes fundamental limitations on the performance of a control system. Measurement noise in a servo system limits the achievable bandwidth of the closed-loop system. The nature of the disturbances determines the quality of regulation in a process-control system. Disturbances also convey important information about the properties of the system. By investigating the characteristics of the disturbances it is thus possible to detect the status of the process, including beginning process malfunctions. We have already taken disturbances into account in the pole-placement design in Chapters 4 and 5. In this chapter we will give a systematic treatment of disturbances.

Different ways to describe disturbances and to analyze their effect on a system are discussed in this chapter. An overview of different ways to eliminate disturbances is first given. This includes use of feedback, feedforward, and prediction. The discussion gives a reason for the different ways of describing disturbances.

The classic disturbance models, impulse, step, ramp, and sinusoid, were discussed in Sec. 3.5. All these disturbances can be thought of as generated by linear systems with suitable initial conditions. The problem of analyzing the effect of disturbances on a linear system can then be reduced to an initial-value problem. From the input-output point of view, a disturbance may also be modeled as an impulse response of a linear filter. The disturbance analysis is then reduced to a response calculation. This is particularly useful for disturbances that are steps or sinusoids. In all cases the disturbance analysis can be done with the tools developed in Chapters 3 to 5, and 8. When the response of a system to a specific disturbance needs to be known, it is often necessary to resort to simulation. This is easily done with a simulation program because the disturbance analysis is again reduced to an initial-value problem.
