Broadening the View Although many issues in computer-controlled systems can be dealt with using the computer-oriented view, there are some questions that require a detailed study of the behavior of the system between the sampling instants. Such problems arise naturally if a computer-controlled system is investigated through the analog signals that appear in the process. We call this the process-oriented view. It typically leads to linear systems with periodic coefficients. This gives rise to phenomena such as aliasing, which may lead to very undesirable effects unless special precautions are taken. It is very important to understand both this and the design of anti-aliasing filters when investigating computer-controlled systems. Tools for this are developed in Chapter 7.

When upgrading older control equipment, sometimes analog designs of controllers may be available already. In such cases it may be cost effective to have methods to translate analog designs to digital control directly. Methods for this are given in Chapter 8.

Implementation It is not enough to know about methods of analysis and design. A control engineer should also be aware of implementation issues. These are treated in Chapter 9, which covers matters such as prefiltering and computational delays, numerics, programming, and operational aspects. At this stage the reader is well prepared for all steps in design, from concepts to computer implementation.

More Advanced Design Methods To make more effective designs of control systems it is necessary to better characterize disturbances. This is done in Chapter 10. Having such descriptions it is then possible to design for optimal performance. This is done using state-space methods in Chapter 11 and by using polynomial techniques in Chapter 12. So far it has been assumed that models of the processes and their disturbances are available. Experimental methods to obtain such models are described in Chapter 13.
