# Input-Output Models

For additional insight an input-output description of signals generated by linear difference equations is given. Notice that the signal x given by (10.7) can be described as the output of a linear dynamic system driven by white noise. From this viewpoint it is then natural to investigate how the properties of stochastic processes change when they are filtered by dynamic systems.

Analysis. Consider the system shown in Fig. 10.5. For simplicity it is assumed that the sampling period is chosen as the time unit. Assume that the input u is a stochastic process with a given mean-value function $m_{u}$ and a given covariance function $r_{u}$ . Let the pulse response of the system be $\{h(k), k = 0, 1, \ldots\}$ . Notice that h has also been used to denote the sampling period. It is, however, clear from the context what h should be. The input-output relationship is

$$y (k) = \sum_ {l = - \infty} ^ {k} h (k - l) u (l) = \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) u (k - n) \tag {10.12}$$

Taking mean values

$$m _ {y} (k) = \mathrm{E} y (k) = \mathrm{E} \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) u (k - n) \tag {10.13}= \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) \mathrm{E} u (k - n) = \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) m _ {u} (k - n)$$

The mean value of the output is thus obtained by sending the mean value of the input through the system.

To determine the covariance, first observe that a subtraction of (10.13) from (10.12) gives

$$y (k) - m _ {y} (k) = \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) \left(u (k - n) - m _ {u} (k - n)\right)$$

The difference between the input signal and its mean value thus propagates through the system in the same way as the input signal itself. When calculating the covariance, it can be assumed that the mean values are zero. This simplifies the writing. The definition of the covariance function gives

$$
\begin{array}{l} r _ {y} (\tau) = \operatorname{E} y (k + \tau) y ^ {T} (k) \\ = \mathrm{E} \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) u (k + \tau - n) \left(\sum_ {l = 0} ^ {\infty} h (l) u (k - l)\right) ^ {T} \\ = \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} \sum_ {l = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) \mathrm{E} \left(u (k + \tau - n) u ^ {T} (k - l)\right) h ^ {T} (l) \tag {10.14} \\ = \sum_ {n = 0} ^ {\infty} \sum_ {l = 0} ^ {\infty} h (n) r _ {u} (\tau + l - n) h ^ {T} (l) \\ \end{array}
$$

A similar calculation gives the following formula for the cross-covariance of the input and the output:
