# Pioneering Period

The work done by TRW and Texaco evoked substantial interest in process industries, among computer manufacturers, and in research organizations. The industries saw a potential tool for increased automation, the computer industries saw new markets, and universities saw a new research field. Many feasibility studies were initiated by the computer manufacturers because they were eager to learn the new technology and were very interested in knowing what a proper process-control computer should look like. Feasibility studies continued throughout the sixties.

The computer systems that were used were slow, expensive, and unreliable. The earlier systems used vacuum tubes. Typical data for a computer around 1958 were an addition time of 1 ms, a multiplication time of 20 ms, and a mean time between failures (MTBF) for a central processing unit of 50–100 h. To make full use of the expensive computers, it was necessary to have them perform many tasks. Because the computers were so unreliable, they controlled the process by printing instructions to the process operator or by changing the set points of analog regulators. These supervisory modes of operation were referred to as an operator guide and a set-point control.

The major tasks of the computer were to find the optimal operating conditions, to perform scheduling and production planning, and to give reports about production and raw-material consumption. The problem of finding the best operating conditions was viewed as a static optimization problem. Mathematical models of the processes were necessary in order to perform the optimization. The models used—which were quite complicated—were derived from physical models and from regression analysis of process data. Attempts were also made to carry out on-line optimization.

Progress was often hampered by lack of process knowledge. It also became clear that it was not sufficient to view the problems simply as static optimization problems; dynamic models were needed. A significant proportion of the effort in many of the feasibility studies was devoted to modeling, which was quite time-consuming because there was a lack of good modeling methodology. This stimulated research into system-identification methods.
