# Stochastic Processes

The concept of a stochastic process is complex. It took brilliant researchers hundreds of years to find the right ideas. The concept matured in work done by the mathematician Kolmogorov around 1930. A simple presentation of the ideas is given here. Interested readers are strongly urged to consult the references.

A stochastic process (random process, random function) can be regarded as a family of stochastic variables $\{x(t), t \in T\}$ . The stochastic variables are indexed with the parameter t, which belongs to the set T, called the index set. In stochastic-control theory, the variable t is interpreted as time. The set T is then the real variables. When considering sampled-data systems, as in this book, the set T is the sampling instants, that is, $T = \{\ldots, -h, 0, h, \ldots\}$ or $T = \{\ldots, -1, 0, 1, \ldots\}$ when the sampling period is chosen as the time unit. We then have a stochastic process.

A random process may be considered as a function $x(t,\omega)$ of two variables. For fixed $\omega = \omega_{0}$ the function $x(\cdot, \omega_{0})$ is an ordinary time function called a realization. For fixed $t = t_{0}$ , the function $x(t_{0}, \cdot)$ is a random variable. A random process can thus be viewed as generated from a random-signal generator. The argument $\omega$ is often suppressed.

Completely deterministic stochastic processes. One possibility of obtaining a random process is to pick the initial conditions of an ordinary differential equation as a random variable and to generate the time functions by solving the differential equations. These types of random processes are, however, not very interesting because they do not exhibit enough randomness. This is clearly seen by considering the stochastic process generated by an integrator with random initial conditions. Because the output of the integrator is constant it follows that

$$x (t, \omega) - x (t - h, \omega) = 0$$

for all t, h, and $\omega$ . A stochastic process with this property is called a completely deterministic stochastic process, because its future values can be predicted exactly from its past.

In general it will be said that a random process $x(t,\omega)$ is called completely deterministic if

$$\ell \Big (x (t, \omega) \Big) = 0 \quad \text { for almost all } \omega$$
