# Linear Analysis

The effects of roundoff and quantization may also be estimated by linear analysis. The idea is to represent the operations by their ideal models and an additive disturbance $e_{a}$ . The D-A and A-D converters are then simply represented as linear gains with a disturbance that models the quantization. With fixed-point calculations, the additions are exact. There will, however, be errors in multiplications. These are represented as exact multiplications, with an additive error, which represent the roundoff. This is illustrated in Fig. 9.14.

The errors may be modeled as deterministic or stochastic signals. In a deterministic model, the error is modeled as constants having the sizes of quantization errors and with the resolution in the arithmetic calculations. In the stochastic model, the error introduced by rounding or quantization is then described as additive white noise with a rectangular distribution. The errors at different sampling times are thus assumed to be uncorrelated. If the quantization is done as rounding, then the error is equally distributed over the interval $(-\delta/2, \delta/2)$ , where $\delta$ is the quantization step. If the quantization is done as truncation, the error is equally distributed over $(0, \delta)$ . A rectangular noise distributed over an interval of length $\delta$ has a variance of $\delta^{2}/12$ .

By using the linear models of roundoff and quantization, it is possible to reduce the problem of estimating the effect of the roundoff and quantization to the problem of calculating responses of a linear system to deterministic or stochastic inputs. By using the linear model, it is possible to assess the effects of quantization qualitatively without going into detailed calculation. It is also easy to compare roundoff with other disturbances in the system. In the linear model, the effect of roundoff in the A-D converter is the same as the effect of measurement noise. The effect on the control signal may be substantial for those frequencies where the controller has high gain. The effect of roundoff in the D-A converter is the same as a disturbance in the process input. Because the process normally attenuates high frequencies, the effect on the process output is normally small. Remember, however, that the linear model does not capture all aspects of roundoff.
