THEOREM 10.3 SPECTRAL FACTORIZATION THEOREM Given a spectral density $\phi(\omega)$ , which is rational in $\cos\omega$ , there exists a linear system with the pulse-transfer function

$$H (z) = \frac {B (z)}{A (z)} \tag {10.19}$$

such that the output obtained when the system is driven by white noise is a stationary random process with spectral density $\phi$ . The polynomial $A(z)$ has all its zeros inside the unit disc. The polynomial $B(z)$ has all its zeros inside the unit disc or on the unit circle.

Remark 1. The spectral factorization theorem is very important. It implies that all stationary random processes can be thought of as being generated by stable linear systems driven by white noise, that is, an ARMA process of a special type. This means a considerable simplification both in theory and practice. It is sufficient to understand how systems behave when excited by white noise. It is only necessary to be able to simulate white noise. All other stationary processes with rational spectral density can then be formed by filtering.

Remark 2. Because a continuous function can be approximated uniformly arbitrarily well on a compact interval with a rational function, it follows that the models in (10.7) and (10.12) can give signals whose spectra are arbitrarily close to any continuous function. Notice, however, that there are models with nonrational spectral densities. In turbulence theory, for instance, there are spectral densities that decay as fractional powers of $\omega$ for large $\omega$ .

An important consequence of the spectral factorization theorem is that for systems with one output, it is always possible to represent the net effect of all disturbances with one equivalent disturbance. This disturbance is obtained by calculating the total spectral density of the output signal and applying the spectral factorization theorem.

Remark 3. It is often assumed that the polynomial $B(z)$ has all its zeros inside the unit disc. This means that the inverse of the system $H$ is stable. The results are illustrated by two examples.
