# 4.1 Introduction

This chapter presents design methods based on internal models of the system. The methods developed in this chapter can be viewed as solutions to specific, idealized control problems. The solutions give insight into the nature of control problems. They also show that many of the concepts introduced earlier are useful. Control design involves compromises between conflicting goals. We capture this by introducing so-called design parameters that have to be chosen by the designer. See Sec. 4.2. In this chapter we will develop a collection of design methods that are called pole placement from the point of view of state feedback. The name pole placement refers to the fact that the design is formulated in terms of obtaining a closed-loop system with specified poles. The methods will be developed gradually. In Sec. 4.3 we will discuss an idealized regulation problem. It is assumed that all state variables are measured and the disturbances are widely spaced impulses. In Sec. 4.4 we will discuss the problem of reconstructing the states from measured outputs. This leads to the introduction of observers. By combining the observers with the state feedback obtained in Sec. 4.3, we obtain a solution to the regulation problem for the case of output feedback in Sec. 4.5. We will also generalize the disturbances by considering disturbances that are obtained as outputs of dynamic systems whose inputs are impulses. In this way we can deal with the classical cases of disturbances that are steps and sinusoids as well as many other cases. This also gives a very natural way to introduce integral action. So far we have only dealt with the regulation problem. In Sec. 4.6 we will discuss the servo problem, that is, how to obtain a system that can also follow command signals. This problem can also be well captured in the state-space formulation. By combining the result with the previous results we obtain a controller that can follow command signals and reject disturbances acting on the system. The controller structure obtained is very interesting because the different tasks of the controller are naturally separated. The design procedure is illustrated in Sec. 4.7 with an application to control of simple robotics system.
