Compare with Sec. 8.5. The need for changing the state when parameters are changed is dictated by the fact that the state of the controller depends on its parameters. One way to obtain bumpless parameter changes is to store a set of past input-output data and to run an observer when the controller parameters are changed. However, it is often possible to use a simpler solution.

To see what should be done, consider the algorithm of (9.5) with an explicit observer and state feedback. First, a realization should be chosen so that the matrices C and D do not depend on the adjustable parameters. If the state x represents an estimate of physical state variables, there are very few difficulties because the estimated state will not change drastically when model parameters are changed. Transients due to changes in the feedback gain cannot be avoided if there is a nonzero error $e = x - \hat{x}$ . Similarly, there will not be any switching transients with the algorithm in (9.10), provided that there is a representation in which the matrices C and D do not contain any parameters that are modified. It is more complicated to see what should be done with the algorithm of (9.12). In the representation of (9.12), the state is delayed inputs and outputs. This state is not minimal. Although the state does not depend on the coefficients of the polynomials R, S, and T, there is no guarantee that the given R, S, T, u, and y are compatible with Eq. (9.12). With the representation of (9.12), there will be switching transients when the parameters are changed.
