# Logic, Sequencing, and Control

Industrial automation systems have traditionally had two components, controllers and relay logic. Relays were used to sequence operations such as startup and shutdown and they were also used to ensure safety of the operations by providing interlocks. Relays and controllers were handled by different categories of personnel at the plant. Instrument engineers were responsible for the controllers and electricians were responsible for the relay systems. We have already discussed how the controllers were influenced by microcomputers. The relay systems went through a similar change with the advent of microelectronics. The so-called programmable logic controller (PLC) emerged in the beginning of the 1970s as replacements for relays. They could be programmed by electricians and in familiar notations, that is, as rungs of relay contact logic or as logic (AND/OR) statements. Americans were the first to bring this novelty to the market, relying primarily on relay contact logic, but the Europeans were hard on their heels, preferring logic statements. The technology became a big success, primarily in the discrete parts manufacturing industry (for obvious reasons). However, in time, it evolved to include regulatory control and data-handling capabilities as well, a development that has broadened the range of applications for it. The attraction was, and is, the ease with which controls, including intraloop dependencies, can be implemented and changed, without any impact on hardware.
