# 7.1 Introduction

Mathematical models for a sampled-data system from the point of view of the computer are developed in Chapter 2. These models are quite simple. The variables that represent the measured signal and the control signal are considered at the sampling instants only. These variables change in a given time sequence in synchronization with the clock. The signals are naturally represented in the computer as sequences of numbers. Thus the time-varying nature of sampled-data systems can be ignored, because the signals are considered only at times that are synchronized with the clock in the system. The sampled-data system can then be described as a time-invariant discrete-time system. The model obtained is called the stroboscopic model.

The stroboscopic model has the great advantage of being simple. Most of the problems in analysis and design of sampled-data systems can fortunately be handled by this model. The model will also give a complete description of the system as long as it is observed from the computer, but sometimes this is not enough. The main deficiency is that the model does not tell what happens between the sampling instants. Therefore it is useful to have other models that give a more detailed description. Such models are needed when the computer-controlled system is observed from the process, for example, if a frequency response is performed by cutting the loop on the analog side. The models required are necessarily more complicated than those discussed in Chapter 3 because the periodic nature of the system must be dealt with explicitly to describe the intersample behavior.

A detailed description of the major events in a computer-controlled system is given in Sec. 7.2. Section 7.3 give a discussion of sampling and reconstructing continuous-time signals. The alias problem encountered in Chapters 1 and 2 is analyzed in Sec. 7.4. Control of a system using predictive first-order-hold is discussed in Sec. 7.5. The key problem when making process-oriented models is the description of the sampling process. This is described using the modulation model in Sec. 7.6. Section 7.7 deals with the frequency response of sampled-data systems—several unexpected things can happen. The results give more insight into the aliasing problem. An algebraic system theory for sampled-data systems is outlined in Sec. 7.8. Multirate systems are discussed in Sec. 7.9.
