# 5.1 Introduction

In this chapter we will discuss the same design problems as in Chapter 4 but we will use polynomial calculations instead of matrix calculations. This gives new insights and new computational methods. In addition we will be able to investigate consequences of errors in the model used to design the controller. The idea of pole placement is to find a controller that gives a closed-loop system with a specified characteristic polynomial. It is natural to explore if this can be done directly by polynomial calculations.

We start by describing a process model and a controller as input-output systems characterized by rational transfer functions. The design problem is then solved in a simple setting in Sec. 5.2. The design problem is identical to the one posed in Secs. 4.2 and 4.5. A polynomial equation is a crucial part of the solution. This equation is investigated in Sec. 5.3, where we give conditions for solvability and algorithms. In Sec. 5.4 we solve more realistic design problems. We consider cancellation of poles and zeros, separation of command signal responses and disturbance responses, and improved responses to disturbances. In Sec. 5.5 we consider the problem of modeling errors, which is much more convenient to deal with in the input-output formulation than in the state-space formulation. In Sec. 5.6 we summarize results and obtain a general design procedure. Some practical aspects are also discussed in that section.

The chapter ends with several design examples that illustrate the procedure. Control of a double integrator is discussed in Sec. 5.7, an harmonic oscillator in Sec. 5.8, and a flexible robot arm in Sec. 5.9. Many other design procedures can be expressed in terms of pole placement. This gives insight and gives a unified view, as is illustrated in Sec. 5.10.
