The ultimate-sensitivity method In this method the key idea is to determine the point where the Nyquist curve of the open-loop system intersects the negative real axis. This is done by connecting the controller to the process and setting the parameters so that pure proportional control is obtained. The gain of the controller is then increased until the closed-loop system reaches the stability limit. The gain $(K_{u})$ when this occurs and the period of the oscillation $(T_{u})$ are determined. These parameters are called ultimate gain and ultimate period. The controller parameters are then given by Table 8.3.

Assessment The Ziegler-Nichols tuning rules are conceptually attractive. Process dynamics is characterized by two parameters that are easy to determine experimentally and the controller parameters are then obtained from simple tables. Because of this the rules have been very popular; they are the basis for much of practical controller tuning. The Ziegler-Nichols rules do however have some very serious drawbacks. The closed-loop systems obtained with the rules have very low relative damping typically about $\zeta \approx 0.2$ . The tuning rules do not give all controller parameters, and the integrations time is always four times the derivative time. The damping can be improved by modifying the numerical values in the tables. To characterize process dynamics by two parameters is quite crude. More parameters are required for improved tuning. Much can be gained by also including the static gain $K_{p}$ of a process. Tuning rules of the Ziegler-Nichols type should therefore be used with care. They can give a rough approximation but the tuning can often be improved.

Table 8.2 PID parameters obtained from the Ziegler-Nichols step-response method.

<table><tr><td>Controller Type</td><td>K</td><td> $T_i$ </td><td> $T_d$ </td></tr><tr><td>P</td><td>1/a</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>PI</td><td>0.9/a</td><td>3L</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>PID</td><td>1.2/a</td><td>2L</td><td>0.5L</td></tr></table>

Table 8.3 PID parameters obtained from Ziegler-Nichols ultimate-sensitivity method.

<table><tr><td>Controller Type</td><td>K</td><td> $T_{t}$ </td><td> $T_{d}$ </td></tr><tr><td>P</td><td> $0.5K_{u}$ </td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>PI</td><td> $0.45K_{u}$ </td><td> $T_{u}/1.2$ </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>PID</td><td> $0.6K_{u}$ </td><td> $T_{u}/2$ </td><td> $T_{u}/8$ </td></tr></table>
