What theory can contribute to the design process is to give insight and understanding. In particular, theory can often pinpoint fundamental limitations on control performance. There are also some idealized design problems, which can be solved theoretically. Such solutions can often give good insight into suitable structures and algorithms.

It is also useful to remember that control problems can be widely different in nature. They can range from design of a simple loop in a given system to design of an integrated control system for a complete process. The approach to design can also be widely different for mass-produced systems, and one-of-a-kind systems. For mass-produced systems, a substantial effort can be made to obtain a cheap system that will give good performance. For unique systems, it is often much better to install a flexible standard system and to tune it in situ.

The relation between process design and control design is also important. Control systems have traditionally been introduced into given processes to simplify or improve their operation. It has, however, become clear that much can be gained by considering process design and control design in one context. The availability of a control system always gives the designer an extra degree of freedom, which frequently can be used to improve performance or economy. Similarly, there are many situations where difficult control problems arise because of improper process design. An understanding of control also makes it possible to design a process so that difficult control problems are avoided.
