# 9.11 Notes and References

Design of filters is covered in standard texts on networks. Kuo (1980) and Williams (1981) are good sources. Useful practical advice is also found in the handbooks published by manufacturers of operational amplifiers. Such handbooks are also useful for information about A-D and D-A converters. Make sure to get a new version of whatever handbook you use because the technology changes rapidly.

The problems associated with windup of PID-controllers is discussed in trade journals for the process industry. The general approach given in Sec. 9.4 was introduced in earlier editions of this book, see Åström and Hägglund (1995). The generalized form in Fig. 9.9 is described in Rönnbäck, Walgama, and Sternby (1992). Other references on antireset windup are Hanus (1988) and Græbe and Ahlén (1996). Possibilities for error detection and rejection of outliers are discussed in depth in Willsky (1979), which also contains many references.

A comprehensive text on the effects of quantization and roundoff in digital control systems is Moroney (1983), which contains many references. The following papers are classics in the area, Bertram (1958), Slaughter (1964), Knowles and Edwards (1965), Curry (1967), and Rink and Chong (1979). Describing function analysis is discussed in Atherton (1975, 1982). Limit cycles due to roundoff can be determined using the theory of relay oscillations. This is described in Tsypkin (1984).

A review of digital signal processors is given in Lee (1988). Design of special-purpose signal processors in VLSI is described in Catthoor et al. (1988) and in a series of books titled VLSI Signal Processing I, II, and III, published by IEEE. The books are based on presentations given at IEEE ASSIP workshops. The 1988 volume is Brown and Campbell (1948). A readable account of the IEEE standard and its impact on different high-level languages is found in Fateman (1982). Problems associated with quantization, roundoff, and overflow are also discussed in the signal-processing literature. Overviews are found in Oppenheim and Schafer (1989). Specialized issues are discussed in Jackson (1970a, 1970b, 1979), Parker and Hess (1971), Willson (1972a, 1972b), and Buttner (1977).
