# 6.1 Introduction

This chapter views the control problem in a wider perspective. In practice, more time is often spent formulating control problems than on solving them. It is therefore useful to be aware of these more general problems, although they are seldom discussed in textbooks.

Most control problems arise from design of engineering systems. Such problems are typically large-scale and poorly defined. Typical tasks are design of power plants, chemical processes, rolling mills, industrial robots, aircraft, space vehicles, and biomedical systems. Control theory on the other hand deals with small-scale, well-defined problems. A typical problem is to design a feedback law for a given system, which is described by linear differential equations with constant coefficients, so that the closed-loop system has given poles.

A major difficulty in control-system design is to reconcile the large-scale, poorly defined, real problems with the simple, well-defined problems that control theory can handle. It is, however, in this intermediate area that a control engineer can use creativity and ingenuity effectively. This situation is not peculiar to control engineering. Similar situations are encountered in almost all fields of engineering design. Control is, however, one field of engineering in which a comparatively sophisticated theory is needed to understand the problems.

It is useful to have some perspective on the design process and a feel for the role of theory in the design process. First, a good engineering design must satisfy a large number of specifications, and there often are many equally good solutions to a design problem. A good design is often a compromise based on reasonable trade-offs between cost and performance. Sadly enough, it is often true that the best is the worst enemy of the good. Consequently, when words like optimal are used in this context, they should be taken with a grain of salt.

Another aspect is that design is often arrived at by interaction between customer and vendor. Many subjective factors—such as pride, tradition, and ambition—enter into this interaction. This situation with regard to customer preference is particularly confused when technology is changing. Typical examples are discussions concerning pneumatic or electronic controllers or analog versus digital control, which have been abundant in the trade journals.
