# Controllability, Observability, and Dynamics

When designing a process, it is very important to make sure that all the important process variables can be changed conveniently. The word controllability is often used in this context, although it is interpreted in a much wider sense than in the formal controllability concepts introduced in Sec. 3.4.

To obtain plants that are controllable in the wide sense, it is first necessary to have a sufficient number of actuators. If there are four important process variables that should be manipulated separately, there must be at least four actuators. Moreover, the system should be such that the static relationship between the process variables and the actuators is one-to-one. To achieve good control, the dynamic relationship between the actuators and the process variables should ideally be such that tight control is possible. This means that time delays and nonminimum phase relations should be avoided. Ideally the dynamic relations should be like an integrator or a first-order lag. It is, however, often difficult to obtain such processes. Nonminimum phase loops are therefore common in the dynamics of industrial processes.

Simple dynamic models are often very helpful in assessing system dynamics at the stage of process design. Actuators should be designed so that the process variables can be changed over a sufficient range with a good resolution. The relationships should also be such that the gain does not change too much over the whole operating range. A common mistake in flow systems is to choose a control valve that is too large. This leads to a very nonlinear relation between valve opening and flow. The flow changes very little when the valve opening is reduced until the valve is almost closed. There is then a drastic change in flow over a very small range of valve position.

The process must also have appropriate sensors, whose signals are closely related to the important process variables. Sensors need to be located properly to give signals that are representative for the important process variables. For example, care must be taken not to position sensors in pockets where the properties of the process fluid may not be typical. Time delays must also be avoided. Time lags can occur due to factors such as transportation or encapsulation of temperature sensors.

Simple dynamic models, combined with observability analysis, are very useful to assess suggested arrangements of sensors and actuators. It is also very useful for this purpose to estimate time constants from simple dynamic models.
