# Spectral Factorization

Theorem 10.2 gives the spectral density of a stochastic process obtained by filtering another stochastic process. The spectral density of a signal obtained by filtering white noise is obtained as a special case. The inverse problem is discussed next. A linear system that gives an output with a given spectral density when driven by white noise will be determined. This problem is important because it shows how a signal with a given spectral density can be generated by filtering white noise. The solution to the problem will also tell how general the model in (10.7) is. It follows from Theorem 10.2 that the random process generated from a linear system with a white-noise input has the spectral density given by (10.17). If the system is finite-dimensional, H is then a rational function in $\exp(i\omega)$ and the spectral density $\phi$ will also be rational in $\exp(i\omega)$ or equivalently in $\cos\omega$ . With a slight abuse of language, such a spectral density is called rational. Introducing

$$z = e ^ {i \omega}$$

the right-hand side of (10.17) can be written as

$$F (z) = \frac {1}{2 \pi} H (z) H ^ {T} (z ^ {- 1})$$

If $z_{i}$ is a zero of $H(z)$ , then $z_{i}^{-1}$ is a zero of $H(z^{-1})$ . The zeros of the function F are thus symmetric with respect to the real axis and mirrored in the unit circle. If the coefficients of the rational function H are real, the zeros of the function F will also be symmetric with respect to the real axis. The same argument holds for the poles of H. The poles and zeros of F will thus have the pattern illustrated in Fig. 10.7.

It is now straightforward to find a function H that corresponds to a given rational spectral density as follows: First, determine the poles $p_{i}$ and the zeros $z_{i}$ of the function F associated with the spectral density. It follows from the symmetry of the poles and zeros, which has just been established, that the poles and zeros always appear in pairs such that

$$z _ {i} z _ {j} = 1p _ {i} p _ {j} = 1$$

In each pair choose the pole or the zero that is less than or equal to one in magnitude; then form the desired transfer function from the chosen poles and zeros as

$$H (z) = K \frac {\prod (z - z _ {i})}{\prod (z - p _ {i})} = \frac {B (z)}{A (z)}$$

Because the stochastic process is stationary, the chosen poles $p_{i}$ will all be strictly less than one in magnitude. There may, however, be zeros that have unit magnitude. The result is summarized as follows.
