# Microcomputer Period and General Use of Computer Control

The early use of computer control was restricted to large industrial systems because digital computing was only available in expensive, large, slow, and unreliable machines. The minicomputer was still a fairly large system. Even as performance continued to increase and prices to decrease, the price of a minicomputer mainframe in 1975 was still about \$10,000. This meant that a small system rarely cost less than \$100,000. Computer control was still out of reach for a large number of control problems. But with the development of the microcomputer in 1972, the price of a card computer with the performance of a 1975 minicomputer dropped to \$500 in 1980. Another consequence was that digital computing power in 1980 came in quanta as small as \$50. The development of microelectronics has continued with advances in very large-scale integration (VLSI) technology; in the 1990s microprocessors became available for a few dollars. This has had a profound impact on the use of computer control. As a result practically all controllers are now computer-based. Mass markets such as automotive electronics has also led to the development of special-purpose computers, called microcontrollers, in which a standard computer chip has been augmented with A-D and D-A converters, registers, and other features that make it easy to interface with physical equipment.

Practically all control systems developed today are based on computer control. Applications span all areas of control, generation, and distribution of electricity; process control; manufacturing; transportation; and entertainment. Mass-market applications such as automotive electronics, CD players, and videos are particularly interesting because they have motivated computer manufacturers to make chips that can be used in a wide variety of applications.
