# Spectral Factorization

It follows from (10.32) that if the input is white noise with $\phi_{u} = 1$ , then the spectral density of the output is given by

$$\phi_ {y} (\omega) = G (i \omega) G ^ {T} (- i \omega) \tag {10.33}$$

This means that any disturbance whose spectral density can be written in this form may be generated by sending continuous-time white noise through a filter with the transfer function G.

Because linear finite-dimensional systems have rational transfer functions, it follows that signals with arbitrary rational spectral densities can be generated from linear finite-dimensional systems. The covariance function is nonnegative and symmetric. It then follows from (10.24) that $\phi$ is also symmetric. If $\phi$ is rational it then follows that its poles and zeros are symmetric with respect to the real and imaginary axes. The transfer function G in (10.33) can then be chosen so that all its poles are in the left half-plane and all its zeros in the left half-plane or on the imaginary axis. The following analog of Theorem 10.3 is thus obtained.

THEOREM 10.7 SPECTRAL FACTORIZATION Given a rational spectral density $\phi(\omega)$ , there exists a linear finite-dimensional system with the rational transfer function

$$G (s) = \frac {B (s)}{A (s)}$$

such that the output obtained when the system is driven by white noise is a stationary stochastic process with the given spectral density. The polynomial A has all its zeros in the left half-plane. The polynomial B has no zeros in the right half-plane.
