# Preface

A consequence of the revolutionary advances in microelectronics is that practically all control systems constructed today are based on microprocessors and sophisticated microcontrollers. By using computer-controlled systems it is possible to obtain higher performance than with analog systems, as well as new functionality. New software tools have also drastically improved the engineering efficiency in analysis and design of control systems.

Goal of the book This book provides the necessary insight, knowledge, and understanding required to effectively analyze and design computer-controlled systems.

The new edition This third edition is a major revision based on the advances in technology and the experiences from teaching to academic and industrial audiences. The material has been drastically reorganized with more than half the text rewritten. The advances in theory and practice of computer-controlled systems and a desire to put more focus on design issues have provided the motivation for the changes in the third edition. Many new results have been incorporated. By ruthless trimming and rewriting we are now able to include new material without increasing the size of the book. Experiences of teaching from a draft version have shown the advantages of the changes. We have been very pleased to note that students can indeed deal with design at a much earlier stage. This has also made it possible to go much more deeply into design and implementation.

Another major change in the third edition is that the computational tools MATLAB® and SIMULINK® have been used extensively. This changes the pedagogy in teaching substantially. All major results are formulated in such a way that the computational tools can be applied directly. This makes it easy to deal with complicated problems. It is thus possible to deal with many realistic design issues in the courses. The use of computational tools has been balanced by a strong emphasis of principles and ideas. Most key results have also been illustrated by simple pencil and paper calculations so that the students understand the workings of the computational tools.
