Figure 9.20 shows the Bode diagram for the RC circuit and verifies our previous estimates for the magnitude plot. Note that the magnitude remains very close to 0 dB until the input frequency reaches about 40 rad/s; hence, the amplitude of the output voltage signal will essentially match the amplitude of the input voltage signal for $\omega < 4 0$ rad/s. Because we want to find the frequency where the output/input amplitude ratio is reduced to onehalf, we must find the magnitude in decibels that corresponds to $| G ( j \omega ) | = 0 . 5$ in order to use the Bode diagram. Therefore,

$$\left| G (j \omega) \right| _ {\mathrm{dB}} = 2 0 \log_ {1 0} (0. 5) = - 6. 0 2 \mathrm{dB}$$

The 6-dB drop from the low-frequency asymptote is shown in Fig. 9.20 as a dashed line that intersects the magnitude plot at a frequency of about 144 rad/s. Hence, the amplitude of the output voltage $e _ { C } ( t )$ will be reduced to one-half of the input voltage amplitude when the input frequency is $\omega = 1 4 4$ rad/s (or, 22.9 Hz).

The RC circuit in Fig. 9.19 is a simple example of a low-pass filter, which is an electronic circuit that allows signals with “low” frequencies to “pass” without reduction in amplitude. Signals with frequencies higher than a prescribed “cutoff frequency” are attenuated (i.e., the output amplitude is reduced). In this example, the values of resistance R and capacitance C have been selected so that the output/input amplitude ratio is greater than 0.5 for input frequencies $\omega <$ 144 rad/s (note that the amplitude ratio is essentially unity for $\omega < 4 0 \mathrm { r a d / s } )$ ). We discuss and define the cutoff frequency in a later section.
