Engineers must remember that the results obtained for a particular mathematical model are only approximate and are valid only to the extent of the assumptions used to derive the model. The model must be sufficiently sophisticated to demonstrate the significant features of the dynamic response without becoming too cumbersome for the available analysis tools. The validity of a mathematical model can often be verified by comparing the model solution (such as simulation results) with experimental results. The Shuttle Avionics Integration Laboratory (SAIL) was a hardware-in-the-loop test facility at NASA Johnson Space Center [1]. SAIL consisted of actual Space Shuttle hardware (such as the flight deck, cockpit displays, sensors, and electronic wiring) and mathematical models of the physical forces due to aerodynamics, gravity, and propulsion. Engineers and astronauts used SAIL to perform “real-time” simulations of Space Shuttle missions in order to test and validate the flight software. The simulation results from SAIL tests showed an excellent match with actual Shuttle flight data. SAIL tests, however, could occasionally be intermittent owing to their reliance on using very complex mathematical models (i.e., computer software) to interface with and drive all of the physical Shuttle hardware. The SAIL facility is an example of one extreme end of the mathematical modeling spectrum: a complex, “high-fidelity” simulation that was at times prone to sporadic testing. This trade-off was necessary in order to accurately model the Shuttle’s flight dynamics.
