# Example 2.9

Figure 2.26 shows a dual-disk mechanical system that has been proposed as an efficient generator for hybrid vehicles [3]. Derive the complete mathematical model.

The mechanical system represented by Fig. 2.26 is composed of a toroidal-segment piston (disk $J _ { 1 } )$ matched with a toroidal-segment cylinder (disk $J _ { 2 } )$ . Both disks rotate about a common axis. The disks are connected by a torsional spring, represented by rotational spring constant k. Angular displacements $\theta _ { 1 }$ (piston disk) and $\theta _ { 2 }$ (cylinder disk) are measured from their equilibrium positions, with positive rotation as clockwise when viewing the system from the left. Both disks experience friction, which is modeling by viscous friction coefficient b. A gaspressure torque from a diesel engine, $T _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ , drives the two-disk system in equal-and-opposite pairs as indicated in Fig. 2.26. Angular rotation of the disks relative to stationary magnets generates electrical current and reaction torques, but these effects are not included in this example. During the normal operating mode, the input engine torque $T _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ is pulsed so that the elastic system deflects in a manner such that both disks vibrate about a mean angular motion in one direction. At this early stage of the textbook, it is important that the reader is able to derive the mathematical model given the mechanical system with its displacement and input variables defined in Fig. 2.26.
