$$\text { Mass 1: } + \uparrow \sum F = - k _ {2} (z _ {1} - z _ {2}) - b _ {2} (\dot {z} _ {1} - \dot {z} _ {2}) - k _ {1} (z _ {1} - z _ {0}) - b _ {1} (\dot {z} _ {1} - \dot {z} _ {0}) = m _ {1} \ddot {z} _ {1}\text { Mass 2: } + \uparrow \sum F = k _ {2} (z _ {1} - z _ {2}) + b _ {2} (\dot {z} _ {1} - \dot {z} _ {2}) = m _ {2} \ddot {z} _ {2}$$

Rearranging these equations with the dynamic variables $( z _ { 1 }$ and $z _ { 2 } )$ on the left-hand side and the input variable $( z _ { 0 } )$ on the right-hand side, we have

$$m _ {1} \ddot {z} _ {1} + b _ {1} \dot {z} _ {1} + b _ {2} (\dot {z} _ {1} - \dot {z} _ {2}) + k _ {1} z _ {1} + k _ {2} (z _ {1} - z _ {2}) = b _ {1} \dot {z} _ {0} (t) + k _ {1} z _ {0} (t) \tag {2.25a}m _ {2} \ddot {z} _ {2} + b _ {2} (\dot {z} _ {2} - \dot {z} _ {1}) + k _ {2} (z _ {2} - z _ {1}) = 0 \tag {2.25b}$$

Equations (2.25a) and (2.25b) represent the mathematical model of the seat-suspension system. Because we have two inertia elements, the complete model consists of two second-order ODEs. Both ODEs are coupled, which means we cannot solve one ODE separately from the other. The model is linear because we have assumed linear stiffness and damper elements. Furthermore, the reader should note that all terms pertaining to the acceleration, velocity, and position of mass $m _ { 1 }$ in Eq. (2.25a) have the same sign, that is, they are positive. Similarly, all terms associated with $z _ { 2 }$ (and its derivatives) in Eq. (2.25b) have the same sign. In general, this condition holds for a system that is inherently stable. Intuition tells us that the seat-suspension system in Fig. 2.12 is stable and will always return to static equilibrium when input vibrations $z _ { 0 } ( t )$ have ceased. In Chapter 7, we discuss stability in detail when we investigate the response of dynamic systems.
