# 10.2 FEEDBACK CONTROL SYSTEMS

So far we have only considered the response of open-loop dynamic systems. For example, Fig. 10.1 shows the simplified solenoid actuator–valve system studied in Chapters 7 and 9 (see Examples 7.4 and 9.4). Figure 10.1 is an example of an open-loop system where the overall system input, voltage signal $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ , does not depend on the system output, spool-valve position y(t). Suppose we want to position and hold the valve at $y = 0 . 0 0 3$ m (3 mm). Because the DC gain of the complete system in Fig. 10.1 is (12∕1.5) ⋅ (1∕7000) = 0.001143 m/V, a step voltage input $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t ) = 2 . 6 2 5 \ : \mathrm { V }$ will produce the desired 3-mm steady-state valve position (recall that the steady-state response is the product of the constant input and the DC gain). However, the reader should note that the linear transfer functions in Fig. 10.1 may not exactly represent the true dynamics of the solenoid or spool valve owing to modeling uncertainties in viscous friction, solenoid inductance, and so on. Hence, our calculated step voltage $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t ) = 2 . 6 2 5 \ : \mathrm { V }$ may not exactly produce the desired 3-mm valve position. Furthermore, the open-loop system in Fig. 10.1 has no way to automatically adjust the voltage input to position the valve at precisely 3 mm. In order to automatically correct the voltage signal, it must become a function of the valve-position error. Consequently, we must measure the valve position y(t) and feed this information back to the solenoid actuator in order to “close the loop” and therefore create a closed-loop control system.
