# 4.4 THERMAL SYSTEMS

Thermal systems involve the storage and flow of heat energy. Temperature T (in kelvin, K) is the principal dynamic variable of interest and heat flow rate q is also a fundamental variable in thermal models. Heat energy has units of joules (J), and, therefore, the rate of heat transfer q has units J/s or watts (W), which has the same units as power. Thermal system models are derived by applying the conservation of energy to the system boundary and noting the heat energy rates into and out of the system. Figure 4.17 shows an open thermal system with a boundary that encloses a thermal capacitance C. The boundary could be an insulating material that impedes the flow of heat energy. Heat energy could flow into the capacitance (e.g., a heating element) or heat energy could flow out of the capacitance (e.g., heat flowing from a hot chamber to the colder ambient surroundings). Furthermore, heat energy can enter or leave the system because of mass transferring across the boundary (e.g., fluid flow). Applying the conservation of energy to the system boundary in Fig. 4.17 yields

$$\dot {\xi} _ {h} = \sum \dot {h} _ {\text { in }} - \sum \dot {h} _ {\text { out }} + \sum q _ {\text { in }} - \sum q _ {\text { out }} \tag {4.80}$$

where $\dot { \xi } _ { h }$ is the net time-rate of heat energy stored within the system boundary. The time-rate of enthalpy ḣ is because of mass transferring across the system boundary. Therefore, the rate of enthalpy change is zero for a closed thermal system (i.e., no mass transfer). Equation (4.80) assumes that the system does not generate heat within the boundary and no work is done on the system or by the system. The energy balance equation (4.80) is essentially the first law of thermodynamics expressed as the time-rate of energy contained within the system boundary.
