Electromagnetic
force, Fem
+x
m
Actuator–valve mass
Return spring
force, kx
Friction
force, bẋ
</details>

Figure 3.24 Free-body diagram of the solenoid actuator.

$$+ \rightarrow \sum F = F _ {\mathrm{em}} - k x - b \dot {x} = m \ddot {x}$$

Grouping all terms involving displacement x yields

$$m \ddot {x} + b \dot {x} + k x = F _ {\mathrm{em}} \tag {3.100}$$

In order to complete the model we need an expression for the electromagnetic force $F _ { \mathrm { e m } } ,$ , which is generated by the energy stored in the solenoid coil. From work and energy principles, we know that the product of the electromagnetic force and an incremental displacement dx is equal to an incremental change in energy $d \xi$

$$F _ {\mathrm{em}} d x = d \xi$$

or, solving for the electromagnetic force

$$F _ {\mathrm{em}} = \frac {d \xi}{d x} \tag {3.101}$$

Equation (3.11) states that the energy stored in an inductor is due to the inductance and the current

$$\xi = \frac {1}{2} L I ^ {2}$$

Therefore, taking the derivative of energy with respect to displacement x and substituting the result into Eq. (3.101) yields an expression for the electromagnetic force

$$F _ {\mathrm{em}} = \frac {1}{2} \frac {d L}{d x} I ^ {2} \tag {3.102}$$

We see that the electromagnetic force is a nonlinear function of current and displacement as Eq. (3.98) shows that the derivative $L _ { x }$ is a nonlinear function of x.

The complete mathematical model of the solenoid actuator consists of the electrical system equation (3.99) and the mechanical system equation (3.100) with Eq. (3.102) used to define the electromagnetic force

$$L (x) \dot {I} + R I = e _ {\text { in }} (t) - L _ {x} \dot {x} I \tag {3.103}m \ddot {x} + b \dot {x} + k x = \frac {1}{2} L _ {x} I ^ {2} \tag {3.104}$$

We see that the mathematical model of the solenoid actuator is third order: one first-order ODE for the solenoid circuit and one second-order ODE for the mechanical mass. The dynamic variables are the coil current I and plunger displacement x, and the system input variable is armature voltage $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ . Equations (3.103) and (3.104) are coupled nonlinear differential equations. The reader should recall that Eqs. (3.91) and (3.98) are also needed to define inductance $L ( x )$ and its derivative $L _ { x }$ , both of which are nonlinear functions of plunger displacement.
