Note the similarity between the capacitor circuit modeled by Eq. (3.112) and the inductor solenoid circuit modeled by Eq. (3.103). Both circuits contain energy storage elements that change with position, C(x) or L(x), and both circuits contain nonlinear back-emf (voltage) terms that depend on velocity, $R C _ { x } \dot { x } e _ { C }$ and $L _ { x } { \dot { x } } I$ .

The mathematical model of the mechanical component of the microactuator is derived using a freebody diagram that is essentially identical to the solenoid free-body diagram shown in Fig. 3.24 except that the electrostatic force $F _ { \mathrm { e s } }$ pulls the drive comb to the left (see Fig. 3.26). Applying Newton’s second law yields the familiar mass–spring–damper modeling equation

$$m \ddot {x} + b \dot {x} + k x = F _ {\mathrm{es}} \tag {3.113}$$

In order to complete the model, we need an expression for the electrostatic force $F _ { \mathrm { e s } }$ , which is generated by the energy stored in the capacitor. We use the same work and energy principles that we employed to obtain the electromagnetic force $F _ { \mathrm { e m } }$ for the solenoid, that is,

$$F _ {\mathrm{es}} = \frac {d \xi}{d x} \tag {3.114}$$

Equation (3.6) shows that the energy stored in a capacitor is due to its capacitance and its voltage

$$\xi = \frac {1}{2} C e _ {c} ^ {2}$$

Therefore, taking the derivative of energy with respect to displacement x and substituting the result into Eq. (3.114) yields an expression for the electrostatic force

$$F _ {\mathrm{es}} = \frac {1}{2} \frac {d C}{d x} e _ {C} ^ {2} \tag {3.115}$$

We see that the electrostatic force is a nonlinear function of voltage $e _ { C }$ . Equation (3.110) shows that $d C / d x$ is a constant.

The complete mathematical model of the comb-drive actuator consists of the electrical system equation (3.112) and the mechanical system equation (3.113) with Eq. (3.115) used to define the electrostatic force

$$R C (x) \dot {e} _ {C} + e _ {C} = e _ {\text { in }} (t) - R C _ {x} \dot {x} e _ {C} \tag {3.116}m \ddot {x} + b \dot {x} + k x = \frac {1}{2} C _ {x} e _ {C} ^ {2} \tag {3.117}$$
