Figure 6.12 shows the Simulink diagram of the spool-valve system using the integrator-block approach. The simulation is initially constructed by connecting two Integrator blocks from the Continuous library. The friction force is produced by “picking off” the velocity signal (y-dot, the output of the first integrator) and multiplying by a Gain block that represents the viscous friction coefficient. The stiffness force is constructed in a similar manner using position y (the user should note that the triangular Gain block can be “flipped” in direction by highlighting the block and selecting Rotate & Flip under the Diagram menu). All three forces are added together in a summing junction (Sum) from the Math Operations library (note the signs), and the net force is divided by mass (Gain block) to produce acceleration (y-ddot in Fig. 6.12). The initial conditions for each integrator $( \dot { y } _ { 0 }$ and $y _ { 0 } )$ are set by double-clicking the respective Integrator block and entering the numerical values in the dialog box (both initial conditions are zero in this example).

Executing the Simulink diagram in Fig. 6.12 and plotting y(t) produces a plot that is identical to Fig. 6.9. Note that we could “pick off” and send several signals from the Simulink diagram in Fig. 6.12 to the MATLAB workspace for plotting: net force, acceleration ÿ(t), velocity ẏ (t), friction force, and spring force. Hence, the integrator-block approach may be the most versatile of the three simulation methods demonstrated by these examples.

We may summarize the characteristics of the three Simulink approaches based on the results of the previous examples:
