# SUMMARY

In this chapter we introduced and discussed the standard forms for representing the mathematical models of physical systems. The standard forms include (1) state-variable equations, (2) the state-space representation (SSR), (3) input-output (I/O) equations, (4) transfer functions, and (5) block diagrams. Of course, the governing system dynamics (defined by the collection of ODEs) is not altered if we choose to represent the system in one or more different standard forms. As we see in the following chapters, each standard form has its own advantages and disadvantages when it comes to obtaining the system’s response through numerical simulation or analytical techniques.

State-variable equations are a collection of n first-order differential equations, which may be linear or nonlinear. An SSR is a convenient vector-matrix format of the state-variable equations, which can be applied only to linear ODEs. As we see in Chapter 6, the SSR is very well-suited for computer simulations of linear dynamic systems. An I/O equation is a single nth-order ODE that includes one output variable and one or more input variables. A transfer function, by definition, is the ratio of the Laplace transform of the output variable to the Laplace transform of the input variable with zero initial conditions. In this volume, we emphasize using transfer functions to represent the dynamics of a single-input, single-output (SISO) system. In this chapter, we demonstrated how to derive the transfer function by applying the differential (or D) operator to the I/O equation.

We also presented the basic steps for the linearization process. This process allows us to develop a linear model that represents the system dynamics in the vicinity of a nominal operating point. Hence, we can apply the linearization process to nonlinear state-variable equations to develop a vector-matrix SSR.

Finally, we presented the block diagram, which is a graphical representation of a dynamic system. The dynamic variables are shown as signal paths, and operations such as addition, multiplication, and integration are represented as “blocks” with input and output variables. Block diagrams are the foundation of the extremely powerful simulation software Simulink. Numerical simulation using Simulink is the focus of the next chapter.
