# 7.1 INTRODUCTION

So far, we have discussed modeling dynamic systems, the standard forms for representing system models, and obtaining the system’s response using numerical simulation methods. In this chapter we discuss how to obtain the system response using analytical techniques, that is, obtaining the solution of the governing ordinary differential equations (ODEs) “by hand.”

The reader may wonder why it is important to obtain analytical solutions to differential equations when numerical packages such as the MATLAB and Simulink software are readily available. Dynamic systems and control engineers should know how to evaluate the response of first- and second-order systems by using “back-of-the-envelope” calculations as many real engineering systems can be adequately modeled by loworder, linear differential equations. Students of dynamic systems should be able to develop an understanding of how basic system parameters affect the system’s response. For example, we see that varying the stiffness or damping parameters in a mechanical system affects the vibration frequency of the response and the time it takes the system to reach a steady-state response. Therefore, the goal of this chapter is not a full, rigorous treatment of linear differential equations and their solution; these topics are reserved for the prerequisite course in differential equations. Instead, the objective of this chapter is to develop an understanding of firstand second-order system responses for standard input functions such as the step and impulse. After completing this chapter, the reader should be able to predict the responses of first- and second-order systems by employing a few simple hand calculations.
