# Example 2.5

Consider again the solenoid actuator shown in Fig. 2.8 and discussed in Examples 2.1 and 2.4. In most solenoid designs, the return spring will have a “preload” due to its compression when the valve is seated. Derive the mathematical model of the mechanical system with a preloaded return spring.

In Examples 2.1 and 2.4, the return spring was undeflected when the armature–valve mass was seated at the zero position. Therefore, when the electromagnetic force $F _ { \mathrm { e m } }$ is zero, the mathematical models (2.21) and (2.26) are satisfied when the armature–valve mass is at rest in the seated position, or $x = { \dot { x } } = { \ddot { x } } = 0$ . However, a preloaded, compressed return spring will provide a force (to the left) when the valve is seated $( x = 0 )$ ) and at rest $( { \dot { x } } = { \ddot { x } } = 0 )$ . Therefore, a wall-contact force acts on the left side of the armature mass to balance the preloaded spring when the system is in static equilibrium. We must incorporate the preload spring force and wall-contact force in our new mechanical model.

Figure 2.17 shows the mechanical system with the spring preload force $F _ { \mathrm { P L } }$ and wall-contact force $F _ { C } .$ . The mass displacement x is measured from the seated position. The seated position occurs when the left side of the armature mass is in contact with the wall. It is important to note that the wall-contact force can only “push” to the right and cannot “pull” the armature mass to the left. Consequently, the wall-contact discontinuity must be modeled correctly.

Figure 2.18 shows the FBD of the mechanical system with the spring preload and wall-contact force. The spring force kx, friction forces, and electromagnetic force $F _ { \mathrm { e m } }$ are the same as in Example 2.4. The spring force kx in Fig. 2.18 is due to the additional compression of the return spring when the mass is displaced to the right, or $x > 0$ . Thus, the total spring force is $F _ { \mathrm { P L } } + k x .$ . Note that the return spring can never be in tension, as displacement x has a lower limit of zero because of wall contact and a compressive preload exists when $x = 0 .$ . The wall-contact force will instantly become zero when the armature–valve mass is displaced from the seat, or $x > 0$ . Summing all external forces on mass m with the sign convention as positive to the right yields
