# Controller Design in the Frequency Domain

We can use the frequency domain (i.e., Bode diagrams) to design control schemes and References 2–5 each devote an entire chapter to control system design in the frequency domain. Because this textbook provides an introduction to feedback control systems, we will not pursue the details of control design in the frequency domain. However, we use our previous discussion of gain and phase margins to explain one concept behind control design using Bode diagrams. We previously noted that increasing the phase margin $\phi _ { \mathrm { p m } }$ will add damping to the closed-loop system. Figure 10.53 shows that phase margin is computed using the 0-dB crossover frequency. If the phase margin is insufficient (say, $\phi _ { \mathrm { p m } } = 1 5 ^ { \circ }$ or damping ratio $\zeta \cong 0 . 1 5 )$ ), then it may be possible to increase the phase margin by adding a positive phase angle near the unity-gain crossover frequency $\omega _ { \mathrm { p m } }$ shown in Fig. 10.53. Adding a lead controller (or lead filter) to the forward path will add phase angle. For example, consider again the lead controller discussed in the previous section

$$\text { Lead controller: } \quad \frac {K (s + 4)}{s + 1 5}$$

This controller has a zero at $s = - 4$ and pole at $s = - 1 5$ . Figure 10.47 presents the Bode diagram of the lead controller, which exhibits a significant phase lead contribution $( + 3 0 ^ { \circ } )$ for the frequency range $4 < \omega < 1 5$ rad/s. This frequency range for additional phase lead roughly corresponds to the zero/pole locations for the lead controller. Hence, if we want to add damping (or, phase margin) to a system, we can introduce a lead controller with a zero placed near the unity-gain crossover frequency $\omega _ { \mathrm { p m } }$ of the uncompensated system. The following example illustrates controller design using the Bode diagram.
