# 4.1 INTRODUCTION

Pressurized fluids (liquids and gases) are used by mechanical engineers in designing devices that deliver forces and torques to mechanical loads. Hydraulic systems use a liquid as the working fluid while pneumatic systems use air or other gases. Hydraulic actuators are used by construction and farm machinery to lift loads, move soil, and drive rotational augers. Hydraulic actuators are also used on aerospace vehicles to position aerodynamic surfaces (rudders, elevators, ailerons, and flaps), deploy landing gear, and swivel rocket engines. In addition, hydraulic and pneumatic actuators are used to maneuver robot manipulators and activate automotive braking systems. Like the electromechanical systems investigated in Chapter 3, these fluid systems convert energy from a power source to mechanical energy (position and velocity). In the case of fluid systems, the power source is a pressurized fluid, whether it is liquid (hydraulic system) or gas (pneumatic system). Thermal systems involve the transfer of heat energy, and temperature is typically the dynamic variable of interest.

This chapter introduces the fundamental techniques for developing the modeling equations for fluid and thermal systems. Our mathematical models of fluid systems are developed by utilizing the conservation of mass while thermal system models are developed by applying the conservation of energy. When a fluid system is used in an actuator to move or interact with a mechanical load, we also make use of free-body diagrams of the mechanical components and Newton’s laws in order to develop the complete mathematical model. As with mechanical systems in Chapter 2 and electrical systems in Chapter 3, we utilize a lumped-parameter approach, and, therefore, the mathematical models derived in this chapter consist of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). Our goal is to develop models of systems and devices that utilize fluid and/or thermal components that are of practical use to mechanical and aerospace engineers. In particular, we focus our discussion on fluid-system actuators. This chapter is the final chapter devoted to modeling physical systems; the subsequent chapters develop the techniques for obtaining and analyzing the system’s dynamic response.
