where $K _ { \mathrm { s a } } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s  0 } s ^ { 2 } G ( s )$ is called the static acceleration error constant. In order for $K _ { \mathrm { s a } }$ to be nonzero, we s→0 must have a system that is type 2 or higher in order to cancel the multiplicative $s ^ { 2 }$ term. Consequently, $K _ { \mathrm { s a } } = 0$ for type 0 and type 1 systems, and the steady-state tracking error diverges to infinity. If $N = 2$ (type 2), then $K _ { \mathrm { s a } }$ is finite and the tracking error exhibits a steady-state offset. For systems with three or more free integrators in the forward path $\left( N \geq 3 \right)$ ), the closed-loop response will perfectly track the parabolic input at steady state.

Table 10.3 summarizes the relationships between system type, steady-state tracking error $e ( \infty )$ , and the various error constants that we derived in the previous discussion. The table exhibits a sort of symmetry where finite tracking errors exist when the order of the input function (expressed as a polynomial in time t) matches the system type. For example, a unit ramp $r ( t ) = t$ is a first-order time polynomial and a type 1 system exhibits a finite steady-state tracking error. If the order of the input time polynomial is greater than the system type N, then the closed-loop output diverges from the reference and the steady-state error is infinity.

Table 10.3 and the previous analyses demonstrate that adding integrators to forward transfer function reduces or eliminates the steady-state tracking error. A review of Example 10.5 shows that the plant (speed response of a DC motor) is type 0 and therefore a finite speed error exists when the reference input is a step function and proportional (P) control is employed. When an integral control signal is added (PI control), the forward transfer function becomes type 1 and the steady-state tracking error is zero. In contrast, Example 10.6 shows that the plant transfer function (mechanical system) is type 1 and consequently the closed-loop position response will perfectly track a step reference position input at steady state with either a P- or PD controller (see Figs. 10.19 and 10.20). In this case where the plant is type 1 and the reference input is a step function, there is no need to add an integral control signal to improve steady-state accuracy.
