Serving as a capstone for the textbook, Chapter 11 presents case studies in dynamic systems and control. Mixed-discipline, integrated engineering systems, inspired by the research literature, serve as the case studies. The five case studies illustrate the major topics of the textbook: (1) developing mathematical models, (2) predicting the system’s behavior using analytical and numerical methods, and (3) selecting the important system parameters in order to improve performance. Simulink is used extensively to obtain the dynamic response of these systems that often involve nonlinearities and other complexities.

Numerous examples are provided at key locations throughout Chapters 2 to 10 in order to illustrate the topic discussed by the particular section. Chapters 2–10 contain end-of-chapter problems that are grouped into three categories: (1) conceptual problems, (2) MATLAB problems, and (3) engineering applications. In many cases, physical engineering systems (such as a suspension system, solenoid actuator, or filter circuit) are revisited throughout the textbook in the chapter examples and problems. As with the capstone Chapter 11, many of the example and end-of-chapter problems illustrate concepts in dynamic systems and control by presenting “real-world,” physical engineering systems.

Appendix A presents the basic and derived units used in this textbook. Appendix B provides a brief introduction to MATLAB, M-files, and the commands that pertain to solving problems involving dynamic systems and control. Appendix C is a primer on Simulink and expands on the brief Simulink tutorial covered in Chapter 6.

As previously mentioned, this textbook is an outgrowth of 20 years of teaching a system dynamics course. In the long time that I have taught this course, I have often employed a trial-and-error approach to determining an optimum set of strategies for maximizing student understanding of key topics. Some of these strategies are unique to my teaching, and I outline them here so that the reader can see how this textbook marks a departure from others in the field.
