# 8.4 ANALYSIS OF DYNAMIC SYSTEMS USING LAPLACE TRANSFORMS

As stated in the Introduction and restated in the previous section, the purpose of employing the Laplace transform method is to obtain the response of a dynamic system. More directly, Laplace transform techniques allow a systematic method for solving the LTI differential equations that comprise the mathematical model of a dynamic system. It is important to reiterate that Laplace transform methods can be applied only to dynamic systems that are modeled by LTI ODEs. The Laplace transform method offers an alternate technique (when compared to the methods of Chapter 7) for analytically obtaining the solution of linear ODEs.

We can group the approaches for obtaining the dynamic response using Laplace methods into two categories: (1) applying the Laplace transform to the system’s time-domain I/O equation or (2) using the system’s transfer function. The first approach was illustrated by Example 8.6 in the previous section where any existing initial conditions and/or system inputs were handled during the Laplace transformation of the ODE. Consequently, this approach yields the complete solution. The transfer-function approach yields only the system’s response to the input as (by definition) the transfer function assumes zero initial conditions (therefore, the transfer-function approach can be viewed as a subset of the first approach). One advantage of the transfer-function approach is that subsystems (such as electrical and mechanical components) can be modeled by individual transfer functions, which can then be connected to form an integrated system (e.g., see Example 5.17 from Chapter 5 or Example 7.4 from Chapter 7). The following two subsections demonstrate the two approaches.
