Chapter 6 presents numerical simulation methods for obtaining the response of dynamic systems. Here, the MATLAB simulation software is used exclusively as it has become the standard computational platform for academia and industry. Simulating the response of linear systems using MATLAB commands is presented first. The graphical software Simulink is presented next, and it is the focus of this chapter and the primary simulation tool used throughout the remainder of the textbook. Simulink is used to simulate linear and nonlinear systems using the standard forms presented in Chapter 5.

The next three chapters involve the analytical solution of linear systems. Chapter 7 covers analytical methods for obtaining the system’s response in the time domain with an emphasis on first- and second-order system response. Here, the two key concepts are (1) the correlation between the roots of the characteristic equation and the form of the free (or transient) response; and (2) the equivalence of the characteristic roots, poles of the transfer function, and eigenvalues of the system matrix. Chapter 8 presents a brief overview of Laplace transform theory and its use in obtaining the response of linear dynamic systems. Chapter 9 involves frequency response, or the system response to periodic input functions. In this chapter, the emphasis is on the Bode diagram as a graphical depiction of the information required for complete frequency-response analysis.

Chapter 10 introduces feedback control systems where the PID controller (and its variants) is emphasized. Two graphical techniques, the root-locus method and the Bode diagram, are used to analyze the closedloop response, design controllers, and assess stability. The chapter closes with a brief discussion of how controllers are implemented as discrete-time algorithms in a digital computer.
