where $G M _ { \mathrm { d B } }$ is the gain margin in decibels as determined from the Bode diagram (see Fig. 10.53). For our illustrative example, we estimate the gain margin (in decibels) from Fig. 10.53 to be $G M _ { \mathrm { d B } } = 2 3 . 5 \ : \mathrm { d B }$ . Using Eq. (10.56), we find that the gain margin is 14.96 (we know that the exact gain margin is 15). In summary, $\omega _ { \mathrm { g m } }$ is the frequency where the gain margin is measured and it is easily identified from the $- 1 8 0 ^ { \circ }$ phase crossing on the phase plot of the Bode diagram (see Fig. 10.53).

The second important relative stability margin is the phase margin and it is defined as the maximum amount of phase lag that can be added to a system before driving it unstable. Similar to gain margin, we can easily read the phase margin from the Bode diagram using the following steps. First, we locate the “unity-gain crossover frequency” $\omega _ { \mathrm { p m } } ,$ where the magnitude is 0 dB (the critical point of the magnitude plot). Next, we project down to the phase plot along frequency $\omega _ { \mathrm { p m } }$ and read the associated phase angle. This phase must be greater than $- 1 8 0 ^ { \circ }$ for a stable closed-loop system. The phase margin $\phi _ { \mathrm { p m } }$ (in degrees) is shown in Fig. 10.53 and it is the difference between the phase at the unity-gain frequency and the critical phase angle of $- 1 8 0 ^ { \circ }$ . Using Fig. 10.53 we can estimate the 0-dB gain crossover frequency to be $\omega _ { \mathrm { p m } } = 0 . 3 3$ rad/s and the associated phase angle to be approximately $\phi = - 1 0 5 ^ { \circ }$ . Hence, the phase margin is $\phi _ { \mathrm { { p m } } } ^ { ^ { \star } } = 1 8 0 ^ { \circ } - 1 0 5 ^ { \circ } = 7 5 ^ { \circ }$ , as shown in Fig. 10.53. Finally, it should be noted that if the P-gain was increased by a factor of 15 from $K _ { P } = 2$ to $K _ { P } = 3 0$ , then the magnitude plot in Fig. 10.53 would be shifted up $2 0 \log _ { 1 0 } ( 1 5 ) = 2 3 . 5$ dB and consequently the unity-gain crossover frequency $\omega _ { \mathrm { p m } }$ would become equal to the phase-crossing frequency $\omega _ { \mathrm { g m } } .$ . The resulting Bode diagram would match Fig. 10.52 and the closed-loop system would be marginally stable.

Phase margin is an indication of damping in the system. It has been shown that phase margin exhibits an approximate correlation with the damping ratio of the dominant second-order poles:

$$\zeta \cong \frac {\phi_ {\mathrm{pm}}}{1 0 0} \tag {10.57}$$
