Now, let us compute the roots of the characteristic equation (10.37) (i.e., poles of the closed-loop transfer function) for the gains $K _ { P } = 0 . 0 0 1 , 1 , 2 . 2 5 , 4 , 1 0$ , and 100. Table 10.5 shows the characteristic roots for these six gain settings. Note that when the control gain is small $( K _ { P } = 0 . 0 0 1 )$ ), the closed-loop poles are very close to the open-loop poles located at s = 0 and $s = - 3$ . The closed-loop roots are negative real numbers for the gain range $0 < K _ { P } \leq 2 . 2 5$ . When the gain is exactly $K _ { P } = 2 . 2 5$ , the characteristic equation has two repeated roots at $s = - 1 . 5$ . For gains $K _ { P } > 2 . 2 5$ , the roots are complex with a constant real part equal to –1.5. Figure 10.32 shows a plot of the closed-loop root locations in the complex plane. The two open-loop poles at $s = 0$ and $s = - 3$ are indicated by an $\mathbf { \vec { \mathbf { \nu } } } ^ { 6 6 } \mathbf { \times } \vec { \mathbf { \nu } }$ and the thick lines and arrows indicate the location and “movement” of the closed-loop poles as the gain is increased from zero. The closed-loop poles begin at the open-loop poles with gain $K _ { P } = 0$ , as indicated on Fig. 10.32, and the two poles move toward each other as the gain is increased from 0 to 2.25. At gain $K _ { P } = 2 . 2 5$ , the two poles simultaneously occupy the real-axis location –1.5. As the gain is increased beyond 2.25, the two closed-loop poles move along a vertical line with a real part equal to –1.5. The magnitude of the imaginary part of the roots goes to infinity as the gain is increased to infinity. Recall that the distance from the origin to a complex root is equal to the undamped natural frequency $\omega _ { n }$ and the cosine of the angle between the negative real axis and the radial line to the complex root is equal to the damping ratio ?? (see Fig. 7.17). Therefore, $\omega _ { n }$ increases and $\zeta$ decreases as gain $K _ { P }$ is increased beyond 2.25. Finally, Fig. 10.32 shows that the root locations remain in the left-half of the complex plane (i.e., the roots always have negative real parts) for all positive gains and therefore the closed-loop system is always stable for $K _ { P } > 0$ .

Table 10.5 Characteristic Roots of Eq. (10.37)
