In this book, we do not rely solely on Laplace transform methods to solve linear differential equations. Although the Laplace-based solution method is systematic, it involves the often tedious process of computing the partial-fraction expansion so that tables of common transforms may be used to obtain the inverse Laplace transform. Instead, our focus is on the direct analysis of the time-domain differential equations for low-order SISO systems, and numerical simulation techniques for complex, MIMO systems. However, we use transfer functions to represent and analyze single-input, single-output dynamic systems without formally using Laplace transforms. It should be noted that the simulation software Simulink uses transfer functions to represent an I/O differential equation, but it does not use Laplace transform theory to obtain the system response (it uses direct numerical integration of the time-domain differential equations). We show two techniques for developing the transfer function without using Laplace transforms.

The following example demonstrates the transfer function in the s-domain without dealing with Laplace transforms. To begin, consider the following third-order I/O equation

$$a _ {3} \ddot {y} + a _ {2} \ddot {y} + a _ {1} \dot {y} + a _ {0} y = b _ {1} \dot {u} + b _ {0} u \tag {5.96}$$

Next, consider an exponential input, $u ( t ) = U ( s ) e ^ { s t }$ , where $s = \sigma + j \omega$ is a complex variable and $U ( s )$ is a complex function. The exponential function is

$$e ^ {s t} = e ^ {\sigma t} e ^ {j \omega t} = e ^ {\sigma t} (\cos \omega t + j \sin \omega t) \tag {5.97}$$

where the last substitution comes from applying Euler’s formula $e ^ { j \theta } = \cos \theta + j$ sin ??. Equation (5.97) shows that $e ^ { s t }$ is complex; it consists of real and imaginary parts. Because input u(t) is strictly real, $U ( s )$ will be the complex conjugate of $e ^ { s t }$ . Recall from differential equations that if the input is $u ( t ) = U ( s ) e ^ { s t }$ , the particular solution (i.e., the response due to the input) will also be an exponential function, $\boldsymbol { y } ( t ) = Y ( s ) e ^ { s t }$ t. Hence, we can substitute these exponential input and output functions and their time derivatives $( \dot { y } = s Y ( s ) e ^ { s t } , \ddot { y } = s ^ { 2 } Y ( s ) e ^ { s t }$ , $\dot { u } = s U ( s ) e ^ { s t }$ , etc.) into the I/O differential equation (5.96) to yield
