I/O equations. The Math Operations library includes useful blocks such as the gain and summing junction that can be used to build the desired block-diagram representation of the system dynamics. The user “drags and drops” the desired blocks onto a working template and connects the input and output ports in order to build a simulation. He or she may select a wide range of available input functions from the Sources library, such as the step function, signal generator, and sine wave. Hence, all blocks in the Sources library have output ports but do not have input ports. The signal paths that connect the various I/O blocks and input functions contain the time-history information of the signals, which can be routed to various data storage and plotting functions contained in the Sinks library. Therefore, all blocks in the Sinks library (such as the Scope and To Workspace blocks) have input ports but do not have output ports. The initial conditions of dynamic variables can be set by double-clicking (opening) the appropriate model block (such as the statespace or integrator block) and entering the desired values. Finally, the parameters that define the numerical integration process are contained in the Model Configuration Parameters option under the Simulation menu in the model workspace window. Here, the user can enter the simulation time, the type of numerical integration method (Euler integration, Runge–Kutta integration, etc.), and either the integration step size for fixed-step methods or the error tolerances that determine the variable integration step size.

To start the Simulink program, simply enter the following command in the MATLAB environment

>> simulink

that opens the Simulink library browser. Clicking on the “new model” icon in the upper left corner will create a new Simulink model, which begins as a blank template for building the simulation block diagram. The user may now access the Simulink libraries and add and connect the desired I/O blocks to create a simulation. Appendix C presents figures depicting the Simulink libraries, blocks, and associated windows used to set the simulation parameters, as well as additional details for constructing a simulation model.

Building a simulation using Simulink is best demonstrated by presenting examples. This section concludes with a simulation of the simple first-order block-diagram example from Chapter 5.
