Dynamic system: A system where the current output variables (or dynamic variables) depend on the initial conditions (or stored energy) of the system and/or the previous input variables. The dynamic variables of the system (e.g., displacement, velocity, voltage, pressure) vary with time. For the DC motor example, the angular velocity of the motor is the dynamic variable and the circuit voltage is the input.

Modeling: The process of applying the appropriate fundamental physical laws in order to derive mathematical equations that adequately describe the physics of the engineering system. Dynamic systems are represented by differential equations. For the DC motor example, the electrical circuit is modeled by using Kirchhoff’s voltage law and the mechanical motion is modeled by using Newton’s second law.

Mathematical model: A mathematical description of a dynamic system’s behavior, which is usually a set of linear or nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODEs). For the DC motor example, the mathematical model consists of a differential equation for the electrical current and a differential equation for mechanical motion.

Simulation: The process of obtaining the system’s dynamic response by numerically solving the governing modeling equations. Simulation involves numerical integration of the model’s differential equations and is performed by digital computers and simulation software.

System analysis: The use of analytical calculations or numerical simulation tools to determine the system response in order to assess its performance. Repeated analysis aids the design process where the system’s configuration or parameters are altered to improve performance or meet desired constraints. For the DC motor example, we might apply a constant voltage input and determine the characteristics of the angular velocity response by using analytical calculations (“by hand”) or numerical simulations. If the angular velocity response is inadequate, we could alter the system’s parameters in order to improve performance.
