where $K _ { \mathrm { s v } } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s  0 } s G ( s )$ is called the static velocity error constant. As before, the system type N determines whether $K _ { \mathrm { s v } }$ is zero, finite, or infinite. For a type 0 system (no free integrators), we have $K _ { \mathrm { s v } } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s  0 } s G ( s ) = 0$ s→0 because there is no 1/s term in G(s) to cancel with the multiplicative s term. Because $K _ { \mathrm { s v } } = 0$ , the steady-state tracking error is $e ( \infty ) = 1 / K _ { \mathrm { s v } } = \infty$ . Hence, the closed-loop response of a type 0 system diverges from the ramp input as time goes on, which results in a continually growing error signal. For a type 1 system $( N = 1 )$ , we have one free integrator in G(s) that cancels with the multiplicative s term and hence $K _ { \mathrm { s v } } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s  0 } s G ( s )$ ) is a finite number. Therefore, the closed-loop response of a type 1 system will exhibit a constant offset from the reference ramp input at steady state. If we have a system that is type 2 (or higher), then $K _ { \mathrm { s v } } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s  0 } s G ( s ) = \infty$ and Eq. (10.33) shows that the steady-state error is zero. Hence, a system with two free integrators in the forward path can perfectly track a ramp input at steady state.

Finally, let us investigate the unit-parabolic input, $r ( t ) = t ^ { 2 } / 2$ , where the reference input signal increases at a quadratic rate with time. Clearly, a parabolic input is more difficult to track than a linear ramp input. The Laplace transform of the unit-parabolic input is $\mathcal { L } \left\{ r ( t ) \right\} = R ( s ) = 1 / s ^ { 3 }$ and hence Eq. (10.30) becomes

Unit-parabolic input: $e ( \infty ) = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s \to 0 } { \frac { s ( 1 / s ^ { 3 } ) } { 1 + G ( s ) } } = \operatorname* { l i m } _ { s \to 0 } { \frac { 1 / s ^ { 2 } } { 1 + G ( s ) } }$

$$= \lim _ {s \rightarrow 0} \frac {1}{s ^ {2} + s ^ {2} G (s)} = \frac {1}{K _ {\mathrm{sa}}} \tag {10.34}$$
