# SUMMARY

This chapter has presented a brief review of the solution of linear ODEs. The complete solution of an ODE is composed of the homogeneous (free) and particular (forced) responses, where the free response is dictated by the characteristic roots, and the forced response depends on the nature of the input function. First- and second-order systems were studied in depth, and the reader should recall that the free or natural response of a first-order system is characterized by the time constant ??, while the free response of an underdamped second-order system depends on damping ratio $\zeta$ and undamped natural frequency $\omega _ { n }$ . A major emphasis of this chapter is obtaining the form of the free (or transient) response rather than the complete mathematical solution including its constants of integration. In most cases, an accurate sketch of a first- or second-order system response can be produced with knowledge of the time constants or $\zeta$ and $\omega _ { n }$ . The reader may want to review Table 7.4 for a summary of the step-response characteristics of an underdamped second-order system.

Perhaps the most important concept contained in this chapter is the calculation of the characteristic roots and their effect on the free or transient response. The characteristic roots are computed from the characteristic equation, which can be derived from the system’s I/O equation, transfer function, or state-space model. We have seen that the poles of the transfer function G(s) and the eigenvalues of the system matrix A are identical to the characteristic roots. The location of the roots in the complex plane determines the system’s response speed and damping characteristics.
