# 10.1 INTRODUCTION

The previous eight chapters have dealt with two major topics: (1) developing models for physical engineering systems and (2) analyzing the system response to a known input function. In every case we have investigated thus far, the system’s input has been independent of its output. In this chapter, we introduce the concept of a feedback control system where the system’s output is measured and fed back in order to influence the system input. Knowledge of the system’s response via feedback allows the control input to be shaped in order to improve the response characteristics. We show that certain control-logic schemes or “controllers” can be used to reduce the response time, improve the damping characteristics, and enhance the ability of the system output to match or track a desired reference signal.

The objective of this chapter is to introduce the reader to the analysis and design of feedback control systems. Because the focus of this textbook is modeling and analysis of dynamic systems, we only provide an introductory treatment of feedback control. We emphasize the proportional-integral-derivative (PID) control scheme (and its variants) as it is the most popular controller used in industrial settings. Controller design and stability analysis are presented using two graphical techniques: the root-locus method and the Bode diagram. Finally, we end this chapter with a brief discussion on the practical issues associated with implementing control schemes in the digital domain.
