# 3.1 INTRODUCTION

Electrical circuits and electromechanical devices are used extensively by mechanical engineers in instrumentation and in the conversion between electrical energy and mechanical energy. This chapter introduces the fundamental techniques for developing the modeling equations for electrical systems. These systems are composed of resistor, capacitor, and inductor elements. Our mathematical models of electrical systems are developed by applying Kirchhoff’s voltage and current laws for electrical circuits, as well as the element laws that govern the interaction between electrical charge, current, magnetic flux linkage, and voltage. Electromechanical systems involve the interaction between electrical and mechanical energy as demonstrated by motors, generators, and actuators. These systems require analysis of the electrical circuit in conjunction with free-body diagrams of the mechanical components.

As with mechanical systems in Chapter 2, we utilize a lumped-parameter approach, and, therefore, the mathematical model of electrical systems consist of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). While our goal in this chapter is to develop the methods for modeling electrical and electromechanical systems, the reader should bear in mind that we intend to emphasize engineering applications of these systems. Hence, we develop models for devices such as motors and actuators, and these examples are used throughout the remainder of the book. As with the previous chapter, we develop the mathematical models, but we do not obtain the solutions to the governing ODEs. Methods for obtaining the system response are presented in Chapters 6–9.
