# SUMMARY

This chapter has presented an introduction to feedback control systems. First, we developed the closed-loop transfer function that allows us to calculate the closed-loop roots (or poles). Consequently, we can use the system-analysis methods developed in Chapter 7 to determine important closed-loop system response characteristics such as response time, damping, and steady-state tracking. Next, we investigated the use of the three-term PID control scheme. In summary, the proportional (P) control signal reduces the response time, the integral (I) signal reduces the steady-state tracking error, and the derivative (D) signal adds damping to the system. Pure differentiators, however, have two drawbacks: they are difficult to implement in practice and they amplify noise in the feedback signal. For these reasons, the PD control path is typically replaced by a lead controller. The root-locus method is a graphical technique for visualizing the effect that varying one control parameter (usually a gain) has on the locations of the closed-loop poles (or roots). We demonstrated that adding a zero to the control loop (such as a PD or lead controller) “bends” the root locus to the left and away from the imaginary axis, which improves the response time and system damping. We also presented the gain and phase margins, which are quantitative measures of how far the current closed-loop system design is from the point of instability. These stability margins can be read directly from the Bode diagram of the open-loop transfer function. Because phase margin is related to system damping, we can use the Bode diagram to design controllers that improve closed-loop damping characteristics. Finally, we briefly discussed how controllers are implemented as discrete-time algorithms in a digital computer.
