# Resistance of Pneumatic Systems

In rare cases where the gas is incompressible (i.e., very low-speed flow), the pneumatic resistance can be modeled by either the linear laminar equation (4.2) or nonlinear turbulent equation (4.4). The corresponding laminar or turbulent resistance coefficients $R _ { L }$ and $R _ { T }$ can be approximated from experimental results, such as a plot of mass-flow rate w vs. pressure drop.

In most industrial applications (such as pneumatic actuators), the working gas flows through valves and orifices at a high speed, and therefore the gas is compressible. Compressible gas flow is a complex phenomenon, and, therefore, we do not develop the flow equations here. Instead, we present the results for gas flow through a sharp-edged orifice, which we can use to model compressible flow in a pneumatic system (see Reference 1 for a detailed discussion of compressible gas flow).

Figure 4.14 shows compressible gas flow through a sharp-edged orifice with area $A _ { 0 }$ at the throat (minimum area). Expressions for the mass-flow rate of the gas can be derived by assuming that the expansion of an ideal gas through the orifice is isentropic (i.e., frictionless and adiabatic). In addition, we need to consider two cases: (1) “unchoked” flow and (2) “choked” flow. The flow is said to be “choked” when it achieves sonic conditions (the speed of sound, or Mach = 1) at the throat. The ratio of the downstream-to-upstream pressures, $P _ { 2 } / P _ { 1 }$ , determines whether or not the flow is choked. Clearly, if the upstream and downstream pressures are nearly equal $( P _ { 2 } / P _ { 1 } \approx 1 )$ , then no gas flows through the orifice. Gas begins to flow through the orifice at an increasing speed as the pressure ratio $P _ { 2 } / P _ { 1 }$ decreases from unity. When the pressure ratio $P _ { 2 } / P _ { 1 }$ is greater than the critical ratio $C _ { r }$ the gas flow is subsonic and “unchoked” and the corresponding mass-flow rate is

$$\text { ``unchoked'' } \quad w = C _ {d} A _ {0} P _ {1} \sqrt {\frac {2 \gamma}{(\gamma - 1) R T _ {1}} \left[ \left(\frac {P _ {2}}{P _ {1}}\right) ^ {\frac {2}{\gamma}} - \left(\frac {P _ {2}}{P _ {1}}\right) ^ {\frac {\gamma + 1}{\gamma}} \right]} \quad \text { if } P _ {2} / P _ {1} > C _ {r} \tag {4.57}$$
