# 1.1 INTRODUCTION

In solving engineering problems, there is a need to understand and determine the dynamic response of a physical system that may consist of several components. These efforts involve modeling, analysis, and simulation of physical systems. Typically, building a prototype system and conducting experimental tests are either infeasible or are too expensive for a preliminary design. Therefore, mathematical modeling, analysis, and simulation of engineering systems aid the design process immensely.

Dynamic systems and control involves the analysis, design, and control of physical engineering systems that are often composed of interacting mechanical, electrical, and fluid subsystem components. One example is an electrically controlled hydraulic actuator that is used to change the position of an aerodynamic surface (e.g., rudder) on an airplane. This system consists of several interacting components: an electromagnet circuit is used to open a mechanical valve that allows high-pressure hydraulic fluid to flow into a cylinder chamber; the fluid pressure causes a mechanical piston to move; and mechanical linkages connecting the hydraulic piston to the aerodynamic surface (e.g., rudder) cause the rudder to change position. Finally, an onboard digital computer (an “autopilot”) uses feedback from sensors to adjust the operation of the hydraulic actuator so that the rudder position (and the subsequent response of the airplane) matches the desired value. This example demonstrates why it is advantageous for the engineer to understand the dynamic response of this interconnected system without relying on experimentation with a physical prototype.

Here are definitions of the important terms that we use throughout the book:

System: A combination of components acting together to perform a specified objective. The components or interacting elements have cause-and-effect (or input-output) relationships. One example of a system is a direct-current (DC) motor where a voltage input causes angular velocity (the output) of the mechanical load attached to the motor’s shaft.
