After starting the Simulink program and opening a new model template, we open the Continuous library and “drag and drop” the transfer function icon (Transfer Fcn) onto the new model window. The Gain block (from the Math Operations library) is added to the right of the transfer function. Next, we open the Sources library and include the step function (Step) for the voltage source $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ and the clock icon (Clock) for the simulation time. We open the Sinks library and include the To Workspace icon after the gain block. Signal-path connections are made from the step function to the input port of the transfer function, from the transfer function’s output port to the input port of the gain block, and from the gain block’s output port to the To Workspace block. Finally, we include three additional To Workspace icons from the Sinks library and make the signalpath connections from both Sources (Step and Clock) to two Sinks (To Workspace) in order to store $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ and time t. Because we also want to store current I(t), we send a signal to the third To Workspace block. We can define the variable for the stored signals by double-clicking the appropriate To Workspace block and changing the Variable name dialog box. For example, we can define the variable name e\_in for the source voltage sent to the To Workspace block. It is important to save the format of the stored variable as an array so that it may be plotted from the MATLAB command line. To change the format double-click each To Workspace block and select Array in the Save format dialog box.
