1. The transfer-function approach is likely the most concise and easiest method of the three, because it is relatively easy to derive the transfer function(s) for linear systems. In addition, Simulink displays the numerator and denominator of the transfer function, which provides a means to check the construction of the simulation diagram. However, by definition, the transfer function assumes zero initial conditions. Therefore, a transfer function cannot be used when the system has nonzero initial conditions. Furthermore, each transfer function provides a single output variable, so some “internal” dynamic variables may be impossible to obtain. Note that in our previous example, position y(t) is available by using the transfer-function approach, but velocity ẏ (t) is not.   
2. The state-space approach is concise (it represents an entire linear system with a single block), but it requires that the user derive the complete SSR matrices. However, it is flexible as it allows the user to set arbitrary initial conditions for all n states. In addition, the user can obtain the dynamic response of all n states by setting the output matrix C to the n × n identity matrix.   
3. The integrator-block approach is likely the most flexible method, as it allows the user to set arbitrary initial conditions for all dynamic variables; plus, the user can store and plot any signal-path variable, which may aid in trouble-shooting complex simulations. However, for complex systems, the user may need to carefully plan the simulation diagram because it will involve multiple signal paths, summing junctions, and blocks, which may make it difficult to read.
