where e(t) is the error between the reference input r(t) and feedback measurement of the system output y(t) (see Fig. 10.13). Note that if the reference input r(t) is a step function, then the derivative ė (t) will theoretically be infinity at time t = 0 when input r(t) instantaneously steps up from zero to a constant value. This (theoretically) infinite derivative signal will be gained by $K _ { D }$ to produce an infinite control signal u(t). Consequently, a PID or PD controller with a step command will produce and send an infinite (impulsive) control input to the plant. Therefore, PD and PID controllers are rarely implemented on real-world control systems as shown by the block diagram in Fig. 10.13. One possible solution is to measure and feed back the derivative of the output (ẏ ) so that the derivative component of the control signal in Eq. (10.50) is $- K _ { D } { \dot { y } }$ instead of $K _ { D } \dot { e } = K _ { D } ( \dot { r } - \dot { y } )$ . This technique is called rate feedback and eliminates the discontinuous step-input derivative ${ \dot { \boldsymbol { r } } } ( t )$ at time $t = 0$ (of course, $\dot { \boldsymbol { r } } ( t ) = 0$ for $t > 0$ because the input is a step function).

Another method for circumventing the troublesome infinite error derivative and subsequent impulsive control spike is to insert a low-pass filter into the control loop. Figure 10.45 shows a feedback control system with a unity-gain low-pass filter inserted before the PID controller $G _ { C } ( s )$ . In Fig. 10.45, the low-pass filter is

$$G _ {\mathrm{LP}} (s) = \frac {1 5}{s + 1 5} \tag {10.51}$$

which has a unity DC gain and a corner (or break) frequency of 15 rad/s. Adding the unity-gain low-pass filter will remove any high-frequency components in the error signal e(t) (in this case, frequencies higher than 15 rad/s or 2.4 Hz), which includes removing the infinite derivative caused by the discontinuous step change at $t = 0$ . It is important that the low-pass filter has a DC gain of one so that the steady-state amplitude of the filtered error $e _ { F } ( t )$ is equal to the steady-state error e(t) (in other words, no additional gain is introduced into the forward loop). Of course, the corner frequency of the low-pass filter can be set to any desired value.
