Chapter 1 introduces dynamic systems and control, including definitions of the relevant terms and categories of dynamic systems. The following three chapters all deal with developing mathematical models of physical engineering systems. Chapter 2 introduces the fundamental techniques used to derive the modeling equations for mechanical systems. Mechanical systems, perhaps more intuitively understood by undergraduate students as they involve Newton’s laws of motion, are treated first. Chapter 3 introduces the fundamental methods of developing the mathematical models for electrical and electromechanical systems. Models in this chapter are derived by applying Kirchhoff’s and Faraday’s laws and the electrical element laws that govern the interactions among electrical charge, current, magnetic flux, and voltage. Chapter 4 presents the fundamental techniques involved in developing models for fluid and thermal systems. It is the last chapter dedicated to the derivation of mathematical models. Fluid (hydraulic and pneumatic) models are based on the conservation of mass, while thermal models are derived using the conservation of energy.

Chapter 5 presents standard forms for representing the mathematical models of dynamic systems: statevariable equations, state-space representation, input-output equations, transfer functions, and block diagrams. The linearization process is also described in this chapter. The key concept emphasized in Chapter 5 is that each standard form is simply a convenient representation of the system model (i.e., the differential equations) that lends itself to analysis of the system’s dynamic response. Therefore Chapter 5 serves as a transition between developing the mathematical model (Chapters 2–4) and obtaining the system’s response using either numerical simulation or analytical techniques (Chapters 6–10).
