Before the advent of fast root-solving algorithms such as MATLAB’s roots command, the Routh–Hurwitz stability criterion was used to determine stability. The Routh–Hurwitz stability criterion is a systematic procedure that involves constructing the so-called Routh array, where the first two rows consist of the coefficients of the characteristic equation. Subsequent rows of the Routh array are computed by determinant-like calculations using the previous two rows. If all elements of the first column of the Routh array have the same sign, then all characteristic roots have negative real parts; that is, the system is stable. The number of characteristic roots with positive real parts (unstable roots) is equal to the number of sign changes in the first-column elements. The Routh–Hurwitz stability criterion essentially provides a “yes or no” check on stability and does not provide information on the root locations. Clearly, a stability check can be determined by numerically computing the n closed-loop roots (e.g., MATLAB’s roots command). One advantage of the Routh–Hurwitz stability criterion method is that it can be used to analytically determine the range of a parameter (such as a control gain) for closed-loop stability. However, as we show in the following example, MATLAB’s roots command may also be used with several trial values of a gain to determine the range for stability. We do not present or utilize the Routh – Hurwitz criterion for stability analysis. Instead, we will rely on MATLAB’s roots command or graphical techniques such as the root-locus method and the Bode diagram to analyze stability. The interested reader can consult References 2–5 for details regarding the Routh–Hurwitz stability criterion.
