We are now ready to construct the linear Simulink diagram using Eq. (6.28). Because Eq. (6.28) is linear, we could use the transfer-function approach; however, this approach would apply only to problems with zero initial conditions, or $\delta P ( 0 ) = P _ { \mathrm { 0 } } - P ^ { \ast } = 0$ . Instead, we will use the integrator-block approach for the linear model so that we may apply arbitrary initial conditions. Figure 6.19 presents the Simulink diagram for the linear tank model. Note that the core of the simulation is Eq. (6.28), which involves $\delta Q _ { \mathrm { i n } }$ as the input variable and $\delta P$ as the dynamic variable. Therefore, the simulation computes the perturbation input flow rate $\delta Q _ { \mathrm { i n } } = Q _ { \mathrm { i n } } - Q _ { \mathrm { i n } } ^ { \ast }$ by using a summing junction that compares two constant input signals. Because the solution to the linear model Eq. (6.28) is in terms of perturbation pressure $\delta { P } _ { ; }$ , we must add the nominal pressure $P ^ { * }$ in order to obtain a linearized approximation to tank pressure $P$ as shown in Fig. 6.19.

As with the nonlinear model, the user must set the constant parameters in the MATLAB workspace before running the simulation. For the simulation in Fig. 6.19, the user must set the parameters Q\_in, Q\_in\_star, $\mathtt { P \_ s t a r }$ , and dP0 (the initial perturbation pressure for the integrator block). MATLAB M-file 6.2 (called run\_tank\_linear.m) sets the required parameters, executes the linear Simulink model tank\_linear.mdl (Fig. 6.19), and plots the linear approximation for pressure $P ( t )$ .
