# 10.7 STABILITY MARGINS

One of the general performance requirements of a good control system is a measure of its closed-loop stability. Clearly, a good control system design must provide a stable closed-loop operation. However, it is also useful to quantify relative stability, that is, how “close” the current design point is from an unstable control system configuration. By current design point, we mean the controller selection (P, PD, lead filter, etc.) and the associated gains. The previous section has shown that the root locus tells us whether increasing a control gain will eventually lead to instability. For example, the root locus of Fig. 10.36 shows that the closed-loop system discussed in Example 10.10 will eventually go unstable as the P-gain is increased. However, the root-locus plot does not explicitly provide the gain information and therefore we cannot easily quantify the gain increase that drives a closed-loop system unstable.

It turns out that our other graphical analysis tool, the Bode diagram, can be used to quantify the so-called stability margins between a current design point and an unstable design. The Nyquist stability criterion is the fundamental method for analyzing relative stability in the frequency domain. However, we present a somewhat more intuitive approach for investigating stability margins using the frequency-response information provided by the Bode diagram. The interested reader can consult References 2–5 for details regarding the Nyquist criterion.

Figure 10.51 shows a general closed-loop control system where the forward transfer function G(s) contains both the controller dynamics (such as PD, PID, lead filter, etc.) and the plant system dynamics. A single control gain K is factored out of G(s). This gain might be any one of the PID gains or the gain of a lead controller. Consider the case where the reference input r(t) is a sinusoidal function with an amplitude of two and frequency ??

$$\text { Reference input: } \quad r (t) = 2 \sin \omega t$$
