The objective is to develop a complete SSR given the modeling equations (5.44a) and (5.44b). Clearly, this system is linear and fourth-order $( n = 4 )$ ). At first glance, displacements $z _ { 1 }$ and $z _ { 2 }$ and their derivatives are the obvious choices for state variables. However, if we choose $x _ { 1 } = z _ { 1 }$ and $x _ { 2 } = \dot { z } _ { 1 }$ , we see from Eq. (5.44a) that the second state equation $( { \dot { x } } _ { 2 } = { \ddot { z } } _ { 1 } )$ ) will involve the term $\dot { z } _ { 0 } ( t )$ , which is the derivative of the input $u = z _ { 0 } ( t )$ . Our standard state equation (5.21) does not contain a matrix-vector term involving u̇ , so we cannot utilize this choice of state variables along with a single input defined as $u = z _ { 0 } ( t )$ . In general, when the mathematical model involves derivatives of the input variables, such as Eq. (5.44a), the choice of state variables becomes more complicated and less intuitive. We show two solutions to this state-space problem when the time derivative of the input u appears in the system dynamics. The first solution method is more intuitive and easier to apply. It is pursued here in this example; the second method is less intuitive and is reserved as Problem 5.32 at the end of this chapter.

The intuitive or easier solution is to simply define an additional input variable that is the derivative of $z _ { 0 }$ . Hence, we define two input variables: $u _ { 1 } = z _ { 0 } ( t )$ and $u _ { 2 } = \dot { z } _ { 0 } ( t )$ ). Now, we are able to define the following four state variables:

$$x _ {1} = z _ {1} \tag {5.45}x _ {2} = \dot {z} _ {1} \tag {5.46}x _ {3} = z _ {2} \tag {5.47}x _ {4} = \dot {z} _ {2} \tag {5.48}$$

Taking the first time derivative of each state variable and substituting the system dynamics (5.44a) and (5.44b) for $\ddot { z } _ { 1 }$ and $\ddot { z } _ { 2 }$ yields

$$\dot {x} _ {1} = \dot {z} _ {1} \tag {5.49}\dot {x} _ {2} = \ddot {z} _ {1} = \frac {1}{m _ {1}} [ - b _ {1} \dot {z} _ {1} - b _ {2} (\dot {z} _ {1} - \dot {z} _ {2}) - k _ {1} z _ {1} - k _ {2} (z _ {1} - z _ {2}) + b _ {1} \dot {z} _ {0} (t) + k _ {1} z _ {0} (t) ] \tag {5.50}\dot {x} _ {3} = \dot {z} _ {2} \tag {5.51}\dot {x} _ {4} = \ddot {z} _ {2} = \frac {1}{m _ {2}} \left[ - b _ {2} \left(\dot {z} _ {2} - \dot {z} _ {1}\right) - k _ {2} \left(z _ {2} - z _ {1}\right) \right] \tag {5.52}$$

Next, we substitute for the physical variables using the definitions of the states $( x _ { 1 } = z _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } = \dot { z } _ { 1 } , x _ { 3 } = z _ { 2 }$ , and $x _ { 4 } = \dot { z } _ { 2 } )$ and the two inputs $( u _ { 1 } = z _ { 0 } ( t ) , u _ { 2 } = \dot { z } _ { 0 } ( t ) )$ ) to yield
