# Simulation Tools

Several commercial simulation tools have been developed to help engineers design and analyze dynamic systems. We briefly discuss a few of these software tools as examples of mathematical modeling and system analysis.

Simulink is a numerical simulation tool that is part of the MATLAB software package developed by MathWorks [2]. It uses a graphical user interface (GUI) to develop a block diagram representation of dynamic systems. Simulink is used by engineers in industry and academia. Constructing system models with Simulink is relatively easy and, therefore, it is often used to build simple models during the preliminary design stage. However, Simulink can be used to simulate complex, highly nonlinear systems. In this book, we use it extensively to simulate and analyze dynamic systems.

Caterpillar Inc. has developed the simulation tool Dynasty that allows engineers to construct complex models of large off-road vehicles [3]. The engineer can build software models of integrated machines by “dragging-and-dropping” subsystem models from a library. These subsystems include engines, linkages, drive trains, hydraulics, and controls. The underlying physics of each subsystem are contained within the mathematical model of the individual component. The Dynasty software simulates the dynamics of the integrated vehicle model and allows engineers to perform tests, analyze the dynamic response, and vary the subsystem components in order to improve overall system performance. Caterpillar engineers used Dynasty to analyze and design the 797B mining truck (its largest vehicle) and bring it to production in less than half the time it would take by building physical prototypes of the truck.

EASY5, originally developed by Boeing, is a graphics-based simulation tool for constructing virtual prototypes of engineering systems [4]. As in Dynasty, the user can select prebuilt components from libraries that include models of mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and thermal subsystems. EASY5 can interface with Simulink and other computer-aided engineering software tools. Engineers have used EASY5 to analyze and design aerospace vehicles, for example.

In summary, it should be noted that all numerical simulation tools are constructed using the basic principles of mathematical modeling that are presented in this book. That is, the appropriate physical law (e.g., Newton’s second law, Kirchhoff’s voltage law) is applied to the particular system (mechanical, electrical, fluid, etc.) in order to develop the differential equations that describe the system dynamics. The differential equations are then solved using numerical integration methods. The solution to the differential equations is the system’s dynamic response.
