# 1.3 MODELING DYNAMIC SYSTEMS

A major focus of this book is mathematical modeling of dynamic systems. Developing an appropriate model is always the first step in system analysis because it is impossible to determine the system’s response without a mathematical representation of the system dynamics. Mathematical models are obtained by applying the appropriate laws of physics to each element of a system. Some system parameters (such as friction characteristics) may be unknown, and these parameters are often determined through experimentation and observation, which lead to empirical relations. Engineering judgment must be used to trade model complexity with the accuracy of the analysis. Nonlinearities (such as gear backlash) are often ignored in preliminary design studies in order to derive linear models. Sometimes, low-order approximate linear models can be developed to accurately represent the system dynamics. These low-order linear models can be solved analytically (“by hand”), which gives the engineer an intuitive feel for the nature of the dynamic system. Furthermore, simulations are easier to construct with low-order linear models and therefore the time required to perform system analysis is reduced. Nonlinear models, on the other hand, require numerical solutions using simulation software. Extremely complex nonlinear models typically require small integration time steps to accurately solve the ODEs thus increasing computer-run time. Consequently, there is usually a trade-off between model complexity and analysis time.
