# Case 1: two real, distinct roots

If the roots are real and distinct (not repeated), we have Case 1 and the homogeneous solution has the form

$$y _ {H} (t) = c _ {1} e ^ {r _ {1} t} + c _ {2} e ^ {r _ {2} t} \tag {7.52}$$

Therefore, the free response consists of two exponential functions, where the two coefficients $c _ { 1 }$ and $c _ { 2 }$ are determined from the two initial conditions $y ( 0 ) = y _ { 0 } \mathrm { a n d } \dot { y } ( 0 ) = \dot { y } _ { 0 }$ . The free response decays to zero as t → ∞ only if both roots are negative. If either root is positive, the free response diverges to infinity as $t \to \infty$ . If one root is zero (say, $r _ { 1 } = 0 )$ and the other root is negative, then the free response will involve a constant value $c _ { 1 }$ that remains at steady state. Figure 7.13 provides general examples of root locations and the corresponding free response for Case 1. The root locations are marked with an $\mathbf { \vec { \mathbf { \nu } } } ^ { 6 6 } \mathbf { \times } \vec { \mathbf { \nu } }$ in the complex plane, which has all real numbers on the x-axis, and all imaginary numbers on the y-axis. Because both roots for Case 1 are strictly real numbers, all root locations in Fig. 7.13 lie on the x-axis. The free response is said to be stable if it decays to zero (Fig. 7.13a). If one real root is positive, the free response is unstable (Fig. 7.13b), as it diverges to infinity. If one real root is zero, the free response is marginally stable (Fig. 7.13c), because the response remains bounded at a constant value but does not decay to zero as $t \to \infty$ .
