# 5.2 STATE-VARIABLE EQUATIONS

One standard method for representing a system is to use state variables, which are a set of the dynamic variables that completely define all characteristics of a system. The state variables are usually the physical variables of the system, such as displacement and velocity for mechanical systems, current for electrical systems, pressure for fluid systems, and temperature for thermal systems. State variables can therefore be used to determine the energy stored in a system. The state of a system is the smallest set of dynamic variables that can completely define all characteristics of the system. Therefore, the state variables are the dynamic variables that make up the state of the system. For example, we typically choose position z and velocity ż as the state variables of a single-mass mechanical system. Hence (z, ż ) is the state of the system. Potential (or kinetic) energy cannot be selected as an additional state variable because it can be derived from the position (or velocity) state variable. Any characteristic of the system, such as energy or momentum, can be derived from the knowledge of the state variables.

The standard convention is to use $x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } , \ldots , x _ { n }$ as the state variables and $u _ { 1 } , u _ { 2 } , \ldots , u _ { r }$ as the input (or control) variables. Integer n is the total number of state variables, or the order of the system, and integer r is the total number of input variables. The state-variable equations are a collection of n differential equations that are the first-order derivatives of each state variable:

$$\dot {x} _ {1} = f _ {1} (x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \ldots , x _ {n}, u _ {1}, u _ {2}, \ldots , u _ {r})\dot {x} _ {2} = f _ {2} (x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \ldots , x _ {n}, u _ {1}, u _ {2}, \ldots , u _ {r})\dot {x} _ {n} = f _ {n} (x _ {1}, x _ {2}, \dots , x _ {n}, u _ {1}, u _ {2}, \dots , u _ {r}) \tag {5.1}$$
