This book is organized according to its three major objectives. Chapters 2–4 deal with developing the mathematical models of physical engineering systems. In particular, Chapter 2 treats mechanical systems and the derivation of the modeling equations by applying Newton’s laws of motion. Chapter 3 deals with mathematical models for electrical and electromechanical systems. Here we apply the element laws that govern the interaction between electrical charge, current, magnetic flux, and voltage. Mathematical models for fluid and thermal systems are developed in Chapter 4 by utilizing the conservation of mass and the conservation of energy, respectively. In Chapters 2–4 we focus on developing mathematical models of “real-world” physical engineering systems such as vehicle suspension systems, energy-transmission devices, and systems with mixed disciplines such as electromechanical, hydromechanical, and pneumatic actuators. Chapter 5 deals with the standard formats for representing the various mathematical models derived in the previous three chapters. These standard formats facilitate the second major topic of the book – obtaining the system response – whether we use numerical or analytical techniques.

Chapter 6 begins the system-analysis section of the book. This chapter introduces Simulink as the numerical simulation tool of choice for obtaining the response of linear and nonlinear dynamic systems. Chapter 7 presents analytical techniques for solving the mathematical modeling equations “by hand.” Here we analyze the total system response (comprising the transient and steady-state responses) to input functions. In Chapter 8 we introduce the Laplace transformation method for obtaining the response of dynamic systems that are modeled by LTI differential equations. Chapter 9 deals with obtaining the response of a dynamic system that is driven by an oscillating or harmonic input function. This frequency-response analysis is aided by graphical techniques such as the Bode diagram.
