# 6.6 BUILDING INTEGRATED SYSTEMS

Most physical, real-world engineering systems are mixed-discipline systems; that is, they are composed of interconnected mechanical, electrical, and fluid subsystems. A good example is a hydraulic or pneumatic actuator: a solenoid coil (an electrical subsystem) is used to actuate a valve (a mechanical subsystem), which meters fluid flow into a cylinder (a hydraulic or pneumatic subsystem), which provides a force to move a piston and load mass (a second mechanical subsystem). Each physical subsystem may be modeled by linear or nonlinear ODEs, and the output of one subsystem (fluid pressure, for example) will be the input to another subsystem (such as a mechanical piston actuator). It is not difficult to imagine that building a Simulink diagram of a complex, interconnected system may become unwieldy and intractable with a web of crossing signal paths.

Fortunately, there is a “clean” method for constructing complex systems by using interconnected subsystem blocks. Figure 6.21 presents a functional block diagram of an integrated system consisting of three subsystems, each with their own input and output variables. Note that in this general example, subsystem 1 has one input u and two output variables, $y _ { 1 }$ (which is an input to subsystem 3) and $y _ { 2 }$ (which is an input to subsystem 2). Subsystem 2 has one output variable $y _ { 3 }$ , which is an input to subsystem 3. Finally, subsystem 3 has two output variables, $y _ { 4 }$ and $y _ { 5 }$ (which is an input to subsystem 2). Each subsystem will have its own modeling equations, which may be linear or nonlinear, and its own set of “internal” state variables that are contained within the subsystem block (the individual system output variables will be functions of the state variables).
