Figure 9.24 shows the Bode diagram for the second-order transfer function (9.51). As with the first-order Bode diagram, the magnitude plot exhibits a flat low-frequency asymptote (with a magnitude of 0 dB because the DC gain is $K = 1 )$ . However, the second-order system displays an increase in magnitude (amplitude ratio) when input frequency is near the undamped natural frequency $( \omega _ { n } = 1 0 $ rad/s in this case). The peak magnitude in Fig. 9.24 is about 8 dB and occurs at a frequency slightly less than $\omega _ { n } = 1 0$ rad/s. Therefore, when this second-order system is driven at an input frequency near 10 rad/s, the output/input amplitude ratio is about $1 0 ^ { 8 / 2 0 } = 2 . 5$ . Figure 9.24 also shows that the magnitude $| G ( j \omega ) | _ { \mathrm { d B } }$ decreases at a rate of −40 dB/decade when the input frequency is greater than $\omega _ { n } = 1 0$ rad/s (the low- and high-frequency asymptotes are shown as dashed lines on Fig. 9.24). The low- and high-frequency asymptotes intersect at the corner frequency $\omega _ { c } = \omega _ { n } = 1 0$ rad/s for this case. Figure 9.24 also shows that the phase angle shifts from $0 ^ { \circ }$ (low frequency) $\mathrm { t o } - 9 0 ^ { \circ }$ at the corner frequency and asymptotically approaches $- 1 8 0 ^ { \circ }$ at high frequencies.

Figure 9.25 shows the Bode diagram for second-order system (9.50) with $K = 1 , \omega _ { n } = 1 0 ~ \mathrm { r a d / s }$ , and various values for damping ratio $\zeta .$ . It is clear that the peak magnitude decreases as damping ratio is increased; for the two highest damping ratios $( \zeta = 0 . 7$ and 0.9) the peak magnitude disappears altogether and the entire magnitude plot is less than 0 dB. Figure 9.25 also shows that the phase plot exhibits a sharper shift from $0 ^ { \circ }$ $\mathrm { t o } - 1 8 0 ^ { \circ }$ when the damping ratio is small (note that all phase plots pass through $- 9 0 ^ { \circ }$ when input frequency is equal to the corner frequency $\omega _ { c } = \omega _ { n } )$ .

On the basis of the noted observations of Figs. 9.24 and 9.25, we can summarize the basic characteristics of the Bode diagram for a second-order transfer function in the standard form given by Eq. (9.50):

1. A flat low-frequency asymptote exists with a magnitude of 20 log (K) dB.   
2. A high-frequency asymptote exists with a slope of −40 dB/decade.   
3. The low- and high-frequency asymptotes intersect at the corner frequency $\omega _ { c } = \omega _ { n }$ rad/s.
