# SUMMARY

This chapter discussed the analysis of dynamic systems that are driven by a sinusoidal input function. In particular, we focused on the frequency response of an LTI dynamic system, which is defined as the steadystate response to a sinusoid input function. When a damped LTI system is driven by a sinusoidal input the transient response eventually decays to zero and all that remains at steady state is a sinusoidal output function with the same frequency as the input. Hence, given the input $u ( t ) = U _ { 0 }$ sin ??t the frequency response has the form $y _ { \mathrm { s s } } ( t ) = | G ( j \omega ) | U _ { 0 } \sin ( \omega t + \phi )$ where $| G ( j \omega ) |$ and ?? are the magnitude and phase angle of the sinusoidal transfer function evaluated at the input frequency ??. The primary concept to be gleaned from this chapter is that the frequency response of an LTI system is completely defined by the magnitude and phase angle of the sinusoidal transfer function $G ( j \omega )$ , that is, the system transfer function with s replaced by j??. Bode diagrams present magnitude (dB) and phase angle (degrees) vs. input frequency on a logarithmic scale and, therefore, facilitate the computation of the frequency response. Furthermore, peak output/input amplitude ratios (and the corresponding resonant frequencies) and the system bandwidth can be easily obtained from the Bode diagram. Finally, we presented a brief discussion of vibrations in mechanical systems. This discussion included the transmissibility metric, which is the ratio of the amplitude of the transmitted vibration to the amplitude of the input vibration. Because this output/input amplitude ratio is the magnitude $| G ( j \omega ) |$ we can determine transmissibility from the magnitude plot of the Bode diagram.
