1. Because system analysis and control system design begin with developing the appropriate mathematical models, the foundations for modeling all physical systems are presented in sequence by Chapters 2–4. The goal of these chapters is to present modeling explanations that are concise and clear, and this objective is achieved by focusing on essential, representative systems. Chapter 5 succinctly presents all standard forms for representing system models so that the fundamentals of system modeling are covered early in the textbook and not spread throughout the manuscript.   
2. Numerical simulation of linear and nonlinear systems using MATLAB and Simulink (Chapter 6) are covered before analytical methods (Chapters 7–9). My experience is that presenting modeling and simulation of real engineering applications early in the semester engages the students in the subject material. Industry has long used Simulink to model and analyze real engineering systems. My classroom experience has shown that undergraduate students are quite capable of – and enthusiastic about! – using Simulink to simulate complex, integrated systems that involve real effects such as nonlinear friction, turbulent flow, and modeling discontinuities. Instructors who wish to present analytical methods before numerical simulation may simply cover Chapter 6 after Chapters 7 and 8.   
3. The methods for obtaining analytical solutions do not rely on Laplace transform theory. In Chapter 7 (time-domain response) the characteristic equation and the associated characteristic roots (or transfer function poles or eigenvalues) are used to determine the transient response. The frequency response is derived in Chapter 9 by determining the forced response to the input $e ^ { s t }$ where $s = \sigma + j \omega$ is a complex variable. Transfer functions are used extensively in this textbook and are derived without using Laplace transforms. I believe that using Laplace transforms (and the associated inversion process) to obtain the response is unduly tedious; furthermore, my experience is that most students find their
