# SUMMARY

This chapter has illustrated the development of the mathematical models for electrical and electromechanical systems. First, we presented the physical laws that govern the interaction between charge, current, and voltage of electrical elements such as resistors, capacitors, and inductors. It is important for the reader to remember that only capacitors and inductors can store electrical energy and that each energy-storage element requires a single first-order ODE. Voltage across a capacitor and current through an inductor are the two dynamic variables of interest for capacitor and inductor elements, respectively. For example, an electrical system composed of two inductors and one capacitor is modeled by three first-order ODEs: two first-order ODEs for the time-rates of the two inductor currents $( I _ { L } )$ and one first-order ODE for the time-rate of capacitor voltage $( e _ { C } )$ . The voltages and currents in an electrical circuit that are not $e _ { C }$ or $I _ { L }$ (e.g., voltage drop across a resistor) can be expressed in terms of the important dynamic variables by applying Kirchhoff’s voltage and/or current laws to the electrical circuit. Furthermore, we showed how to model electrical systems that contained an operational amplifier. We ended the chapter with a discussion of electromechanical systems that involve the transfer between electrical and mechanical energy. Electromechanical systems employ the interaction between current and magnetism in order to convert electrical current into a mechanical force or mechanical motion into electrical voltage. MEMS actuators use the interaction between voltage and charge in order to convert electrical voltage into an electrostatic force.
