decreased. When damping is very small, the transmissibility peak occurs near $\beta = 1$ because the resonant frequency is nearly equal to the undamped natural frequency $\omega _ { n }$ . Note that unlike the standard second-order system in Eq. (9.50) and its corresponding Bode diagram shown in Fig. 9.25, transmissibility exhibits a resonant peak for all damping ratios. This difference is due to the first-order numerator of the vibration isolator transfer function (9.58).

3. When $\beta = \sqrt { 2 } = 1 . 4 1 4 2$ , transmissibility is unity for all damping ratios. Therefore, the excitation base amplitude is transmitted to the instrument without gain or loss if the input frequency is $\omega =$ $\omega _ { n } { \sqrt { 2 } } .$ .   
4. When input frequency ratio $\beta < { \sqrt { 2 } } .$ , increasing $\zeta$ decreases transmissibility and improves vibration isolation (however, transmissibility is always greater than unity). Conversely, when input frequency ratio $\beta > \sqrt { 2 }$ , increasing $\zeta$ increases transmissibility and degrades vibration isolation.   
5. Transmitted vibrations are attenuated (i.e., transmissibility is less than one) only when $\beta > { \sqrt { 2 } } .$

Figure 9.31 and the above summary can help engineers select the best vibration isolation system for their particular application. For minimum transmitted motion, choose vibration isolation mounts with an undamped natural frequency (i.e., stiffness) much smaller than the expected input vibration frequency ?? (therefore, $\beta = \omega / \omega _ { n }$ is large). If possible, select mounts with light damping for minimum transmissibility (see Fig. 9.31 for $\beta > \sqrt { 2 } )$ . Many times the disturbing input frequency may not be a single value but instead may be in a known range and, therefore, the vibration isolator design must consider a range of $\beta .$ . Finally, the system engineer may need to balance transmissibility requirements with other design constraints such as shock response and settling time of the transient response.
