The lead controller transfer function (10.66) is a good approximation to the original PD controller (10.65) as it maintains the same zero location at s = −3 and the same DC gain of 12. As with the previous PID controller example, we need to determine a discrete-time equation for the lead controller in order to implement the control algorithm as software. The details of converting the continuous-time transfer function to a discretetime transfer function are beyond the scope of this textbook (the interested reader can consult Reference 7 for details). However, the MATLAB command c2d will perform the conversion given the continuous-time system and sample period $T _ { s }$ . Using $T _ { s } = 0 . 0 1 \mathrm { ~ s ~ } ( \mathrm { o r } ,$ , sampling frequency of 100 Hz), the continuous-time lead controller (10.66) is converted to the following discrete-time algorithm:

$$u (k) = 0. 8 1 8 7 u (k - 1) + 8 0 e (k) - 7 7. 8 2 e (k - 1) \tag {10.67}$$

Consequently, the continuous-time lead controller (10.66) can be represented in a digital computer using one line of code: the discrete-time equation (10.67). It is important to remember that this digital lead controller only holds for a digital system with a sample period $T _ { s } = 0 . 0 1 ~ \mathrm { s }$ . If the sample period changes, then the discrete-time equation must be recomputed.

This section has presented a very brief introduction to some of the practical issues associated with implementing feedback control systems with a digital computer. One important point is that it is often possible to design the controller (PI, PID, lead filter, etc.) by assuming a purely continuous-time control system. That is, all system equations are ordinary differential equations and hence all transfer functions are in the Laplace (or $^ { 6 6 } { \boldsymbol { s } } ^ { \prime 3 } )$ domain. After a satisfactory controller is designed in the continuous-time domain, it must be converted into a discrete-time (digital) control algorithm and this step requires knowledge of the sampling time $T _ { s }$ . Implementing the digital control algorithm as computer code emphasizes the principal advantage of digital control systems: changing the controller gains or controller structure is relatively easy as these tasks only require software changes.
