# 6.1 INTRODUCTION

The first section of this book emphasized how to derive the mathematical models of an array of physical engineering systems. In Chapter 5, these mathematical models (i.e., the ordinary differential equations, or ODEs) were written in various “standard forms,” including state-variable equations, state-space representation (SSR), input-output (I/O) equations, and transfer functions. It should be noted that the system dynamics do not change when we choose to represent a given mathematical model in a particular “standard form” such as SSR or a transfer function. Chapter 5 concluded with a discussion on block diagrams, which are graphical representations of interconnected systems with clearly defined input and output signals where the “blocks” denote specific I/O relationships.

Developing a mathematical model is always the first step in the analysis and design of dynamic systems. Determining the system’s response to a specific input (i.e., solving the governing ODEs) is the second step, as the engineer is interested in characteristics such as response speed, maximum output, and the time to achieve a steady or constant output. Once the mathematical model has been developed, the engineer has two options for determining the system’s response: (1) analytical methods or (2) numerical simulations using a digital computer. Analytical techniques involve solving the governing ODEs “by hand,” which is feasible for linear, time-invariant (LTI) first- and second-order systems. Engineers should be able to ascertain the fundamental response characteristics of LTI first- and second-order systems by employing a few relatively simple analytical calculations. These analytical techniques are discussed in Chapter 7. However, when the system dynamics involve nonlinear terms, a numerical simulation is likely the only option for determining the system response. Furthermore, a numerical simulation is the best option for determining the response of a higher-order, real-world system that involves the interaction of multiple inputs and outputs.
