where $\tau = J / b$ is the time constant (in this case $\tau = 0 . 4 / 0 . 0 6 = 6 . 6 6 7 ~ \mathrm { s } )$ . The homogeneous (or transient) solution has the form $\omega _ { H } ( t ) = c e ^ { - t / \tau }$ , which is an exponential function that dies out in four time constants (or, $t _ { S } = 4 \tau = 2 6 . 6 7 ~ \mathrm { s } )$ . The particular (or forced) solution $\omega _ { P } ( t )$ is the steady-state response to the step input, which we can obtain directly from Eq. (8.24) or Eq. (8.21) with $\dot { \omega } = 0 .$ , which yields $\omega _ { P } ( t ) = T _ { \mathrm { i n } } / b = ( 1 5 \mathrm { N - m } ) / ( 0 . 0 6 $ N-m-s/rad) = 250 rad/s. Therefore, the complete response is $\omega ( t ) = \omega _ { H } ( t ) + \omega _ { P } ( t )$ or

$$\omega (t) = - 1 3 0 e ^ {- 0. 1 5 t} + 2 5 0 \mathrm{rad/s} \tag {8.25}$$

where the constant c for the homogeneous response $\omega _ { H } ( t )$ has been obtained by applying the single initial condition ??(0) = 120 rad/s. Equation (8.25) is identical to Eq. (8.23). If a sketch of the system response is desired, there is no need to obtain an explicit equation for the solution. Instead, the reader should note that the step response of a first-order system involves an exponential rise or decay from the initial condition to the steady-state value, and that the settling time is four time constants. Hence, all that is required to make an accurate sketch of the response is the time constant and steady-state value and both values can be quickly computed from the I/O equation. It is this author’s opinion that direct analysis of the time-domain ODE is the preferred method of obtaining or characterizing the system’s response. Laplace transform methods do provide a systematic approach for obtaining the complete system response but this author believes that the Laplace transform approach is less intuitive and unduly tedious.
