Note that for closed-loop stability it is necessary to have $a _ { 0 } > 0$ and $a _ { 1 } > 0$ . Note also that $a _ { 0 } \approx ( 1 - k ) \alpha \beta$ and $a _ { 1 } \approx 2 ( k - 1 ) \alpha \beta$ for sufficiently large α and $\beta { \mathrm { ~ i f ~ } } k \neq 1$ . It is easy to see that for sufficiently large α and $\beta$ (or $q$ and $\sigma )$ , the system is unstable for arbitrarily small perturbations in $k$ in either direction. Thus, by choice of $q$ and $\sigma ,$ , the gain margins may be made arbitrarily small.

It is interesting to note that the margins deteriorate as control weight $( 1 / q )$ gets small (large $q )$ and/or system driving noise gets large (large $\sigma )$ . In modern control folklore, these have often been considered ad hoc means of improving sensitivity.

It is also important to recognize that vanishing margins are not only associated with open-loop unstable systems. It is easy to construct minimum phase, open-loop stable counterexamples for which the margins are arbitrarily small.

The point of this example is that $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } ~ \left( \mathrm { L Q G } \right)$ solutions, unlike LQR solutions, provide no global system-independent guaranteed robustness properties. Like their more classical colleagues, modern LQG designers are obliged to test their margins for each specific design.

It may, however, be possible to improve the robustness of a given design by relaxing the optimality of the filter with respect to error properties. A successful approach in this direction is the so called LQG loop transfer recovery (LQG/LTR) design technique. The idea is to design a filtering gain, $L _ { 2 } .$ , in such way so that the LQG (or $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 } )$ control law will approximate the loop properties of the regular LQR control. This will not be explored further here; interested readers may consult related references.
