# $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ Control

In this chapter we consider $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control theory. Specifically, we formulate the optimal and suboptimal $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control problems in Section 14.1. However, we will focus on the suboptimal case in this book and discuss why we do so. In Section 14.2 a suboptimal controller is characterized together with an algebraic proof for a class of simplified problems while leaving the more general problems to a later section. The behavior of the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controller as a function of performance level γ is considered in Section 14.3. The optimal controllers are also briefly considered in this section. Some other interpretations of the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controllers are given in Section 14.4. Section 14.5 presents the formulas for an optimal $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ controller. Section 14.6 considers again the standard $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control problem but with some assumptions in the previous sections relaxed. Since the proof techniques in Section 14.2 can, in principle, be applied to this general case except with some more involved algebra, the detailed proof for the general case will not be given; only the formulas are presented. We shall indicate how the assumptions in the general case can be relaxed further to accommodate other more complicated problems in Section 14.7. Section 14.8 considers the integral control in the $\mathcal { H } _ { 2 }$ and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ theory and Section 14.9 considers how the general $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ solution can be used to solve the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ filtering problem.
