Let the transfer matrix from w to z be denoted by $T _ { z w }$ and assume that the admissible uncertainty $\Delta$ satisfies $\| \Delta \| _ { \infty } < 1 / \gamma _ { u }$ for some $\gamma _ { u } \ > \ 0$ . Then our analysis problem is to answer if the closed-loop system is stable for all admissible $\Delta$ and $\| T _ { z w } \| _ { \infty } \leq \gamma _ { p }$ for some prespecified $\gamma _ { p } > 0 .$ , where $\| T _ { z w } \| _ { \infty }$ is the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ norm defined as $\Vert T _ { z w } \Vert _ { \infty } = \mathrm { s u p } _ { \omega } \bar { \sigma } \left( T _ { z w } ( j \omega ) \right)$ . The synthesis problem is to design a controller K so that the aforementioned robust stability and performance conditions are satisfied.

In the simplest form, we have either $\Delta = 0 \ \mathrm { o r } \ w = 0$ . The former becomes the wellknown $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control problem and the later becomes the robust stability problem. The two problems are equivalent when ∆ is a single-block unstructured uncertainty through the application of the small gain theorem (see Chapter 8). This robust stability consequence was probably the main motivation for the development of $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ methods.

The analysis and synthesis for systems with multiple-block $\Delta$ can be reduced in most cases to an equivalent $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ problem with suitable scalings. Thus a solution to the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control problem is the key to all robustness problems considered in this book. In the next section, we shall give a chapter-by-chapter summary of the main results presented in this book.

We refer readers to the book Robust and Optimal Control by K. Zhou, J. C. Doyle, and K. Glover [1996] for a brief historical review of $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ and robust control and for some detailed treatment of some advanced topics.
