The term uncertainty refers to the differences or errors between models and reality, and whatever mechanism is used to express these errors will be called a representation of uncertainty. Representations of uncertainty vary primarily in terms of the amount of structure they contain. This reflects both our knowledge of the physical mechanisms that cause differences between the model and the plant and our ability to represent these mechanisms in a way that facilitates convenient manipulation. For example, consider the problem of bounding the magnitude of the effect of some uncertainty on the output of a nominally fixed linear system. A useful measure of uncertainty in this context is to provide a bound on the power spectrum of the output’s deviation from its nominal response. In the simplest case, this power spectrum is assumed to be independent of the input. This is equivalent to assuming that the uncertainty is generated by an additive noise signal with a bounded power spectrum; the uncertainty is represented as additive noise. Of course, no physical system is linear with additive noise, but some aspects of physical behavior are approximated quite well using this model. This type of uncertainty received a great deal of attention in the literature during the 1960s and 1970s, and elegant solutions are obtained for many interesting problems (e.g., white noise propagation in linear systems, Wiener and Kalman filtering, and LQG optimal control). Unfortunately, LQG optimal control did not address uncertainty adequately and hence had less practical impact than might have been hoped.
