# µ and µ Synthesis

It is noted that the robust stability and robust performance criteria derived in Chapter 8 vary with the assumptions about the uncertainty descriptions and performance requirements. We shall show in this chapter that they can all be treated in a unified framework using the LFT machinery introduced in the last chapter and the structured singular value to be introduced in this chapter. This, of course, does not mean that those special problems and their corresponding results are not important; on the contrary, they are sometimes very enlightening to our understanding of complex problems, such as those in which complex problems are formed from simple problems. On the other hand, a unified approach may relieve the mathematical burden of dealing with specific problems repeatedly. Furthermore, the unified framework introduced here will enable us to treat exactly the robust stability and robust performance problems for systems with multiple sources of uncertainties, which is a formidable problem from the standpoint of Chapter 8, in the same fashion as single unstructured uncertainty. Indeed, if a system is subject to multiple sources of uncertainties, in order to use the results in Chapter 8 for unstructured cases, it is necessary to reflect all sources of uncertainties from their known point of occurrence to a single reference location in the loop. Such reflected uncertainties invariably have a great deal of structure, which must then be “covered up” with a large, arbitrarily more conservative perturbation in order to maintain a simple cone-bounded representation at the reference location. Readers might have some idea about the conservativeness in such reflection based on the skewed specification problem, where an input multiplicative uncertainty of the plant is reflected at the output and the size of the reflected uncertainty is proportional to the condition number of the plant. In general, the reflected uncertainty may be proportional to the condition number of the transfer matrix between its original location and the reflected location. Thus it is highly desirable to treat the uncertainties as they are and where they are. The structured singular value is defined exactly for that purpose.
