Generally, the deviation’s power spectrum of the true output from the nominal will depend significantly on the input. For example, an additive noise model is entirely inappropriate for capturing uncertainty arising from variations in the material properties of physical plants. The actual construction of model sets for more general uncertainty can be quite difficult. For example, a set membership statement for the parameters of an otherwise known FDLTI model is a highly structured representation of uncertainty. It typically arises from the use of linear incremental models at various operating points (e.g., aerodynamic coefficients in flight control vary with flight environment and aircraft configurations, and equation coefficients in power plant control vary with aging, slag buildup, coal composition, etc.). In each case, the amounts of variation and any known relationships between parameters can be expressed by confining the parameters to appropriately defined subsets of parameter space. However, for certain classes of signals (e.g., high-frequency), the parameterized FDLTI model fails to describe the plant because the plant will always have dynamics that are not represented in the fixed order model.

In general, we are forced to use not just a single parameterized model but model sets that allow for plant dynamics that are not explicitly represented in the model structure. A simple example of this involves using frequency domain bounds on transfer functions to describe a model set. To use such sets to describe physical systems, the bounds must roughly grow with frequency. In particular, at sufficiently high frequencies, phase is completely unknown (i.e., ±180o uncertainties). This is a consequence of dynamic properties that inevitably occur in physical systems. This gives a less structured representation of uncertainty.

Examples of less structured representations of uncertainty are direct set membership statements for the transfer function matrix of the model. For instance, the statement

$$P _ {\Delta} (s) = P (s) + W _ {1} (s) \Delta (s) W _ {2} (s), \quad \overline {{\sigma}} [ \Delta (j \omega) ] < 1, \forall \omega \geq 0, \tag {8.1}$$
