For the moment, assuming we are given a model including a representation of uncertainty that we believe adequately captures the essential features of the plant, the next step in the controller design process is to determine what structure is necessary to achieve the desired performance. Prefiltering input signals (or open-loop control) can change the dynamic response of the model set but cannot reduce the effect of uncertainty. If the uncertainty is too great to achieve the desired accuracy of response, then a feedback structure is required. The mere assumption of a feedback structure, however, does not guarantee a reduction of uncertainty, and there are many obstacles to achieving the uncertainty-reducing benefits of feedback. In particular, since for any reasonable model set representing a physical system uncertainty becomes large and the phase is completely unknown at sufficiently high frequencies, the loop gain must be small at those frequencies to avoid destabilizing the high-frequency system dynamics. Even worse is that the feedback system actually increases uncertainty and sensitivity in the frequency ranges where uncertainty is significantly large. In other words, because of the type of sets required to model physical systems reasonably and because of the restriction that our controllers be causal, we cannot use feedback (or any other control structure) to cause our closed-loop model set to be a proper subset of the open-loop model set. Often, what can be achieved with intelligent use of feedback is a significant reduction of uncertainty for certain signals of importance with a small increase spread over other signals. Thus, the feedback design problem centers around the tradeoff involved in reducing the overall impact of uncertainty. This tradeoff also occurs, for example, when using feedback to reduce command/disturbance error while minimizing response degradation due to measurement noise. To be of practical value, a design technique must provide means for performing these tradeoffs. We shall discuss these tradeoffs in more detail in the next chapter.
