# Controller Reduction

We have shown in the previous chapters that the $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control theory and $\mu$ synthesis can be used to design robust performance controllers for highly complex uncertain systems. However, since a great many physical plants are modeled as high-order dynamical systems, the controllers designed with these methodologies typically have orders comparable to those of the plants. Simple linear controllers are normally preferred over complex linear controllers in control system designs for some obvious reasons: They are easier to understand and computationally less demanding; they are also easier to implement and have higher reliability since there are fewer things to go wrong in the hardware or bugs to fix in the software. Therefore, a lower-order controller should be sought whenever the resulting performance degradation is kept within an acceptable level. There are usually three ways to arrive at a lower-order controller. A seemingly obvious approach is to design lower-order controllers directly based on the high-order models. However, this is still largely an open research problem. Another approach is first to reduce the order of a high-order plant and, second, based on the reduced plant model, design a lower-order controller. A potential problem associated with this approach is that such a lower-order controller may not even stabilize the full-order plant since the error information between the full-order model and the reduced-order model is not considered in the design of the controller. On the other hand, one may seek to design first a high-order, high-performance controller and subsequently proceed with a reduction of the designed controller. This approach is usually referred to as controller reduction. A crucial consideration in controller order reduction is to take into account the closed loop so that closed-loop stability is guaranteed and the performance degradation is minimized with the reduced-order controllers. The purpose of this chapter is to introduce several controller reduction methods that can guarantee closed-loop stability and possibly closed-loop performance as well.
