without explicitly mentioning the condition that the control should drive the state to the origin. Instead some assumptions are imposed on $Q , S ,$ , and R (or, equivalently, on $C _ { 1 }$ and $D _ { 1 2 } )$ to ensure that the optimal control law u has this property. To see what assumption one needs to make to ensure that the minimization problem formulated in equations (13.4) and (13.5) has a sensible solution, let us consider a simple example with $A = 1$ , $B = 1 , Q = 0 , S = 0$ , and R = 1:

$$\min _ {u \in \mathcal {L} _ {2} [ 0, \infty)} \int_ {0} ^ {\infty} u ^ {2} d t, \quad \dot {x} = x + u, \quad x (0) = x _ {0}.$$

It is clear that $u = 0$ is the optimal solution. However, the system with $u = 0$ is unstable and $x ( t )$ diverges exponentially to infinity since $x ( t ) = e ^ { t } x _ { 0 }$ . The problem with this example is that this performance index does not $\mathrm { { ^ { 6 6 } s e e ^ { 9 } } }$ the unstable state x. Thus, to ensure that the minimization problem in equations (13.4) and (13.5) is sensible, we must assume that all unstable states can be “seen” from the performance index; that is, $( C _ { 1 } , A )$ must be detectable. An LQR problem with such an assumption will be called a standard LQR problem.

On the other hand, if the closed-loop stability is imposed on the preceding minimization, then it can be shown that min $\begin{array} { r } { \cdot u \in \mathcal { L } _ { 2 } [ 0 , \infty ) \int _ { 0 } ^ { \infty } u ^ { 2 } d t = 2 x _ { 0 } ^ { 2 } } \end{array}$ and $u ( t ) = - 2 x ( t )$ is the optimal control. This can also be generalized to a more general case where $( C _ { 1 } , A )$ is not necessarily detectable. Such a LQR problem will be referred to as an Extended LQR problem.
