# Preface

Robustness of control systems to disturbances and uncertainties has always been the central issue in feedback control. Feedback would not be needed for most control systems if there were no disturbances and uncertainties. Developing multivariable robust control methods has been the focal point in the last two decades in the control community. The state-of-the-art $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ robust control theory is the result of this effort.

This book introduces some essentials of robust and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control theory. It grew from another book by this author, John C. Doyle, and Keith Glover, entitled Robust and Optimal Control, which has been extensively class-tested in many universities around the world. Unlike that book, which is intended primarily as a comprehensive reference of robust and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control theory, this book is intended to be a text for a graduate course in multivariable control. It is also intended to be a reference for practicing control engineers who are interested in applying the state-of-the-art robust control techniques in their applications. With this objective in mind, I have streamlined the presentation, added more than 50 illustrative examples, included many related $\mathrm { M A T L A B } ^ { \mathrm { \textregistered } }$ commands1 and more than 150 exercise problems, and added some recent developments in the area of robust control such as gap metric, ν-gap metric, model validation, and mixed µ problem. In addition, many proofs are completely rewritten and some advanced topics are either deleted completely or do not get an in-depth treatment.
