$$(I - \gamma_ {\mathrm{opt}} ^ {- 2} Y _ {\infty} X _ {\infty}) \dot {\hat {x}} = A _ {s} \hat {x} - L _ {\infty} y \tag {14.16}u = F _ {\infty} \hat {x} \tag {14.17}$$

where $A _ { s } : = A + B _ { 2 } F _ { \infty } + L _ { \infty } C _ { 2 } + \gamma _ { \mathrm { o p t } } ^ { - 2 } Y _ { \infty } A ^ { * } X _ { \infty } + \gamma _ { \mathrm { o p t } } ^ { - 2 } B _ { 1 } B _ { 1 } ^ { * } X _ { \infty } + \gamma _ { \mathrm { o p t } } ^ { - 2 } Y _ { \infty } C _ { 1 } ^ { * } C _ { 1 }$ . (See Example 14.3.)

The formulas in Theorem 14.1 are not well-defined in the optimal case because the term $( I - \gamma _ { \mathrm { o p t } } ^ { - 2 } X _ { \infty } Y _ { \infty } )$ is not invertible. It is possible but far less likely that conditions (i) or (ii) would fail before (iii). To see this, consider (i) and let $\gamma _ { 1 }$ be the largest γ for which $H _ { \infty }$ fails to be in dom(Ric) because the $H _ { \infty }$ matrix fails to have either the stability property or the complementarity property. The same remarks will apply to (ii) by duality.

If complementarity fails at $\gamma = \gamma _ { 1 }$ , then $\rho ( X _ { \infty } )  \infty \mathrm { \ a s \ } \gamma  \gamma _ { 1 }$ . For $\gamma < \gamma _ { 1 }$ , $H _ { \infty }$ may again be in dom(Ric), but $X _ { \infty }$ will be indefinite. For such $\gamma ,$ the controller $u = - B _ { 2 } ^ { * } X _ { \infty } x$ would make $\| T _ { z w } \| _ { \infty } < \gamma$ but would not be stabilizing. (See part 1 of Example 14.3.) If the stability property fails at $\gamma = \gamma _ { 1 }$ , then $H _ { \infty } \notin$ dom(Ric) but Ric can be extended to obtain $X _ { \infty }$ so that a controller can be obtained to make $\| T _ { z w } \| _ { \infty } = \gamma _ { 1 }$ . The stability property will also not hold for any $\gamma \leq \gamma _ { 1 }$ , and no controller whatsoever exists that makes $\| T _ { z w } \| _ { \infty } < \gamma _ { 1 }$ . In other words, if stability breaks down first, then the infimum over stabilizing controllers equals the infimum over all controllers, stabilizing or otherwise. (See part 2 of Example 14.3.) In view of this, we would typically expect that complementarity would fail first.
