In the twentieth century, the idea of using guided missiles came during World War I. Specifically, and as stated above, the use of the airplane as a military weapon gave rise to the idea of using remote-controlled aircraft to bomb targets. As early as 1913, René Lorin, a French engineer, proposed and patented the idea for a ramjet powerplant. In 1924, funds were allocated in the United States to develop a missile using radio control. Many moderately successful flights were made during the 1920s with this control, but by 1932 the project was closed because of luck of funds. Radiocontrolled target planes were the first airborne remote-controlled aircraft used by the Army and Navy.

Dr. Robert H. Goddard was largely responsible for the interest in rockets back in the 1920s. Early in his experiments he found that solid-propellant rockets would not give him the high power or duration of power needed for a dependable supersonic motor capable of extreme altitudes. On March 16, 1926, Dr. Goddard successfully fired the first liquid-propellant rocket, which attained an altitude of 184 ft (56 m) and a speed of 60 mph (97 km/hr). Later, Dr. Goddard was the first to fire a rocket that reached a speed faster than the speed of sound. Moreover, he was the first to develop a gyroscopic steering apparatus for rockets, first to use vanes in the jet stream for rocket stabilization during the initial phase of a rocket in flight, and the first to patent the idea of step rockets.

The first flight of a liquid-propellant rocket in Europe occurred in Germany on 14 March 1931. In 1932 Captain Walter Dornberger (later a general) of the German Army obtained the necessary approval to develop liquid-propellant rockets for military purposes [1]. Subsequently, by 1936 Germany decided to make research and development of guided missiles a major project, known as the “Peenemünde Project,” at Peenemünde, Germany. The German developments in the field of guided missiles during World War II were the most advanced of their time. Their most widely known missiles were the V-1 and V-2 surface-to-air missiles (note that the designation V1 and/or V2 is also found in the literature). As early as the spring of 1942, the original V-1 had been developed and flight-tested at Peenemünde.
