where $\Delta M _ { F }$ is the expended fuel mass in [kg]. When the missile time of flight exceeds the current section cut-off time, the model sets the missile performance variables using the next flight section data. If the stage identifier for a new flight section differs from the identifier of the previous stage, representing a missile stage transition, the dry and fuel masses are updated by

$$M _ {D t} = M _ {D t} - M _ {D L}, \tag {6.254a}M _ {F T} = M _ {F T} - M _ {F L}, \tag {6.254b}$$

where

$$M _ {D L} = \text { last stage dry mass } [ \mathrm{kg} ],M _ {F L} = \text { last stage available fuel mass } [ \mathrm{kg} ].$$

The expended fuel $\Delta M _ { F }$ is reset to 0.0 and the total mass $M _ { T }$ is then updated using (6.253b). This procedure of updating performance variables and masses based on current flight section data is repeated until the missile impacts the ground (or target).

Each missile guidance phase consists of an end time (sec), pitch angle (degrees), pitch rate (deg/sec), and a flag for performing a gravity turn. The end time tells the model when to transition to the next guidance phase. The pitch angle defines how the missile is to be aligned at the start of the phase. If it is the first guidance phase or if the gravity turn option is selected, then the pitch angle tells the model to rotate the missile body-axis to this absolute angle. Otherwise, the pitch angle is the relative number of degrees to rotate the missile from its current orientation. The pitch rate defines the speed at which the missile should pitch until the end of the current guidance phase. The gravity turn flag tells the model to limit the angle of attack, that is, the angle between the velocity vector and the missile body-axis (or missile longitudinal axis), to zero. As discussed in Section 6.5.4, thrust and drag are then aligned with the velocity vector, and so gravity is the only force that causes the missile to pitch. This multiphase capability allows for vertical flight segments, constant-attitude flight segments, thrusted and unthrusted gravity turns, as well as pitch programs whose inputs must be determined. Note that both pitch angle and rate are measured from the launch position ENU vertical to maintain a constant frame of reference for measuring pitch throughout the flyout. This approach simulates the constant reference frame provided by a gyroscope in the actual missile system.
