For more details on proportional navigation, the reader is referred to Section 4.5 and Figures 4.3 and 4.11.

Three-Point: In three-point guidance, the missile is constantly being steered to lie between the target tracker and target. This type of trajectory is typically used only in short-range missile systems employing command-to-line-of-sight (CLOS) or beam-rider guidance. Thus, three-point guidance refers to the ground tracker, missile, and target. Three-point guidance is also known in the literature as constant bearing guidance [17]. Note that as we shall see later, constant bearing guidance is a specialized case of proportional navigation; that is, constant-bearing guidance is obtained in the limit as $N ^ { \prime } \to \infty$ .

Hyperbolic Guidance: The guidance or control of a guided missile or the like in which the difference in the time of delay of radio signals transmitted simultaneously from two ground stations, arriving at the missile at different time intervals, controls the position of the missile. This system is based upon the geometric theorem that the locus of all points of fixed difference in distance from two base points is a hyperbola.

Another type of guidance technique is the retransmission guidance. This type of guidance, also known as track via missile (TVM), is the latest technique to be used to direct missiles toward air targets. Typically, in this case a ground radar tracking system tracks both the target and the missile, as in command guidance. However, in TVM the target-tracking beam also serves as a target illuminator, and a receiver on the missile detects the reflected illumination, as in semiactive homing guidance. The ground computer generates commands and returns them to the missile to both guide and control the radar target tracker. It should be pointed out that the data link in this guidance technique must be secure in order to prevent jamming.
