In this book we will be concerned mainly with air-launched cruise missiles. However, a brief description of the SLAM and SLCM will now be given. The standoff land-attack missile (SLAM) is an imaging infrared (IIR; also seen as $I ^ { 2 } R )$ seeker, man-in-the-loop, terminally guided missile that is a derivative of the AGM-84A Harpoon antiship missile. The SLAM can be launched from aircraft (e.g., A-6E, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-16C Fighting Falcon, P-3 Orion, and the B-52H Stratofortress). The SLAM is capable of two modes of operation: (1) planned mission against high-value fixed or relocatable land targets, and (2) mission against ships at sea. Moreover, the SLAM shares common control, warhead, and sustainer sections with the Harpoon. Its navigational heart is the Rockwell/Collins single-channel GPS receiver/processor that determines the missile’s three-dimensional location within 52 ft (16 m) and its velocity within 0.5 ft/sec (0.2 m/sec). GPS aiding of the missile’s inertial navigation system (INS) during flight provides precise midcourse navigation accuracy. Section 7.5 discusses in more detail the GPS system and its role in aiding the INS. After launch, the SLAM flies automatically to the area of the target via its GPS-aided inertial navigation system. Consequently, at a preprogrammed point approximately one minute before target impact, the seeker turns on and, because of the GPS-aided navigation accuracy, should be looking directly at the target. The controller (i.e., man-in-the-loop) views the target scene and selects an aim point for the terminal phase via the SLAM’s data link, and the missile flies automatically to that point. That is, once the IIR is activated, it sends a video image to the pilot, who then selects an aim point on the target.
