There are several guided systems that fall into this category. The most common ones are the short-range homing systems and some type of inertial system. These terminal systems may also be the only guidance systems used in short-range missiles. Furthermore, it was mentioned in Chapter 1 that prelaunch aiming errors must be minimized because these errors tend to translate directly into miss distance. The prelaunch requirements are given in Table 4.1 Subsequent to launch, the missile has certain requirements. First, the missile needs a target signal. For example, in the case of a semiactive guided missile, the target signal is the result of energy reflected from the target. The source of this energy is the interceptor, which in turn receives energy from the illuminator. Thus, subsequent to launch, the missile requires that the target be continuously illuminated. Target illumination, by itself, does not require that the interceptor track the target, although this may occur. In addition, the missile requires the presence of certain modulations on the target return, which are conveniently impressed on the illuminating signal itself. Typically, this is an 85 Hz FM ranging signal, which the missile uses to select the target from clutter or noise.

Table 4.1. Prelaunch Requirements

<table><tr><td>Activation</td><td>Three-Phase PowerRear RF Reference</td></tr><tr><td>Target Location</td><td>Angle and Angle RateRange and Range RateHead Aim, English BiasRange at Launch, True Air SpeedSimulated Doppler, Sweep Control</td></tr><tr><td>Conditioning Signals</td><td>Autopilot CommandsSweep Select</td></tr><tr><td>Commitment</td><td>Battery/Hydraulic (or other) ActivateBattery Up</td></tr><tr><td>Postlaunch Requirements: (a) Target(b) Missile(c) Interceptor</td><td>Missile tracks target returnMissile generates guidance commands from tracking dataInterceptor illuminates target to provide signal for missile to track</td></tr></table>

Command guidance techniques as well as other command/homing methods, which are part of the postlaunch phase, can be effected in a number of ways, the more prominent of which are listed below:
