As stated above, the Boeing 747-400F underwent extensive modifications. More specifically, the nose is a 12,000-pound rotating turret, which eventually will house the ABL’s 5-foot telescope, the lens through which three of four onboard lasers will be fired. Besides the lethal light source, a chemical oxygen iodine laser (COIL) provided by TRW (see discussion above) is capable of producing from more than 200 miles away a basketball-sized spot hotter than the equivalent of 10,000 100-watt light bulbs. The aircraft also will be equipped with two solid-state kilowatt-class lasers used for tracking, aiming, and measuring the amount of atmospheric distortion between the plane and the target, a phenomenon corrected using adaptive optics. The only major laser that will not be fired through the turret will be a tracking device called the Active Ranger System, a $C O _ { 2 }$ laser that sits in a teardrop-shaped pod atop the aircraft on the distinctive 747 “hump.” Installed will also be 6 IR tracking devices, one each in the front and rear, and two on each side, to detect the heat generated by boosting missiles.

At this stage of development, the turret is made up of a rotating clamp-like device called a roll shell, and a large ball made of composite material that will simulate the housing for the five-and-a-half-foot window through which the laser beams will be fired. The turret weighs as much as the fixture that will later be installed on the aircraft and used during testing On December 19, 2002, the aircraft, tail No. 00-0001, moved to Edwards AFB, California, for installation of the optics and laser elements and to undergo flight tests and evaluation. A two-year-long series of tests is planned. During the NMD test (IFT-10) on December 11, 2002, the YAL-1A checked its IR sensors by observing the launch of the target missile from 38,000 ft and 300 mi away.

Although the aircraft is generically known as ABL, its official name is YAL-1A, which in Air Force nomenclature stands for Prototype Attack Laser, Model 1-A (see also Appendix E). If testing goes well, it will be followed by a so-far undetermined number of similar aircraft.
