The Russian Igla (9M342) man-portable shoulder-launched SAM is now in production. This missile, while externally similar to the basic 9M39 Igla, is claimed to have significantly enhanced performance; the latest version can be used effectively to engage cruise missiles and UAVs. The Igla missile family, including the basic 9M39 (SA-18 Gimlet) and the improved 9M313 (SA-16 Grouse) missiles, have been widely exported. The latest Igla version is dubbed Igla-S (Super), and has a warhead weighing 2.5 kg (5.5 lb) compared with 1.2 kg for the basic Igla. Lethality has also been improved by fitting the missile with a laser proximity fuze having a guaranteed detection radius of 1.5 m (4.9 ft). A five-meter false detection gate limit has also been set. In terms of range, control modifications to reduce missile drag have resulted in the maximum slant range of the missile being increased to 6,000 meters, versus 5,200 meters for the basic design. The SA-18 Gimlet (9M39 Igla) was used by Yugoslav ground forces during the Kosovo conflict.

Matra BAe Dynamics upgraded and improved the performance of the Mistral surface-to-air missile, which is now designated Mistral 2. The “fire and forget” Mistral 2 has a 6-km (3.7-mi) range and can fly at Mach 3 at a 6,600-ft maximum altitude. It has a solid rocket booster and a passive IR guidance system, weighs 44 lb, and carries a 6.6-lb warhead. In addition to the portable version, the company has developed a twin launcher mounted on wheeled and tracked armored vehicles, an air-to-air derivative for attack helicopters, and a naval surface-to-air antiaircraft/antimissile version.
