Associated with weapon delivery is the problem of survivability. Survivability will be enhanced through the use of emerging technologies that will allow single-pilot night-in-weather operations at altitudes and speeds that are impossible to attain with current systems or their derivatives. The principal concept used to ensure a high degree of survivability and mission success is passive operation. During penetration, terrain following/terrain avoidance/threat avoidance (TF/TA2) will be employed at low altitudes (150–200 ft; 46–61 m). Target location is to be provided by mission planning or forward air controller (FAC) in common coordinate system directly to passive onboard navigation. In the target area and in weather described for this scenario, passive IR target detection and identification will be used in order to maintain the element of surprise and a high probability of survival. During attack, the navigation/forwardlooking infrared (NAV/FLIR) is correlated to a targeting FLIR where three line-pairs are required to provide target identification.

Very low level penetration can be selected for a mission after considering the alternatives of high or medium altitudes. High altitude offers low threat density and good target view but does not provide for a surgical weapon delivery. In a forward base concept of operation, climbing to medium or high altitude allows exposure to early warning (EW) radars and IR weapons. Low altitude with GPS navigation offers both survival benefits and close-in attack. Target acquisition and identification with very high speed correlation, when coupled to new multikill weapons, can produce orders-of-magnitude improvement in lethality.
