No matter what theoretical techniques are used to develop the optimal control strategy, they will always be based on the minimization (or maximization) of some performance index.
Hence, the optimal control strategy will be no better than our selection of the critical performance drivers and our translation of these into concise mathematical terms.
In addition to the performance index, two other formulations will impact the optimal control strategy, namely, the mathematical model of the system and the additional equality and inequality constraints to be placed on the system.
In general, a more detailed system model results in a more accurate control strategy, but this is achieved at the expense of additional complexity in both the derivation and resulting algorithms.
The selection of appropriate equality/inequality constraints can be based upon either actual system parameters or trajectory properties that we want the optimal solution to possess.
Some of the modern control techniques that have been investigated and/or applied are (1) reachable set theory, (2) singular perturbation theory, (3) differential game theory, and (4) adaptive control theory.

The performance index (also known as cost functional) study is a fundamental but extremely complex problem. To be sure, the mission objectives influence the choice of the parameters/states that are included in the performance index. However, there are many other factors that must be considered in the construction of the performance index. These additional factors are due to the interrelationships of the steps involved in the modern control problem formulation. Specifically, for every different performance index or cost functional there is a different optimal guidance law. In essence, the measure of performance for any guidance law will be the ability of the missile to hit the target (e.g., minimum terminal miss distance) in various engagement scenarios. Additional measures of performance involve (1) launch envelope (full 360◦ launch aspect angle, minimum inner launch boundary), (2) fuel considerations, (3) time considerations, and (4) maneuver capability.
