Weapon Separation Effects. Weapon separation effects are defined to be changes in free-fall ballistics due to the interaction between aircraft and weapon. These effects are unique for each aircraft/weapon combination, and tend to vary with the release conditions. The separation effects equations can be derived empirically from flight-test results. The need for separation effects corrections depends on (1) weapon, (2) dynamic pressure, (3) Mach number, (4) bomb rack position, and (5) normal acceleration. Dynamic pressure has a secondary effect for subsonic releases. The separation effects equation for velocity correction for both along the flight path and cross-track (i.e., special release bombing only) is of the form

$$V = K _ {0} + K _ {1} M, \tag {5.58}$$

while the form for velocity correction normal to the flight path is

$$V = K _ {0} + K _ {1} M + K _ {2} a _ {n}, \tag {5.59}$$

where $a _ { n }$ is the normal acceleration and the constants are as defined previously. These equations are implemented with separation effects coefficients set to zero.

Wind Equations. The method used for wind prediction is a straight-line approximation using the values of wind speed at aircraft altitude. The equation has a slope that represents the expected decrease of wind velocity with altitude. Factors are computed to modify the equation for prediction of both along-track and cross-track winds. The assumed wind direction is constant, in the direction of wind velocity at aircraft altitude.

Coriolis and Centripetal Accelerations. The acceleration forces on the weapon include forces due to Coriolis and centripetal accelerations generated by Earth rotation and aircraft velocity [7].

Gravitational Variations. The acceleration due to gravity varies as a function of both altitude and latitude. The variation of gravity at sea level due to altitude is as follows [7]:

$$g _ {o} = 3 2. 0 8 8 2 + 0. 1 6 9 6 9 \sin^ {2} \phi - 1. 8 8 7 \times 1 0 ^ {- 4} \sin^ {2} (2 \phi), \tag {5.60}$$

where

$$g _ {o} = \text { gravitational acceleration at sea level },\phi = \text { latitude (i.e., present position) }.$$

The variation of gravity due to altitude can be simplified as follows:

$$g _ {h} = g _ {o} / \left[ 1 + \left(h / R _ {E}\right) \right] ^ {2}, \tag {5.61}$$

where

$$g _ {h} = \text { gravitational acceleration at altitude } h,h = \text { altitude above the Earth },R _ {E} = \text { radius of the Earth. }$$
