Up to now we have discussed the conventional and/or band-switched autopilot design. The design of adaptive autopilots follows as an extension. In a January 1949 symposium held at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, initiated by the former Air Research and Development Command (ARDC) and published in the form of a Western Area Development Command (WADC) technical report, a self-adaptive system is defined as one “which has the capability of changing its parameters through an internal process of measurement, evaluation, and adjustment to adapt to a changing environment, either external or internal, to the vehicle under control.” Or, in the definition by the Air Force, a self-adaptive autopilot measures its own performance, compares it to a standard, and adjusts one or more parameters until its performance meets the standard. There are self-adaptive autopilot design models. Historically, among the best known are the Sperry self-adaptive control system, the Minneapolis-Honeywell self-adaptive control system, and the M.I.T. self-adaptive autopilot. The Sperry self-adaptive control system was designed to keep the damping ratio of the servo poles between 0.11 and 0.23. The Sperry system demonstrated the practicality of the self-adaptive control system utilizing a maximum forward gain controlled by a self-contained process of measurement, evaluation, and adjustment. The Minneapolis-Honeywell self-adaptive control system uses a reference model as an input filter ahead of the summer. The dynamics of the model can be adjusted to yield an optimum response. A variant of this design is the MH-90 adaptive control system, which maintains the forward loop gain at a sufficient level so as to keep the complex servo poles on the imaginary axis. The MH-90 flight control system was developed specifically for the F-101 fighter aircraft. The M.I.T. system also uses a model. In this design, the output of the model is compared to the output of the system, and the gains of the system are adjusted as a function of the system error. That is, the gains are not kept at the highest possible level consistent with a certain stability level, but are adjusted so that certain error criteria are satisfied. For more details on these designs the reader is referred to [1], [4], [7], [11], [13], [14], and [15].
