From the above discussion we note that minimizing the performance index J results in the generation of a matrix of feedback gains K that when used by the LQR algorithm optimally translates the mission requirements into missile guidance commands. For example, in the case of a maximum-range missile flight, conserving energy is the dominant factor in the performance index, reflected in guidance commands that minimize induced drag. Furthermore, an in-flight perturbation that causes a departure from the nominal path will be allowed by the guidance system, maneuvers that slow the missile will be avoided, and final miss distance will be constrained. On the other hand, shorter-range flights require staying close to the nominal path, without regard for the wasted energy. This will be achieved by increasing the relative weight of the Q matrix on the nominal path deviations in the performance index.

As noted earlier, the control system objective, which is an essential element of the optimal control problem formulation, specifies the desired output of the system, defining the particular task to be performed and methods to be used. Typical control system objectives are minimum time, minimum fuel, minimum energy, terminal control, tracking control, and regulation. In practice, the input signals to the system are given by devices that provide limited amount of energy. As a result, the controls generated by these devices are constrained. The control history, which satisfies the control constraints during the interval $[ t _ { 0 } , t _ { f } ]$ , is termed an admissible or feasible control. If U represents the set of admissible controls, then an admissible control history of u is denoted by $u \in U$ . Similarly, the corresponding state history or trajectory is admissible if it satisfies the state constraints, that is, $x \in X$ , where X represents the set of admissible states. The controls described above are given below. For more details see [25].

Minimum Time: This entails the transferring of an arbitrary initial state $x ( t _ { 0 } ) = x _ { o }$ to a specified target set as fast as possible. For the minimum-time problem the performance measure takes the form

$$J (u) = t _ {f} - t _ {0} = \int_ {t _ {0}} ^ {t _ {f}} d t, \tag {4.137}$$

where $t _ { f }$ is the first time that $x ( t )$ intersects the target set.
