Weapons utilizing radiation as the destructive agent (in contrast to the explosive warhead) are referred to as directed high-energy weapons (DHEW). Commonly, there are three types of radiation that are propagated by the DHEW. These are (a) coherent electromagnetic flux, (b) noncoherent electromagnetic pulse (EMP), and (c) charged nuclear particles. The coherent electromagnetic flux is produced by the high-energy laser (HEL). The HEL generates and focuses electromagnetic energy into an intense concentration or beam of coherent waves that is pointed at the target. This beam of energy is then held on the target until the absorbed energy causes sufficient damage to the target, resulting in its destruction.

Radiation from a laser that is delivered in a very short period of time with a high intensity is referred to as a pulse-laser beam. The noncoherent electromagnetic pulse consists of an intense electronic signal of very short duration that is radiated through space like a radio signal. When an EMP strikes an aircraft, the electronic devices in the aircraft can be totally disabled or destroyed. The charged-particle-beam weapon produces radiation in the form of accelerated subatomic particles. A laser beam (of relatively low power) can also be used to guide a weapon. Laser-guided weapons home on energy reflected from the target. Typically, a forward air observer designates a target, and a spot of laser light is shined on the target. The homing weapon detects the reflected laser light from the target, and its autopilot steers a course to impact on the laser spot. A device known as a laser target designator produces the laser beam. These target designators are normally carried on board a forward air observer aircraft (e.g., the O-1, O-2, OV-10). It is essential that there exist a direct line of sight between the designator and the target, and the laser must operate during the entire terminal guidance phase of the weapon’s flight.
