One of the most recent milestones, as stated above, was the delivery of the first two of six IR sensors to the Boeing Company. The sensors, derivatives of the F-14 infrared search and track system, will be used by ABL to spot the boosting missile and provide 360◦ coverage. The sensors are being used to refine missile-tracking software. Tests will continue on fire-control elements, laser modules, and the battle-management system. Final integration and lethality tests, including a live-fire demonstration on a Scud-like missile, are scheduled for 2003 with final IOC projected in 2007.

Confidence in the emerging field of laser weapons technology was bolstered in 2000 when the U.S. Army destroyed a short-range Katyusha rocket with its tactical high-energy laser (THEL). Although THEL is aimed against a different set of targets from those targeted by the ABL or SBL, operating at much shorter ranges, in many respects, the Katyusha is a more difficult target to destroy.

The ABL system integrates technologies such as a modified F-14 IR search and track system mentioned above, LANTIRN targeting pods, and five lasers to locate, track, and destroy enemy ballistic missiles, similar to those used in the Gulf War. The system first looks into enemy territory to detect the launch of a missile. When it determines that the missile is a threat, it builds up laser energy and directs it at the missile through the 1,000-pound glass lens in its front turret. This causes the outside of the missile to heat up to the point that the missile ruptures. This process all takes place quickly enough to destroy the missile soon after launch, in what is called the boost phase. The ABL ushers in a new capability to defend troops against theater ballistic missiles. Furthermore, when it detects a launch and is able to kill the missile early, it prevents debris from falling in friendly territory; this is particularly important with chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons. In addition to the laser’s ability to take out a ballistic missile directly, the battle management system on the aircraft can project a launched missile’s path and pass this information on to other systems, such as the U.S. Army’s Patriot (i.e., the PAC-3) missile defense system. As discussed earlier, this makes it an integral part of a layered defense system.
