The intent of this book is to present the fundamental concepts of guided missiles, both tactical, and strategic and the guidance, control, and instrumentation needed to acquire a target. In essence, this book is about the mathematics of guided flight. This book differs from similar books on the subject in that it presents a detailed account of missile aerodynamic forces and moments, the missile mathematical model, weapon delivery, GPS (global positioning system) and TERCOM(terrain contour matching) guidance, cruise missile mechanization equations, and a detailed analysis of ballistic guidance laws. Moreover, an attempt has been made to give each subject proper emphasis, while at the same time special effort has been put forth to obtain simplicity, both from the logical and pedagogical standpoint. Typical examples are provided, where necessary, to illustrate the principles involved. Numerous figures give the maximum value of visual aids by showing important relations at a glance and motivating the various topics. Finally, this book will be of benefit to engineers engaged in the design and development of guided missiles and to aeronautical engineering students, as well as serving as a convenient reference for researchers in weapon system design.

The aerospace engineering field and its disciplines are undergoing a revolutionary change, albeit one that is difficult to secure great perspective on at the time of this writing. The author has done his best to present the state of the art in weapons systems. To this end, all criticism and suggestions for future improvement of the book are welcomed.
