The boresight angle error ε, discussed in Section 3.4.1, is measured by the missile antenna gimbal (if a gimbaled system is used) system, and closing velocity $v _ { c }$ is determined from the target Doppler signal. The effective navigation ratio $( N ^ { \prime } )$ is based on the missile’s acceleration requirements and will vary depending on target maneuvers and other system-induced tracking-error sources. As stated earlier, in order to minimize missile acceleration requirement, values of $N ^ { \prime }$ in the range $3 \leq N ^ { \prime } \leq 5$ are usually used to obtain an acceptable miss distance at intercept. From Figure 3.21 it can be seen that the boresight angle ε can be expressed as

$$\varepsilon = \lambda - \theta_ {m} - \theta_ {h} + r, \tag {4.51}$$

where r is an error in the LOS measurement due to the radome (see also (3.73b). This error, in general, is not a constant, but it is a function of the gimbal angle. In an actual tracking system, the seeker does not respond instantaneously, and the radar antenna boresight will lag behind the LOS of the tracker (seeker). The magnitude of this lag depends upon the tracker time constant τ and is proportional to the line-of-sight rate. A simplified tracker can be represented by a first-order transfer function as follows:

$$\varepsilon = \left(\frac {d \lambda}{d t}\right) \cdot [ \tau / (1 + s \tau) ]. \tag {4.52}$$

The input to the tracker is the target position λ, and the output is ε. The denominator acts as a low-pass filter that will tend to damp out large disturbance rates. Additional error sources such as internal receiver noise and target-induced angular glint discussed in Section 3.4.2 must be included in order to accurately represent the overall performance of the missile guidance system. A schematic showing the functional characteristics of a typical guidance system is given in Figure 4.15. (Note that there are two similar control systems of this type used to stabilize the missile system about the pitch and yaw axes.)
