Error Multiplier: The error multiplier generates an acceleration command proportional to the product of head error (ε) and closing velocity $V _ { c }$ . The scale factor (K) of the acceleration command is 0.023 g’s per degree (ε) per foot per second $V _ { c } .$ , that is, 0.023 $g / \varepsilon$ .

Autopilot: The autopilot ensures that the missile achieves accelerations as commanded and maintains stability. The control system consists of a roll autopilot and two essentially identical pitch and yaw autopilots (see Section 3.5).

In order to get better insight into the navigation constant discussed earlier, consider now the problem of designing an advanced angle-tracking system for an air-to-air missile with all-aspect, all-altitude, and all-weather tactical capabilities, such as the ERAAM + (extended range air-to-air missile +), which is a more advanced extendedrange AIM-120A AMRAAM powered by a dual-pulse rocket motor. The AMRAAM is able to engage a target throughout the FOV of the fighter’s radar, including about $7 0 ^ { \circ }$ off boresight. After the AMRAAM is launched, the aircraft tracking radar would continue to provide updates, which would be relayed to the missile through the side and back lobes of the radar on the fighter that fired the missile. Another advanced missile using the above capabilities is the AIM-9X Sidewinder II.

Let us now return to (4.32). The missile steers a proportional navigation course against a maneuvering target. In the usual classical implementation, the measured error $\varepsilon _ { m }$ is processed through a transfer function (which encompasses the filter dynamics and controller) to generate a commanded radar-antenna rate $\omega _ { c }$ proportional to $\varepsilon _ { m }$ . The optimal Kalman filtering approach (see also Section 4.8.2) enables the missile designer to systematically and more effectively remove noise from $\varepsilon _ { m }$ and to obtain estimates of the radar antenna pointing (or tracking) error ε and the LOS rate $\omega _ { L O S }$ to form $\omega _ { c }$ . (Note that here we consider a conventional radar antenna, not an ESA.) The advantages of having an estimate of $\omega _ { L O S }$ available as a result of optimal filtering are that it can be used as (1) a rate-aiding term to improve the tracking performance, and (2) a signal for missile steering that is statistically more accurate than the signal from the classical loop.
