Europe is also pursuing the development of cruise missiles. Specifically, Europe’s MBDA is developing the Scalp/Storm Shadow cruise missile, which will be installed on the Eurofighter, Rafale, Mirage 2000D, Mirage 2000-5, Tornado GR4, and Harrier GR7 aircraft. The British Storm Shadow variant is to enter service in 2002, the French Scalp version in 2003. MBDA has begun an early definition of an allweather, day/night naval version of its Scalp/Storm Shadow cruise missile intended for deep strikes at land targets from submarines and surface ships. The initial definition will primarily consist of missile design, platform integration, and mission planning. The naval Scalp/Storm Shadow weapon could offer a more accurate alternative to the U.S. Tomahawk by using GPS navigation and terminal guidance. Provisions are also being made to ensure that the stealthy, precision-attack weapon will be compatible with the proposed European global navigation satellite system (GNSS). More specifically, Scalp/Storm Shadow is designed to employ the U.S GPS for midcourse updates in addition to TERPROM (see Section 7.4.1) terrain-following and inertial guidance systems. An imaging IR sensor mounted in the nose of the weapon and an autonomous target recognition system will provide terminal guidance. The naval Scalp cruise missile is tentatively scheduled to enter service around the year 2009.

Cruise missiles of other countries are as follows: China, Delilah 2 and C-802; France, Apache (an earlier French cruise missile is the sea-skimming Exocet, which is in the inventory of several foreign countries); Israel, Gabriel 3, 4 and Popeye 1, 3; Russia, Shaddock, Kh-55, and AFM-L Alpha; and United Kingdom, Centaur and Tomahawk. Russia also developed the supersonic Yakhont (NATO designation SS-N-26) rocket/ramjet antiship cruise missile. The Yakhont antiship weapon carries a 440-lb warhead, has a rear rocket booster with thrust-vectoring control, and employs integral kerosene-fueled ramjet propulsion to achieve operating speeds of
