In order to intercept high-speed targets such as supersonic fighter aircraft or missiles, a semiactive homing missile must follow a lead (collision) course. If the target flies a straight-line constant-velocity course, the missile can also follow a straight-line collision course if its velocity does not change. In actual situations, there usually are variations in missile speed, changes in its path, maneuvers of the target, etc. The missile has to adjust its direction to maintain a constant bearing with the target. The components in the missile must be able to sense the changes and make the necessary adjustments in its course to the target. The missile velocity is seldom constant. Boost-glide or boost-sustain-glide thrust schemes result in nonuniform speeds. Irregular propellant burning changes thrust and therefore affects speed. Wind gusts and/or air density variations can change the speed and path of the missile. The same factors can also influence the target trajectory. As we will see later, the missile must use proportional navigation in order to achieve target intercept. If the missile path is changed at the same rate as the target bearing, the missile will have to turn at an increasing rate, and will end up chasing the target. This flight path follows a pursuit curve, and the missile cannot maintain a constant bearing with the target. It is just keeping up with changes in target bearing and may not be able to catch up with the target. Figure 4.4 illustrates a general pursuit course.
