Future requirements for a stealthy cruise missile with a range of 1,000–2,000 nautical miles appears an attractive option. Stealth similar to JASSM’s all-aspect low observability will be a basic future requirement. Also, hypersonic speed will be an option. Other future cruise missile designs such as the extended-range cruise missile (ERCM) and the long-range cruise missile (LRCM) will be designed for greater survivability and fitted with a terminal-seeker, two-way data link capability to be able to retarget the missile in flight, that is, even after it has separated from the bomber (i.e., the B-52H), a bigger warhead (i.e., of the 3,000-lb-class), and longer range (e.g., more than 1,000 nm). It should be pointed out here that the U.S. Navy is already including in its Tactical Tomahawk two-way data link capability to be able to retarget the missile in flight. Moreover, the LRCM will be designed for increased survivability through the use of low-observable technologies or countermeasures. The possibility exists that the LRCM might be designed to be much smaller than CALCM and be able to be carried by fighters. However, to fit internally on a JSF, the weapon could be no larger than the current JSOW, which accommodates only a much smaller warhead. At this point it should be pointed out that the JSOW is a 1,000-lb-class launch-and-leave glide weapon with standoff capability. It will be used against a variety of targets and employs GPS/INS to allow day, night, and adverse weather operations. These features will also permit the JSOW to operate from ranges outside enemy point defenses. A JSOW-B is also being considered. For more details on the JSOW, the reader is referred to Appendix F, Table F.2. The LRCM would have to be even smaller to fit inside an F/A-22 Raptor weapons bay. (The B-52H can carry eight cruise missiles internally). On the ERCM, there are a few minor improvements that the Air Force would like to see. One is the ability to more easily reprogram the missile’s target coordinates once the bomber has taken off.
