Finally, it should be noted that no one type of guidance is best suited for all applications. Consequently, many missile systems use more than one type of guidance, with each one operating during a certain phase of the interceptor missile’s trajectory. For example, a system may use beam-rider guidance or semiactive homing from launch until midcourse, at which time the guidance mode switches to active or passive homing for more accurate tracking and guidance during the terminal phase. An advantage of this technique is that this combination allows the launching aircraft to break away from the engagement earlier than otherwise possible. Such systems are commonly referred to as composite guidance systems. Several types of guidance may also be used simultaneously to avoid countermeasures employed by the aircraft, such as the use of a decoy flare to draw an infrared homing missile off the radiation from the aircraft. However, if an active homing system is used in conjunction with a passive one, the missile may reject the flare and continue on toward the target aircraft.

Of particular significance, from the point of view of defensive weapons, is the surface-to-air missile. A surface-to-air missile is launched from the ground or from the surface of the sea against an airborne target. It is generally a defensive weapon, since its function is to intercept an enemy aircraft or an incoming missile that is approaching the point or area to be defended. In synthesizing a surface-to-air airdefense missile system the designer must make two basic decisions: (1) the method of guiding the missile, and (2) the type of path over which it travels to the target. The homing, beam-rider (or CLOS), and command types of guidance are all applicable to surface-to-air missiles.
