# 5.3.2 Aircraft Sensors

A variety of devices are available for onboard measurement of elements of the bombing problem. These devices, or sensors, can measure range, angle, velocity, or acceleration. A critical input to most methods of solving the ballistic trajectory is range to the target. Typical instruments measure range using radar or laser beams, or estimate range by using barometric pressure. The accuracies of these devices affect the total system bombing accuracy and are a significant input to the accuracy model used to develop estimates. Sighting angles are a critical input to target designation. Angle rate systems use this quantity to replace range in the bombing solution.

One means of controlling the release involves a display of the ballistic solution on a sighting device. The displayed solution may be a static canned one, valid for only a specific set of conditions, or it may be dynamic, changing to reflect current delivery aircraft altitude, range, and velocity data. This display of the predicted impact point on the sighting device permits steering the delivery aircraft to obtain coincidence, just as a marksman places the crosshairs of a rifle’s sight on a target. If the displayed ballistic solution is dynamic, it provides a CCIP. This technique has significant advantages for tactical maneuvering to enhance delivery aircraft survival while providing improved accuracy over fixed-sight canned solutions.

A second means of providing control information involves the display of the difference, or delta, between existing sighting and ballistic solutions. Display methods vary from cockpit steering and time-to-go meters/indicators to sophisticated HUD steering and release cue symbology. This solution technique provides direction from the present position to the release point where the delta signal will be zero. The ballistic and sighting values are dynamic, and the display provides direction for this CCRP. The CCRP technique is particularly well suited for deliveries where the sighting device(s) is separated from steering data, as for radar deliveries, or for loft maneuvers, where sighting may be discontinued before release is effected. In some computing systems, CCRP steering may involve established values at a designated point and performing a prescribed maneuver (such as a wings-level pull-up) to obtain release.
