In the critical period of homing guidance, the tendency of portions of the guidance system to saturate must be kept low in order to avoid a bad miss distance. An exception occurs just before intercept, when the LOS angle suddenly changes by almost $9 0 ^ { \circ }$ even for a small distance, thereby saturating the seeker servo and the autopilot. From Figure 3.40 for the parasitic attitude loop and Figure 3.36 for the pitch/yaw autopilot, it is apparent that the LOS-angle noise undergoes appreciable frequency-dependent ampli-fication before entering the fin servos. The fin servos may have a high probability of saturating in angle δ or rate $d \delta / d t$ on this noise, particularly the receivernoise component at a long illuminator-to-target range and missile-to-target range. The saturation itself tends to increase miss distance more than linear theory would indicate for the miss due to noise, perhaps because the effective fin-servo gain for the actual homing data on the $L O S$ rate $( \mathrm { i } . \mathrm { e } . , d \lambda / d t )$ is reduced by the saturation. Indeed, saturation can even cause a catastrophic loss of control. Obviously, a remedy for just the saturation problem per se would be to increase the low-pass filtering in Figure 3.40. However, as we shall see later, it is desirable to keep the guidance system fast in order to minimize miss distance. The following types of remedies may be helpful for the noise saturation problem: (1) Design efficient filtering in the parasitic attitude loop, to reduce high-frequency noise, maintain stability, and minimize miss distance; (2) choose sufficiently high power in the radar illuminator so that the receiver SNR is high and receiver noise is low; and (3) if possible, choose airframe design with sufficiently large tails, that is, sufficiently large $M _ { \delta }$ at high altitudes.
