where $\omega _ { c }$ is the commanded missile angular velocity vector and S is the gain factor that sets the bandwidth of the guidance control loop. Within the accuracy of the approximation that $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ lies along the longitudinal axis of the missile, the vector angular velocity command given by (6.194), will have zero component along the longitudinal or roll axis of the missile. In any case, only the pitch and yaw components of (6.257) would be instrumented. The roll control of the missile would consist in roll stabilization to maintain the missile axis system in proximity to the computer axis system. As mentioned above, for small angles the magnitude of the cross product of $- V _ { g }$ and $( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ is proportional to the product of the magnitudes of the two vectors and the angle between them. Another aspect to be considered is the computer coordinate system. The choice of computer axis system must be considered at this point, since it influences the instrumentation of both the guidance control system and the Q-matrix in the target indication system. The computer axis system is the set of coordinate axes along which components of $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ are computed. This system may or may not coincide with the coordinate system defined by the input axes of the accelerometers. The simplest airborne computer results from computing in the same set of coordinates in which the components of $\mathbf { a } _ { T }$ are measured. Other advantages accrue from instrumenting a matrix multiplication that transforms components of $\mathbf { a } _ { T }$ from the accelerometer axis system into a different computer axis system. One of the most important of these is the fact that it permits a single orientation of the inertial measurement unit (IMU) to be used regardless of the target assignment. In either case, an orthogonal coordinate system that is nonrotating with respect to the inertial space seems appropriate.

There are two other factors to be considered in choosing the computer coordinate system. These are:
