# 3.4.2 Missile Noise Inputs

We have heretofore assumed that the LOS rate, $d \lambda / d t$ , can be accurately measured by the radar on board the missile. In fact, however, noise within the radar and on the target signal limits the accuracy to which $d \lambda / d t$ can be measured, and significantly affects the miss distance. In either radar or an infrared system, noise tends to be a problem because it increases miss distance. In a radar system, the guidance designer would like to have high illuminating power on the target, in order to reduce the receiver gain and internally generated noise. The antenna size is made a maximum within the constraint of missile body diameter, so as to maximize power reception and to minimize the angular beamwidth. Furthermore, a passive infrared seeker is also designed to have a maximum aperture to maximize incoming power, and may utilize special optical modulation of the incoming radiation in order to amplify without drift the weak electrical signal of the infrared detector. Thus, in order to maximize the incoming infrared power, a tail attack against a jet aircraft tail pipe is preferred, as are moderate ranges and good weather. A small wavelength in a radar reduces the angular beamwidth, but the choice of wavelength is limited by problems of power generation and environmental absorption, etc. Consequently, a missile radar antenna usually has a relatively broad beamwidth, and so it is unable to resolve two closely spaced targets by their angular separation until the last moments of intercept. This classic problem may lead to a bad miss distance. Therefore, because of its much higher ratio of aperture diameter to wavelength, an infrared seeker has a narrower beamwidth and much higher angular resolution. Radar illumination may be continuous-wave (CW ) or pulsed, depending on which factor of application is governing. In a simple CW radar, the closing velocity $V _ { c }$ is obtained from Doppler measurements.
