Whatever the intended application, there is a wide choice of guidance types. Typically, the homing scheme is described by two terms, which indicate where the target-homing energy comes from, and what portion of the electromagnetic spectrum is being used. Examples are RF-active, RF-semiactive, and IR-passive. Nine combinations are common, though the great majority of air-to-air missiles use either radar or infrared (IR) as the radiation for homing. The various guidance sensor types for homing missiles can be categorized based on the type of radiation used for guidance. These are (see also Sections 3.4.3 and 3.4.4):

1. Radio/radar frequency (RF).

2. Infrared (IR).

3. Visible (Optical).

It should be noted that radiation, as defined here, is energy transmitted as either particles or waves through space at the speed of light. Radiation is capable of inflicting damage when it is transmitted toward the target either in a continuous beam or as one of high-intensity, short-duration pulses. The interceptor missile may also require direct illumination from the ground tracking system to use in the processing of the reflected signal from the target. With this type of guidance, and if the target is an aircraft, the aircraft may know it is being tracked, but it does not know whether a missile is on the way. With this homing technique, several targets can be illuminated and tracked on a time-share basis. Passive homing systems use electromagnetic emissions or natural reflections from the target itself for guidance. An example of passive homing is an infrared-type missile. As discussed in Chapter 3, an infrared guided missile homes in (i.e., closes) on the heat generated by the target (e.g., the tail exhaust of an aircraft). Another type of passive homing is the antiradiation missile. These missiles home in on radar navigation systems, fire-control signals, or on jamming signals from electronic countermeasure equipment on an aircraft. The most recent of these antiradiation missiles is the AARGM (advanced antiradiation guided missile). The AARGMs, which are based on the AGM-88 HARM airframe and use a combination of INS/GPS midcourse navigation, together with passive antiradiation homing and active millimeter-wave radar terminal guidance, are intended destroy emitters rather than merely disabling them. Figure 4.3 summarizes the various guidance techniques discussed above.
