# 3.4.4 Infrared Tracking Systems

In addition to the radar target-tracking seekers described in the previous section, a number of other target-tracking sensors are used in tactical missile guidance. In general, sensors used as seekers that depend on their operating wavelength are typically characterized (depending on the sensor’s operating wavelength) as (1) optical sensor, (2) infrared (IR) sensor, (3) synthetic aperture radar∗ (SAR), (4) laser radar (also known as ladar), (5) television (TV)/video, (6) microwave, (7) millimeter wave (MMW), and (8) acoustic sensors. In this section we will discuss the IR sensor. An obvious advantage of the IR sensor is that it is capable of operating during the day as well as at night, in conditions of rain or smoke, and capable of hot-spot detection. A word of caution, however, is in order here. An IR missile cannot be used in bad weather or at low altitude, where most targets are to be found. However, new types of seekers today offer greater sensitivity and the ability to distinguish between real and false targets by using advanced designs such as Cassegrain optics. A sensor that is worth mentioning is the IRSS sensor. The IRSS was designed to thwart heat-seeking missiles. Moreover, the IRSS is like an extra cowling that hides the heat-seeking signature of the engines from observers below. The system was first installed in the Vietnam-era AC-130H Spectre gunships.

For many years, a great deal of attention was paid to the infrared end of the spectrum (e.g., in surveillance systems and missile guidance), and this in turn stimulated the development of infrared materials. Specifically, infrared detection and tracking systems are often used in the guidance of tactical missiles, either by command, semiactive, or passive homing. For example, missiles using command guidance may carry an IR beacon in the tail. The beacon is passively tracked by an IR sensor in the tracking device while the operator attempts to track the target, usually with the aid of either direct-view optics or electrooptics (EO). In other words, the tracking system notes the difference in the target and missile positions and generates the necessary commands to direct the missile to an intercept. The command-to-LOS (CLOS) navigation technique is usually used when the target range information is not available.
