Gravitation Models for Missile Navigation There are several deterministic (as opposed to statistical) gravitation models from which to choose for real-time navigation in a missile computer. Among these deterministic models are [11] (a) zonal (or spherical) harmonics, (b) ellipsoidal harmonics, (c) tesseral harmonics, (d) point mass, (e) Chebychev polynomial, and (f) finite-element. Here we will choose the zonal harmonics model. Specifically, we will make use of only the second zonal harmonic (J ) and the fourth zonal harmonic (D) terms of the gravitational field, in which the international ellipsoid (1924) is treated as an equipotential surface for the gravitational field. Although gravitation generated by the other models mentioned above might have a significant effect relative to mission accuracy requirements, it is believed that these effects are best computed in the ground-based fire control computer, and then compensated by presets in the missile computer. It would also be desirable to determine whether the J and D terms could be likewise compensated. If so, the missile gravitation model reduces to the inverse square law, in which case it may be in the range amenable to solution on an airborne computer. A further benefit from the inverse square model is that it is not tied to the Earth’s polar axis. Gravitation can then be computed in accelerometer coordinates, thus eliminating an otherwise necessary coordinate conversion. This gravitation model computes and integrates gravitation explicitly in the computation cycle. For computation cycles up to $\frac { 1 } { 2 }$ second, the integration error is smaller than $4 \times 1 0 ^ { - 3 }$ ft/sec (through boost). Integration is performed directly on the gravitation vector in order to dimensionally match the output of the integrating accelerometers. The total inertial velocity change over the computation cycle is then the sum of the integrated gravitation and the accelerometer outputs.

Definitions: Position and velocity are expressed in an Earth-centered coordinate system, the third coordinate of which coincides with the Earth’s polar axis:

a = equatorial radius of the Earth,

$\psi$ = the latitude of the missile,

$g$ = intermediate variable,

g = gravitation vector at the cycle midpoint,

µ = Earth’s mass multiplied by the universal gravitation constant,

$$R = | \mathbf {R} |,$$
