Because of its importance in modern air combat, we will briefly discuss helmet-mounted displays (HMD) and the role they play in significantly aiding the pilot during air combat and weapon delivery. Flight tests conducted at Edwards AFB, California, in February 2000 in F-15 fighters indicate that the helmet system, in combination with the high off-boresight (HOB) AIM-9X missile, can increase the lethality of the F-15 by a factor of two or three. Together, the AIM-9X and the helmetmounted cueing system will reestablish a first-shot, first-kill capability. Since 1998, the helmet has accumulated about 110 flight hours in $F { - } I { 5 } ~ C ^ { \circ } { \mathrm { s } }$ and $D ' s$ and about 174 flight hours in $F / A { - } I \delta C ^ { \circ } \mathrm { s }$ and D’s. Known as the joint helmet-mounted cueing system (JHMCS), the helmet will change the nature of fighter aircraft combat and weapon delivery for pilots. For example, a pilot can use the helmet to update his navigation system if it has drifted simply by looking at known landmarks. The JHMCS is a revolutionary look-and-shoot tool worn by Air Force and Navy pilots seeking airborne and ground-based targets, and it is giving pilots a critical edge in combat. JHMCS displays such key information as (1) altitude, (2) airspeed, and (3) aircraft heading and target information on a visor attached to the helmet. This information is normally displayed on the HUD, located at the front of the cockpit. As a result, a pilot equipped with JHMCS will have the information available without the need to look inside the cockpit or through the HUD [9]. In other words, the JHMCS is a HUD on the head. Therefore, the JHMCS will offer U.S. pilots the ability to look, lock, and launch current and future generations of missiles at adversaries in the air and on the ground. The JHMCS initial production contract calls for 36 systems to support the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet (Lot 24) strike fighter.

A pilot can adjust the helmet’s display to go blank when he is looking either at the HUD or down into the cockpit. He can also program it to go blank for both areas.
