The fundamental effect of noise is to mask or hide the true value of $d \lambda / d t$ . Noise can occur due to target effects or receiver (missile) effects. As we saw in the previous subsection, the radome contributes a bias error due to the diffraction effects of the radome, which is called boresight error. Receiver noise is generated within the missile receiver, and the target signal must compete with it. This noise has increased angular amplitude at longer ranges, where the signal-to-noise ratio∗ (SNR) of the target is the lowest. Receiver noise consists primarily of thermal noise generated by the antenna and receiver electronics on board the missile. The effective amplitude of this noise increases with increasing range, because of the corresponding decreasing SNR. There are, in general, three types of missile receivers that can be considered. These are:

Passive: The target supplies the radiated signal.

Semiactive: The target is illuminated by a source that is not on board the missile.

Active: The target is illuminated by a source on board the missile.

Specifically, the receiver will generally include some type of automatic gain control, which attempts to keep the receiver signal power nearly constant. As a result, the effective noise level will change with received signal power relative to some reference level. Commonly, a normalized angular measurement noise model is defined that uses the variance (or power spectral density) of the indicated boresight error, measured at a range that yields an SNR of unity as the reference level.

In addition to the receiver noise, there are four other basic types of noise associated with the design of a missile guidance system. These are:
