# 6.9.1 Introduction

In recent years, several ballistic missile intercept concepts have been proposed as part of the overall ballistic missile defense (BMD) program. One such program was the midcourse concept. The missile defense technologies pursued presently include (a) the airborne laser (ABL), (b) the space-based laser (SBL), (c) the sea-based kineticenergy kill concept, and (d) the space-based hit-to-kill experiment. The latter two are being considered to serve as hedges in case the directed-energy (DE) approaches fail.

Nevertheless, DE is considered to be the “new frontier,” in that it provides military planners a new capability in warfare: to be able to fight at the speed of light. Also, the Air Force intends to put a high-power microwave (HPM) weapon on an advanced version of its unmanned strike aircraft by the year 2012. Moreover, the U.S. Congress wants DE weapons technology and the UCAV to make up one-third of the strike inventory by 2010. Previously, attention has been focused on airborne chemical lasers to destroy ballistic missiles. The Navy’s DD-X ship design will use DE weapons that can destroy supersonic antiship missiles. However, for the near term, interest is turning to smaller, cheaper solid-state HEL and HPM weapons. A solid-state laser generates pulsed power that creates an energy buildup that damages targets made of relatively soft, easy-to-melt metals such as aluminum and other lightweight materials used in missiles. UCAVs equipped with DE weapons are also envisioned to strike air defense missiles and radar sites. Currently, the DoD is putting new emphasis on the boost-phase intercept (BPI) technology.
