The U.S. Navy is also pursuing a ballistic missile interception program. Specifically, the Navy’s Standard Missile, the SM-3 ballistic missile interceptor, is a 3-stage missile that carries an IR seeker to intercept its target. The SM-3 is part of the Navy’s Midcourse System (formerly known as Navy theater wide antimissile defense system). This ballistic missile defense is to be launched from the Aegis-type cruisers (see also Appendix F, Table F.4). The U.S. Navy’s ballistic missile defense system scored a successful intercept of an Aries ballistic missile target on January 25, 2002, using the three-stage Standard Missile SM-3 interceptor. The latest positive event for MDA came on June 13, 2002, when the sea-based midcourse system intercepted its target. The SM-3 interceptor was fired from the USS Lake Erie Aegis cruiser about 6 min after the Aries ballistic missile target launched from the Pacific Missile Range on Kauai, Hawaii. A few minutes later, the lightweight exoatmospheric projectile (Leap), SM-3’s upper stage, intercepted the target. Note that the Leap (also seen as LEAP) kill vehicle uses an IR sensor to intercept the target.

The November 21, 2003, test (designated FM-4) was also successful in intercepting an Aries target with an SM-3 interceptor launched from the USS Lake Erie. This test represented the third intercept for the sea-based initiative, The next test, FM-5, which took place in the spring of 2003 was also an ascent-phase engagament. The primary difference from FM-4 will be the planned upgrade to a multipulse divert and attitude control system (DACS) for the warhead. This gives the Leap upper stage more maneuvering capability to hit the target. The more capable DACS basically completes the core SM-3 missile. The next two tests, FM-6 and FM-7, focus on the Aegis weapon system. The FM-6 is slated for 2003, while the FM-7 test is expected to occur in 2004. In FM-8, the Pentagon wants to determine the system’s versatility. The final test, FM-9, has not been determined yet. Finally, the Navy plans to upgrade the radar of 15 Aegis ships in order to support missile defense engagements.
