$$x, y, z = \text { body (missile fixed axes) },\mathrm{X}, \mathrm{Y}, \mathrm{Z} = \text { Forces (air) },p, q, r = \text { angular velocities roll,pitch,yaw }),u, v, w = \text { velocity components about } x, y, z,\xi , \eta , \zeta = \text { fin angular deflection (in roll, pitch, and yaw) },L, M, N = \text { aerodynamic moments (in roll, pitch, and yaw) },P = \text { thrust (lbs) },P _ {k} = \text { air stream deviation force (roll displacement) },X _ {G} = \text { distance (i.e., aileron cg) },C _ {X}, C _ {Y}, C _ {Z} = \text { force coefficients about } X, Y, Z,C _ {L}, C _ {M}, C _ {N} = \text { aerodynamic coefficients },g _ {X}, g _ {Y}, g _ {Z} = \text { gravitational components },S = \text { reference area },d = \text { missile diameter },\rho = \text { air density }.$$

A remarkable variety of actuators and fin servomechanisms have been employed in the past. One type is a bistable-clutch actuator in a simple limit-cycling adaptive roll autopilot. Servomechanisms may be of the hydraulic, pneumatic, or electric type, depending on the maximum hinge moment of the control surface. Other missiles have used fin servos with rate commands, while still others have utilized force-balanced fin servos in an adaptive autopilot that is approximately compensated for changes in dynamic pressure. As an example, the pitch/yaw autopilot of Figure 3.36 utilizes positional fin servos with angle feedback. The fin servo is a critical part of the missile, and it limits the performance of the autopilot and indeed the performance of the entire guidance system. The detailed requirements for the fin servo are developed from various considerations in the guidance system, such as:

(a) The frequency response of the fin servos must be high enough so that adequate bandwidth can be achieved in the pitch autopilot for stabilizing an unstable bare airframe, so that the roll autopilot can be fast enough to suppress induced roll moments at high frequency.

(b) The no-load angular rate should be high enough so that saturation on radar noise does not appreciably reduce the average actuator gain for guidance signals.   
(c) The stall torque should appreciably exceed any possible hinge moment, particularly if it is decentering (i.e., with the fin $c p$ ahead of the hinge line).   
(d) The fin servo should be very stiff to load torques so that the performance of it and the autopilot will not be degraded by unwanted feedback from fin angle or angle of attack.
