An examination of typical values of the drag coefficient as a function of Mach number indicates that it is not possible to use one value of $\beta$ to cover the complete range of speeds that the missile will experience during a typical flyout. However, it is possible to approximate the variation of the coefficient of drag with speed by producing fits to three distinct regions of the drag curve. The first region is from low Mach number up to the drag rise Mach number (usually somewhere around Mach 0.8) for which the drag coefficient is reasonably constant $( \beta = 0 )$ . The second region is from the drag rise Mach number up to the Mach number where the maximum drag coefficient is obtained (usually somewhere around Mach 1.2). The third region is from the Mach number for maximum drag coefficient up to the maximum Mach number of the data (usually around Mach 5.0). A subroutine must be written that calculates the value of $\beta$ for each of these three regions to provide the best fit to the tabular drag data.

The launch envelope imposes many constraints on the times when the missile launches are possible. The constraints vary according to the type of missile and which track mode (i.e., normal radar, track-on-jam, etc.) is being employed. During normal radar track, a predicted impact point is calculated using the average missile velocity and the current target position and velocity. Figure 5.36 depicts the geometry used to calculate the impact point.

Let X be the distance ahead of the target to the impact point, $V _ { M }$ the average missile velocity, and $R _ { L O S }$ the range from the airborne interceptor (AI) to the target. We can write an expression for X based on the law of cosines:

$$X = R _ {L O S} \{[ - \cos \theta \pm (\cos^ {2} \theta + (\rho^ {2} - 1)) ^ {1 / 2} ] / (\rho^ {2} - 1) \}, \tag {5.91}$$
