New seeker technology is evolving with a new generation of advanced missile systems. For example, the AIM-9X Sidewinder II design features a high-resolution rotate-to-view seeker. In this design, the outer seeker casing, slightly larger in diameter than the missile body, rotates 360◦ to provide a clear viewing path for the seeker, which is mounted on a two-axis gimbal fixed to the body. The seeker head can be slaved to a helmet-mounted sight, with the seeker window rotating to view what the pilot is looking at. It has an off-boresight capability of more than 90◦.

We conclude this section by noting that a new generation of radar is the AESA (active electronically scanned arrays). This radar allows tracking of fast, stealthy, cruise-missile-size flying targets at hundreds of miles. The AESA will be used to upgrade the Joint-STARS airborne ground-surveillance radar. An AESA radar uses hundreds or even thousands of small transmitter–receiver (T/R) elements (or modules) that allow it to conduct widely diversified tasks simultaneously, including surveillance, communications, and jamming. These T/R elements are used to update a radar’s computer several times a second, so that target data are much more accurate. For example, each array in the AESA radar is made up of about 1,000 transmitter–receiver elements on the F/A-22 Raptor and several hundred in the JSF. The number of elements dictates the power output and range of the radar, which equates to about 125 miles on the F/A-22 and 90 miles on the JSF. Other aircraft that will use the AESA technology are the F/A-18E/F and F-15C interceptors. Some of the new combinedtechnology radars may first be used operationally in the Global Hawk UAV. So far, Global Hawk’s mission has been that of supplying E/O and IR digital photos and SAR/GMTI data of vehicles (see also Appendix F). However, HAWK’s new payload will not be a fully developed new-technology radar system, but rather an existing air-to-air radar scaled down with AESA technology. In some applications the ASARS-2 (Advanced Synthetic Aperture Radar System) is used to track and observe ground targets. ASARS-2 offers a resolution of 1 ft over a 1 sq mile FOV from a range of more than 108 nm (200 km) and an altitude of more than 65,000 ft when observing ground targets.

Recently, the Navy tested a combination millimeter-wave radar/RF-homing seeker for a follow-on to the current HARM radar-killing missile called the Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile. In addition, the USAF is investigating the possibility of developing a next-generation HARM-like missile that fits in the F/A-22’s weapons bays.
