# 5.6.3 Release Point Computation for Unguided Bombs

In Section 5.5.2 aircraft delivery modes were discussed using radar and electrooptical sensors. In this section we will discuss briefly radar-aided and EO-aided bombing. The most stringent IRS (inertial reference system) requirements occur with unguided weapons. Therefore, the approach is to establish unguided weapon error budgets in which velocity errors are commensurate with other system errors. Based upon these budgets, the most stringent IRS velocity requirement is 0.5 ft/sec during bomb delivery.

Radar-Aided Bombing: An error budget is dependent upon flight conditions at the time of launch. For example, a fighter aircraft with automatic bomb delivery mode using SAR (synthetic aperture radar) target designation can have as many as 14 error budget sources (e.g., slant range, azimuth angle, altitude, IRS ground speed, IRS vertical velocity, true airspeed, time delay, ejection velocity, pilot steering, heading-induced sideslip, bomb dispersion, air-to-ground radar elevation position, air-to-ground slant range, and ballistic fit computation) including both error magnitudes and their contribution to weapon CEP. In this mode, the IRS velocity error contributes to the CEP from time of target designation to bomb release to bomb impact. The horizontal velocity error is 0.5 ft/sec in this budget, which results in an along-track error contribution of more than 30 ft (1 σ ). Doubling the velocity error would make this the largest term in the error budget, but eliminating it would not reduce the CEP significantly. Therefore, 0.5 ft/sec is a reasonable choice for IRS velocity accuracy.
