# 2.4 Lagrange’s Equations for Rotating Coordinate Systems

The missiles considered thus far were assumed to obey the laws of rigid bodies. However, in analyzing the dynamics of flexible missiles, such as intermediate-range ballistic missiles or intercontinental ballistic missiles, it is convenient to use a set of coordinates moving with the missile. In this case, the missile can be considered as a system of particles whose position relative to the moving axes can be defined by generalized coordinates $q _ { i }$ . Specifically, we will consider the motion of a holonomic∗ system with n degrees of freedom. Let $( q _ { 1 } , q _ { 2 } , \ldots , q _ { n } )$ be the coordinates that specify the configuration of the system at time t. Furthermore, we will consider a mechanical system of n particles whose coordinates are $( x _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , z _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } , y _ { 2 } , z _ { 2 } , . . . , x _ { n } , y _ { n } , z _ { n } )$ · The motion of the system is known when the value of every coordinate is known as a function of time. Suppose now that the system moves from a certain configuration given by $( x _ { 1 } ^ { \prime } , \ldots , z _ { n } ^ { \prime } )$ at time $t _ { 1 }$ to another configuration given by $( x _ { 1 } ^ { \prime \prime } , y _ { 1 } ^ { \prime \prime } , \ldots , z _ { n } ^ { \prime \prime } )$ at time $t _ { 2 }$ . During all of the motion between these two configurations, the Newtonian equations of motion will be followed, and the acceleration of each particle will be given by the total force acting on it. Moreover, this motion can be described by expressing each coordinate as a function of time.

There are then 3n dependent variables depending on the one independent variable t. These functions can be written in the form

$$x _ {1} = x _ {1} (t), y _ {1} = y _ {1} (t), \dots , z _ {n} = z _ {n} (t). \tag {2.55}$$

In deriving the equations of motion, it is common practice to start the derivation using the concepts of kinetic and potential energies of the system using Lagrange’s equation. As will be noted, however, these equations differ from the usual Lagrange equations for fixed coordinates. Now consider some other way in which the system might have moved from the initial configuration to the final configuration in the same amount of time, $t _ { 2 } - t _ { 1 }$ . This new motion is to be one that satisfies the geometric conditions, or the constraints of the problem. If this new motion is just slightly different from the original motion, the coordinates, as functions of time, can be written as follows:
