Thermal Noise: Thermal noise appears as random signals within the system bandpass. Thermal noise is usually viewed as white Gaussian noise, that is, noise with a power density equal across all frequencies and with an instantaneous value given by a Gaussian probability density function. The signal energy the radar tries to track is contained within the pulse repetition interval (PRI) lines within the system bandpass. Thermal noise contained within the bandpass is also passed through the signal processing elements and competes with the true signal. Since the thermal noise voltage is a random process, it tends to drive the radar off the true target return. The direction of this thermal-noise-induced track error changes continuously with time, since the noise instantaneous value is continuously changing. If the target return is much larger than the thermal noise return (e.g., if the signal lines within the bandpass are much larger than the noise level), then the thermal noise will have a relatively small impact, and system tracking will not be significantly disturbed. However, if the target return is small or if the noise level is large, then the energy contained in the noise can swamp the energy return of the target, and the system will drift far off the true target position.

The total measurement noise variance is the sum of the variances of the individual uncorrelated noise components

$$\sigma_ {t} ^ {2} = \sigma_ {f} ^ {2} + \sigma_ {c} ^ {2} + \sigma_ {s} ^ {2} + \sigma_ {t h} ^ {2}, \tag {3.90}$$

where $\sigma _ { t h } ^ { 2 }$ is the thermal noise variance.

Other typical error sources of a guidance system are multipath and clutter effects. Multipath and clutter occur naturally in the low-angle track situation, and each is capable of degrading radar-tracking performance. More specifically, multipath and clutter are types of noise signals caused by reflections from terrain surface features. Multipath and clutter effects will tend to degrade radar performance is, for example, tracking low-altitude targets. Multipath is a result of multiple paths the radar signal makes from the radar site to the target and return. Both the specular multipath, which is that governed by Snell’s law–type reflections from a flat surface, and diffuse multipath (or random scatter from rough surfaces) reflection components are considered in radar tracking error analysis. The apparent range caused by multipath effects is
