Unlike the ground-based midcourse intercept system (formerly known as the national missile defense (NMD) project), which acts as a terminal defense system and has to discriminate between real warheads and decoys, the SBL is intended to destroy an ICBM before it can deploy its warhead or decoys. SBL satellites will be equipped with multiple sensors, that is, passive missile detection sensors to spot launching missiles and an active laser-radar (or ladar) to track the missile during its boost phase. A megawatt laser will then be used to destroy the missile.

At this point, an in-orbit Air Force/Ballistic Missile Defense Organization (BMDO) SBL project is focused on an integrated flight experiment (IFX) planned for around the year 2012, with a major ground test of the flight-ready hardware that is supposed to go into space starting about five years earlier (note that in January 2002 the BMDO was elevated to agency status and redesignated as the Missile Defense Agency (MDA)). However, the IFX is serving only as a technology demonstrator, not a limited operational system. The IFX intercept attempt will be conducted against a modified Minuteman III ICBM fitted with a liquid third stage. This should be representative of ICBM threats. Moreover, the purpose of the IFX is to demonstrate the highpower laser source with regard to acquisition, tracking, and pointing. An operational system would not be ready until 2018–2020. The range requirement for the experiment, while not yet detailed, will be far more than 100 nm (185.3 km). An operational system would have to have much greater capability. A baseline requirements review for IFX that assigned notional weight goals for different parts of the satellite design was recently completed. In order to fit into the constraints of a heavylift evolved expendable launch vehicle (EELV), the total spacecraft is being limited to 53 ft (16.15 m) in height and 43,400 lb (19,686.2 kg). By far the largest element will be the laser payload, which has been allotted 25,265 lb (11,460.2 kg). The beam control is being designed to 5,681 lb (2,576.9 kg), while the beam director, the mirror through which the laser will be pointed, is assigned 3,420 lb (1,551.3 kg). The mirror will measure 2.8 meters (9.19 ft) in diameter, although it would have to be 8–10 meters (26.25–32.81 ft) in an operational version.
