Two common types of missiles that pose a threat to aircraft are the air-to-air (AA), or air-intercept, missile (AIM), and the surface-to-air missile (SAM) mentioned earlier. The AA and SAM missiles belong to the tactical and defense missile class, and are launched from interceptor fighter aircraft, employing various guidance techniques. Surface-to-air missiles can be launched from land- or sea-based platforms. They too have varying guidance and propulsion capabilities that influence their launch envelopes relative to the target. Furthermore, these missiles employ sophisticated electronic countermeasure (ECM) schemes to enhance their effectiveness. It should be pointed out that since weight is not much of a problem, these missiles are often larger than their air-to-air counterparts, and they can have larger warheads and longer ranges.

In attempting to intercept a moving target with a missile, a desired trajectory will be needed in which the missile velocity leads the line of sight (LOS) by the proper angle so that for a constant-velocity target the missile flies a straight-line path to collision. In homing systems, for example, the target tracker is in the missile, and in such a case it is the relative movement of target and missile that is relevant. The two-dimensional end-game geometry of an ideal collision course will be discussed later in this book. Typically, an aerodynamic missile is controlled by an autopilot, which receives lateral acceleration commands from the guidance system and causes aerodynamic surfaces to move so as to attain these commanded accelerations. Since in general, there are two lateral missile coordinate axes, the general three-dimensional attack geometry can be resolved into these two directions.
