In proportional navigation, the rate of rotation of the line-of-sight angle is measured with respect to fixed space coordinates by an onboard seeker, and a lateral (or normal) acceleration of the missile is commanded proportional to that line-of-sight rate. The lateral acceleration is desired to be normal to the LOS. For aerodynamically maneuvered vehicles, this acceleration occurs normal to the instantaneous velocity vector of the interceptor missile. This difference normally has little practical significance for reasonable values of lead angle (i.e., as defined earlier, the angle between the velocity vector and the line of sight). However, it should be noted at the outset that from a practical point of view, even though proportional navigation performs reasonably well in a wide range of engagement conditions, its performance degrades sharply in the presence of rapidly maneuvering targets and large off-boresight angle launches. Moreover, the neglected aerodynamic drag affects the missile maneuverability and velocity, resulting in a loss of performance at higher altitudes and in the case of retreating targets. Maneuvering targets are commonly treated and modeled based on optimal control theory and differential game-theoretic approaches. Proportional navigation and its variants have been treated extensively in the literature. In particular, the following variations should be mentioned:

Pure Proportional Navigation (PPN): The commanded acceleration is applied in the direction normal to the pursuer’s velocity, and its magnitude is proportional to the angular rate of the LOS between pursuer and its target. For stationary targets, solutions are available in closed form in terms of range-to-go and for general values of N , while explicit solutions as a function of time are available only for N = 2. By explicit solutions we mean trajectory-dependent parameters obtained as explicit expressions from analytical treatment and that are more readily computable than numerical methods. For nonmaneuvering targets, partial exact solutions exist only for the specific case N = 1 (this corresponds to the pure/deviated pursuit case).
