Since the early 1970s technology has advanced drastically. That is, using optimal control and estimation theory, one could perform more calculations, more often, at less cost, and in a smaller volume than anyone would have imagined just a few years ago. Bryson and Ho [3] used optimal control theory to show that proportional navigation (PN) is the optimal control law that minimizes the terminal miss distance. In their derivation, many assumptions were made both implicitly in the problem formulation and explicitly in the derivation. These assumptions were necessary in order for the solution to result in proportional navigation. The optimality of proportional navigation is therefore dependent on the deviation from the real-world implementation, application of the guidance law from the model and assumptions used in deriving PN, and the sensitivity of the guidance law performance to those deviations. In order to explicitly state all the assumptions involved in claiming that PN is the optimal control law that minimizes the terminal miss distance, an optimal feedback guidance law will be derived using linear quadratic theory. Once the guidance law is derived, several further assumptions will be made in order to arrive at the optimality of the proportional navigation guidance law. The form and performance of optimal guidance law, say, for air-to-air missiles, are dependent on a performance index, control constraints, terminal constraints, assumptions on the availability of target acceleration information, and system dynamics used in the derivation of the guidance law. The aim of any missile guidance system design is to minimize the terminal miss distance. An optimal guidance law that minimizes terminal miss distance will be derived using optimal control theory. Once derived, it is shown that by making several simplifying assumptions the optimal guidance law reduces to proportional navigation. It is determined by realistic simulation and analysis that these simplifying assumptions substantially reduce the performance capability of short-range air-to-air missiles employing proportional navigation.

Generally speaking, a missile’s guidance law is thought of as two cascaded functions: (1) state estimation (also known as Kalman filtering or optimal filtering), and (2) control. The function of the former is to obtain estimates of those variables needed to mechanize the control law. The latter prescribes the acceleration command according to a policy that will direct the missile trajectory to intercept the target.
