Particularly, ultra-wide-band RF weapons try to emulate the effects of a nuclear blast.
It should be pointed out that weapons of this type are far from being fielded.
One problem, in particular, is packaging the systems, because these devices are large and operationally not suitable.

In Section 4.1 we discussed the various techniques used in guided missile homing and the vulnerability of these missiles to jamming. In particular, the guided missiles (AAM, SAM, etc.) discussed in this chapter are vulnerable to a new laser-based infrared countermeasures (IRCM) system, designed to protect large aircraft (e.g., C-17 Globemaster) from heat-seeking missiles. The system has successfully used a laser beam to scan the inner workings (e.g., guidance system) and outer shape of an attacking weapon, precisely identify it, and finally provide the correct jamming signal to lead it off course. As a result, laser technology, in particular the rapidly advance of directed-energy weapons (DEW) mentioned earlier in this section, could supplant the traditional air-to-air and antiaircraft missiles. Specifically, the system will use a multiband laser to identify an approaching weapon by the sensor it carries and other characteristics. A closed-loop infrared countermeasures (CLIRCM) capability enables the system to assess the characteristics of the incoming missile and then return a complex synchronized jam code that causes the missile to make a high-g turn away from the aircraft (to chase a cluster of false targets), break lock, and miss by a great distance. The system phases the generation of false targets so that the incoming missile tracks away in one direction. Older open-loop, laser-based self-defense systems degrade the guidance system by producing random false targets that make the missile wobble in flight, but not necessarily break lock on the target.
