# 5.3 Weapon Delivery Requirements

The need for precision tactical weapon delivery systems providing day/night allweather, low- and high-altitude capability against targets at ranges to 300 nm can be met by self-contained fail-safe and fault-tolerant guidance aids and advanced kinematic bombing subsystems. To support these, continued development and use of GPS, time-of-arrival (TOA) measurement, distance measuring equipment (DME), downlooking infrared (DLIR), forward-looking infrared (FLIR), moving target indication (MTI) radar, digital land mass data, and SAR is required. Research directed toward increasing the bandwidth, quantum efficiency, antijam tolerance, and low-power signal handling ability of these devices can provide the desired capability.

Development of techniques for accurate position, velocity, attitude, and time fixing; threat and obstacle detection; low-aircraft observable terrain following and terrain avoidance (T F /T A); and optimum use of land-mass multisensor data for route optimization, control of aircraft observables,∗ and control of radar probability of intercept are important to achieve survivability through covertness and stealth in severe defensive threat environments. Of the stealthy technologies, bistatic synthetic aperture radar and its associated need for radio frequency (RF) signal coherency by maintaining timing and phase synchronization between the illuminator and receiver frequency reference is one of the most technically challenging requirements for future navigation, motion compensation, and timing systems. This problem is greatly compounded by severe operational environments, which will include severe jamming and air defenses, terrain masking, weather and atmospheric turbulence, and the penetrator aircraft employment of high-g, minimum exposure, pop-up maneuvers to improve survivability. Strategic weapon delivery systems operating at significantly longer ranges need autonomous navigation systems, which can respond automatically to unplanned mission events. Development of sensors and data processors for accurate position fixing, target damage assessment/retargeting, threat and obstacle detection, and route optimization are important for vehicle survivability in severe defensive threat environments.
