An advanced threat infrared countermeasures (ATIRCM) system has been developed for U.S. Army helicopters. In addition, a common missile warning system that is part of ATIRCM will serve as a stand-alone system without the jammer in many Air Force and Navy fighters and transports. ATIRCM will use a laser system mounted in a turret to direct a beam of jamming energy into the eye of the seeker of an incoming IR missile. The object is to provide deceptive signals or to overload the seeker with excessive radiation. The directed-energy approach is needed to provide enough intensity to defeat the new types of seekers that will key on the image of an aircraft rather than just a hot spot. Current omnidirectional CM systems would require too much aircraft electrical power to radiate at that required intensity. (Note that missiles with imaging IR seekers are already in operational service). ATIRCM is designed to work with a variety of other systems such as advanced-threat radar jammers. It also ties together missile warning, jamming, and CM dispensing functions. A common missile warning system also is being designed for Block 50 $F { - } I 6 \mathrm { s }$ along with the F-15E and C and the $A \ – I O$ . In addition, the MH-53J special operations helicopter and the CV-22 are candidates to receive the full system including missile warning and jamming. The common warning system will be compatible for use in Navy fighters including the F/A-18C, D, and $E / F$ as well as the F-14A, B, and D. An Air

Force version of the ATIRCM is undergoing testing. Known as the LAIRCM (Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasure), this laser-based CM system is designed to protect large aircraft such as the C-17A Globemaster III and the C-130s from man-portable, heat-seeking∗ missiles like the Stinger (FIM-92). The LAIRCM system, designed by Northrop-Grumman, underwent live-missile-fire testing. Testing of the system was completed successfully on July 3, 2002, putting the program on track to deliver the first laser-protected transport to Air Mobility Command (AMC) by the year 2004. Because of its importance, we will now go into some more detail of the LAIRCM system.
