Finally, we note that in the Kalman filtering algorithm given above, it is necessary to invert a matrix at every instant to obtain the Kalman gain matrix K(k) (i.e., before prediction–correction can be carried out in the main process (4.117)–(4.119)). The application of linear, time-varying filter theory has resulted in this new method for designing optimal homing-missile guidance systems, which, unlike the classical techniques, helps in achieving the minimum rms miss distance that is theoretically attainable. However, before this approach is applied to practical guidance systems, a considerable amount of work must be done by the missile designer. Some of the areas that must be addressed are as follows:

1. Investigation of the tendency of the guidance system to demand more lateral acceleration than the missile is capable of providing. Since the missile is constantly trying to reduce the distance (i.e., error) between itself and the target, it may be desirable to allow the guidance system to drive the missile acceleration to its maximum possible magnitude as opposed to imposing an artificial mathematical constraint on the mean-square value of acceleration.   
2. Development of general methods for the determination of the dynamic system (i.e., differential equation) that generates a signal having a specified autocorrelation function from a white noise input. This is of importance in the determination of the F, G, and Q matrices.   
3. Study of the instrumentation requirements for this type of guidance system. Since the time-varying multiplier gains are instantaneous functions of the components of the P (t)-matrix and the range $r ( t ) \ (                    \mathrm { i . e . , } r ( t ) = v _ { c } ( T - t ) )$ , they may be determined in-flight by solving the variance equations by the onboard computer. The range along the $L O S$ between target and missile, $r ( t )$ , must then be fed into the missile’s computer in order to compute $P ( t )$ . When this is done, it is not necessary to make estimates of the total time of flight, since T does not enter into computation of multiplier gains. A satisfactory performance may be obtained with a predetermined program of multiplier gains stored in the missile prior to launching.
