Specifically, explicit guidance requires determination of a velocity vector at a given initial point in a simple central gravity field such that free fall to a given second point (e.g., the target) occurs in a specified interval of time. The time of flight constraint is necessitated by motion of the target. Many solutions to this problem exist. For example, there is a family of correlated velocity vectors, each of which can cause a vehicle at the initial point (e.g., engine burnout) to follow a corresponding correlated orbit through the given subsequent point. The additional constraint of time of flight is satisfied by only one of this family of velocities, or equivalently, by only one correlated orbit. The explicit guidance equations (see Sections 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4) include an accurate representation of the vehicle’s environment commensurate with the mission requirements. Some of the more practical non-Keplerian effects one must examine to determine accurate ballistic missile trajectories are:

1. atmospheric forces,   
2. the latitude and longitude-dependent terms necessary to describe the Earth’s gravitational field,   
3. local gravitational anomalies,   
4. the Sun’s and Moon’s gravitational fields.

The only inputs required by the guidance equations are latitude, longitude, and altitude of the launch and target points and a time of flight consistent with the vehicle’s propulsion capabilities. Furthermore, the guidance equations permit computation of the required quantities for the autopilot, which in turn steers the vehicle to the proper burnout conditions. Once the guidance inputs have been specified, the launch azimuth may be implemented, and no other delay is required for proper launching of the vehicle. This technique is particularly suitable for systems requiring maximum flexibility, since no prelaunch (or at least a minimum) computation or targeting is required. (Note that the time necessary to compute the launch azimuth is negligible.) In addition, the requirement of a nominal trajectory may be eliminated as a result of the complete generality and self-containment of the explicit guidance equations, but with an increase in the complexity of the mechanization of the required equations.
