<table><tr><td>Command</td><td>Beam Rider</td><td>Homing Semiactive</td><td>Homing Passive</td></tr><tr><td>Spartan</td><td>Seaslug</td><td>Sea sparrow</td><td>Chaparral</td></tr><tr><td>Sprint</td><td>RBS 70</td><td>Standard, MR</td><td>Redeye</td></tr><tr><td>Crotale</td><td>Talos (+SAH)</td><td>Standard, ER</td><td>Stinger</td></tr><tr><td>Rapier (CLOS)</td><td>Terier (+SAH)</td><td>Tartar</td><td>Redtop</td></tr><tr><td>Seawolf (CLOS)</td><td></td><td>Maserca</td><td>Tan-sam</td></tr><tr><td>Blowpipe (CLOS)</td><td></td><td>Bloodhound</td><td>SA-7</td></tr><tr><td>Indigo</td><td></td><td>Aspide</td><td>SA-9</td></tr><tr><td>Roland (CLOS)</td><td></td><td>Seadart</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Patriot (+SAH)</td><td></td><td>SA-6</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>SA-8</td><td></td><td>Thunderbird</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Hawk</td><td></td></tr></table>

∗Originally published in The Fundamentals of Aircraft Combat Survivability Analysis and Design, R.E. Ball, AIAA Education Series, copyright © 1985. Reprinted with permission.

A final comment on pursuit guidance is in order. For pursuit against a nonmaneuvering target, the collision course exhibits a constant bearing property, whereby the LOS maintains a fixed direction in space; that is, the LOS moves parallel to itself in space during the engagement. Consequently, the pursuer will appear to be coming in straight at the target, though pointed off by the lead angle. If a constantbearing guidance law is adopted against a maneuvering target, the resulting pursuer trajectory no longer remains a straight line; however, it still has the desirable property that the demanded pursuer lateral acceleration is at most equal to that of the target. From a theoretical point of view, a constant-bearing guidance law would be a desirable one against both maneuvering and nonmaneuvering targets. However, a constant-bearing law is difficult to implement, especially for the general case of maneuvering targets, since it requires the pursuer to be able to detect the component of target motion perpendicular to the LOS, and to adjust its own motion instantaneously, in such a way that its velocity component perpendicular to the LOS equals that of the target.

Tables 4.3 and 4.4 present a sample of typical guidance systems used by some of the past and current missiles (see also Appendix F) [14]:
