USAF officials hope that both directed-energy projects will do more for them than just missile defense work. ABL is being envisioned for potential use in destroying cruise missiles, aircraft, or even surface-to-surface missiles. SBL, for instance, is seen as potentially having a space-to-ground application, although that would require a laser using an atmosphere-penetrating wavelength that currently is not being pursued. SBL also may also be able to destroy air-breathing targets or satellites.

We will now discuss in some detail the airborne laser (ABL). The ABL is a highly modified Boeing 747-400F freighter. Rollout at the Boeing Wichita, Kansas, facility, where the aircraft is being reconfigured and the battle management system installed, was on November 10, 2001. The ABL made its maiden flight for airworthiness on July 18, 2002, circling over western Kansas for one hour and twenty-two minutes before returning to its takeoff location at McConnell AFB, Kansas, taking the first steps in becoming the world’s first directed-energy (DE) combat aircraft. This successful flight is a milestone in the history of ABL, whose ultimate goal is that of shooting down a ballistic missile with a beam of ultrapowerful light by the end of 2004. ABL is scheduled to take its place as a principal member of the boost-phase segment of the Missile Defense Agency’s (MDA) layered system, designed to protect the country and U.S. troops against enemy ballistic missiles. ABL’s task is to destroy the justlaunched ICBMs by focusing its high-energy laser beam on the pressurized fuel tank, causing it to rupture and explode, in effect causing the missile to kill itself. ABL, now under the MDA’s management, is being developed, as stated earlier, by a team composed of the Boeing Co., TRW, and Lockheed Martin. Boeing supplied the aircraft and the sophisticated software system that will be the brains of the weapon system. Moreover, Boeing will develop the battle management and control system, integrating the weapon system and supplying the flying platform (i.e., the 747-400F airplane). TRW will built the megawatt-class lasers that constitute the system’s kill mechanism and ground support, while Lockheed Martin built the complicated maze of mirrors and lenses used to guide the lasers to the target and the turret that will house the system’s 1.5-meter telescope. A 1.8-meter in diameter turret window for the laser in the nose of the aircraft will offer 120◦ pointing capability. Also, Lockheed Martin is developing the beam-control/fire-control system. Once testing has been completed, the ABL will be turned over to the Air Force. For ABL, the July 18 maiden flight represents the most visible program evolution since it formally began in November 1996.
