# 5.3.1 Tactics and Maneuvers

The bombing problem is dynamic, constantly changing as the aircraft moves through space, causing both ballistic and sighting solutions to vary from moment to moment. Velocity and acceleration, the active ingredients in this dynamic process, must be measured and controlled to obtain a simultaneous matching solution at the time of weapon release. In any tactical situation, the effects of tactical maneuvering on delivery accuracy must be taken into account. Defining the correct release point is a threedimensional problem. Measurement and/or calculation of release parameters, as well as target identification and accuracy of target designation/aiming index placement, may be affected significantly by the flight path of the aircraft approaching the target. For example, a low-altitude, high subsonic $T F / T A ^ { 2 } / O A$ dash of the close air support and battlefield interdiction requires efficient, highly maneuverable flight.

At this point, a more detailed account of tactics and maneuvers will be given. These are as follows:

Approach and Entry Tactics. The approach and entry into a dive delivery are usually dictated by (a) enemy defenses, (b) weather conditions, and (c) aircraft maneuvering abilities. Relatively low levels of enemy defenses and good visibility will permit medium- to high-altitude approaches with controlled roll-in point/attack axis selection and flight spacing. Multiple passes by each delivery aircraft may be possible, with adjustments in aiming to account for observed errors and target damage. The capability of an aircraft to maneuver over a target varies with aircraft type. A pilot facing an identical target and defenses, with other factors equal, will experience a higher stress/workload (see Section 5.2.1) level in a less-capable aircraft. Enemy defenses may necessitate a low-altitude approach to the target area with a popup to dive maneuver. Such maneuvers not only increase delivery errors due to increased pilot/aircrew workload/stress, but also increase the possibility of target misidentification and gross delivery errors. Combinations of weather and enemy defenses may require a low-altitude approach with a shallow dive entry from low altitude. Finally, terrain masking can be used as an aid in hiding from target defenses, but this can increase target acquisition problems.
