Onboard missile receivers generally include some type of automatic gain control, which attempts to keep the receiver output signal power nearly constant. As a result, the effective noise level will change with received signal power relative to some reference level. A meaningful comparison of homing guidance systems for tactical missiles requires realistic models for the missile and the target engagement geometry, in order to accurately evaluate the terminal miss distance. This model should include the system dynamics and system nonlinearities, which influence the missile’s performance. By virtue of the use of onboard data gathering, the homing guidance system provides continually improving quality-of-target information almost up to the intercept point. This permits the achievement of an accuracy that is unmatched by any other form of missile guidance. The modern short-range air-to-air missile engagement is the most demanding tactical weapon scenario from the viewpoint of the guidance law, due to a number of factors. These factors include short engagement times (nominally 2–3 seconds) and rapid, drastic changes in the kinematics of the scenario. Homing missiles of all three types are used because there are many variables in the military requirements. Among these are speed, altitude, and expected maneuvers of the target; the number and type(s) of targets that must be engaged and/or destroyed in rapid succession; the area to be defended (which influences the possible courses of the target); the permissible complexity of the system; and the permissible cost of the missiles.
