The subsystems listed above include provisions for the low-altitude navigational and targeting infrared for night (LANTIRN) targeting and navigation pods; the pods are considered part of the avionics system. Both visual and blind all-weather, air-to-ground weapon delivery modes are available for conventional unguided and guided weapons. With the LANTIRN navigation pod, a fighter aircraft can penetrate at low altitude in all-weather conditions by the use of terrain following/terrain avoidance (TF/TA) radar and the navigation pod FLIR video on a wide-angle HUD (see also Section 5.12.2).

In April 2002 the Air Force began testing an advanced targeting pod for the F-16 Sniper program. The Sniper XR targeting pod is a multipurpose targeting and navigation system that provides tactical aircraft with 24-hour precision strike capability against land- and sea-based targets. The pod is a self-contained sensor and laser designator (see also Section 5.5.2 on laser systems) that allows improved target detection and recognition. Among the pod’s capabilities are an IR camera for thermal imaging and an additional camera that adjusts for daylight and low thermal contrast conditions. Using the Sniper XR, pilots can identify tactical targets at greatly improved standoff ranges compared to current systems. The Sniper pod also has an IR pointer compatible with night-vision goggles. Initially, the pods will be installed on the F-16CJ aircraft and some Air National Guard F-16s. Other strike aircraft, such as the F-15E Strike Eagle, may also take part in testing.
