# 4.4 Derivation of the Fundamental Guidance Equations

In order to guide itself to a successful target intercept, the missile must obtain information about the target. Both prelaunch and postlaunch information must be gathered. Before a missile is launched, that is, during the prelaunch phase, the missile needs to know where to go. It knows that it is supposed to go to the target, but it must be told where the target is. The missile is told where the target is by electrical signals entering through the umbilical from the launcher. These signals are head aim (to point the missile head at the target), English bias (to point the missile to the intercept point), and an estimate of true target Doppler on the simulated Doppler line. The missile then flies according to the proportional navigation guidance law; that is, it senses a change in the line-of-sight angle between the missile velocity vector and the target. In addition, the missile is given certain conditioning signals, which let the missile adjust for variations. These conditioning signals are the autopilot commands to adjust autopilot responses, and auxiliary Doppler positioning signals. Furthermore, though the missile is designed to guide to impact, an actual impact may not occur, and the missile may miss the target by some finite distance. Specific circuits in the missile give an indication of closest missile approach to the target. These circuits then cause the warhead to be triggered so as to explode as close to the target as possible. In addition, other circuits in the missile are designed to provide indications of a total miss. All of this logic and information is built into the missile, so that the missile knows what to do before it is launched.
