There are several models used to evaluate and/or assess the performance of end game. One of these models is the enhanced surface-to-air missile simulation (ESAMS). The ESAMS model is used to simulate the interaction between a single airborne target and a specified SAM fired from a designated location. The model simulates sensor lock-on and tracking, missile aerodynamics, propulsion, guidance, and control. More specifically, ESAMS computes the probability of kill, miss distance, range of intercept, terminal approach angles, and missile time of flight for a specified SAM system against a single airborne target. The postlaunch flyout in ESAMS is modeled in 5-DOF, with boost/sustain/glide phases simulated if the threat has such capability. ESAMS inputs include missile and radar type, target/aircraft signature, target vulnerability, target flight path, multipath/clutter data, and terrain.

It was mentioned earlier that blast fragmentation warheads could maximize the effect on a large area. However, one must also consider mission-responsive ordnance. Mission-responsive ordnance is an important step in using advanced precision to avoid collateral damage. It can be described as follows:

Mission-Responsive Ordnance: Mission-responsive ordnance refers to weapons that change their blast and fragmentation pattern depending on the target. Computercontrolled microminituarized detonators integrated into the explosive material can control its timing, magnitude, shape, and lethal area. The mission-responsive ordnance concept makes a single relatively small warhead capable of attacking a very wide range of targets, such as a fuse box in an office building, a tank on a city street, or an entire section of a building. The flexibility of mission-responsive ordnance allows explosives to be tailored for constrained environments and may mean fewer weapons in inventory.

Some other types of warheads are the particle beam and nuclear warheads.

Particle Beam: The warhead descriptors for the particle beam weapon are the particle type (i.e., charge and mass) and the particle velocity (i.e., potential). These two parameters define the kinetic energy, and thus the ionizing ability of the particles. A third important factor is the particle density in the beam. Therefore, accelerated particles are merely a directed-energy form of radiation.

Table 4.6. Nuclear Warheads
