A project for developing missiles in the U.S.A. during World War II was started in 1941. In that year the Army Air Corps asked the National Defense Research Committee to undertake a project for the development of a vertical, controllable bomb. The committee initiated a glide-bomb program, which resulted in standardization of a preset glide bomb attached to a 2,000 lb (907.2 kg) demolition bomb. The Azon, a vertical bomb controlled in azimuth only, went on the production line in 1943. Project Razon, a bomb controlled in both azimuth and range, was started in 1942. By 1944, these glide bombs used remote television control. The Navy had a number of guided missile projects under development by the end of World War II. The Loon, a modification of the V-1, was to be used from ship to shore and to test guided-missile components. Another Navy missile, known as Gorgon IIC, used a ramjet engine with radar tracking and radio control.

At the close of World War II the Americans obtained sufficient components to assemble two to three hundred V-2s from the underground factory, the Mittelwerk, near Nordhausen, Germany. The purpose of this was to use these V-2s as upper-atmosphere research vehicles carrying scientific experiments from JPL (Jet Propulsion Laboratory), Johns Hopkins, and other organizations.

In essence, the ballistic missile program in this country culminated with the development of the Atlas ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missile) (see Appendix F, Table F-1). In October 1953, and under a study contract from the U.S. Air Force, the Ramo-Woolridge Corporation (later Thomson-Ramo-Woolridge, or TRW) began work on a new ICBM. Within a year the program passed from top Air Force priority to top national priority. The first successful flight of a Series A Atlas ICBM took place on December 17, 1957, four months after the Soviet Union had announced that it had an ICBM. By the mid-1959, more than eighty thousand engineers and technicians had participated in this program.

Strictly speaking, missiles can be divided into two categories: (1) guided missiles (also called guided munitions), or tactical missiles, and (2) unguided missiles, or strategic missiles. Guided and unguided missiles can be defined as follows:
