As stated above, homing guidance may be of the active, semiactive, or passive type. Active guidance missiles are able to guide themselves independently after launch to the target. These missiles are of the so-called launch-and-leave class. For instance, air superiority fighters such as the F/A-22 Raptor that are designed with low-observable, advanced avionics and supercruise technologies are being developed to counter lethal threats posed by advanced surface-to-air missile systems (e.g., the U.S. HAWK MIM-23, Patriot MIM-104, Patriot Advanced Capability PAC-3, and the Russian SA-10 and SA-12 SAMs) and next-generation fighters equipped with launchand-leave missiles. Therefore, an active guided missile carries the radiation source on board the missile. The radiation from the interceptor missile is radiated, strikes the target, and is reflected back to the missile. Thus, the missile guides itself on this reflected radiation. Consequently, a missile using active guidance will, as a rule, be heavier than semiactive or passive missiles.

A semiactive missile uses a combination of active and passive guidance. A source of radiation is part of the system, but is not carried in the missile; that is, it is dependent on off-board equipment for guidance commands. More specifically, in semiactive missiles the source of radiation, which is usually at the launch point, radiates energy to the target, whereby the energy is reflected back to the missile. As a result, the missile senses the reflected radiation and homes on it. A passive missile utilizes radiation originated by the target, or by some other source not part of the overall weapon system. Typically, this radiation is in the infrared region (e.g., Sidewinder-type missiles) or the visible region (e.g., Maverick), but may also occur in the microwave region (e.g., Shrike). Nonhoming guided missiles, as we shall presently discuss, are either inertially guided or preprogrammed. From the above discussion, we note that missile guidance can occur after launch. By guiding after launch, the effect of prelaunch aiming errors can be considerably minimized. Hence, the primary purpose of postlaunch guidance is to relax prelaunch aiming requirements.
