# 5.5.2 Aircraft Delivery Modes

As aircraft delivery system technology has developed, different terms have been used for the same phenomenon. Terminology has been standardized to reduce some of the confusion in comparing aircraft. In this book, we will use the term mode to denote the sensor the system is using for data input to the fire control computer, and mechanization to denote the way the information is processed and displayed to the pilot. In this section, we will discuss radar, electrooptical sensors, and laser systems.

Radar. Level radar deliveries usually employ radar calibration of the pressure altimeter, and slant-range measurement to the target radar echo. With these two sides determined, the remaining side and angles are easily computed. There are four major functions associated with air-to-ground radars: (1) range measurement, (2) ground map, (3) terrain following/terrain avoidance (T F /T A), and (4) Doppler/moving target. Off-boresight ranging to target means that the target need not be directly ahead of the aircraft to have its range measured (i.e., slewable radar dish). Radar altimeters can be classed with these range-only systems; however, the radar beam of radar altimeters is not focused forward, but is broadcast in the lower aircraft hemisphere to obtain an echo from the Earth. Ground target mapping provides a map-like presentation of the returning radar echoes to permit target identification and aiming. Sophisticated ground-map bombing radars provide automatic sweep expansion as the range to the target decreases. Terrain following/terrain avoidance radars are focused into narrow cones that sweep at precisely controlled elevation angles to provide a picture of the vertical aspects of the radar echoes. Ground-map radars and terrain-following radars are at opposite ends of the spectrum. That is, one set of radar characteristics cannot do both jobs well. In state-of-the-art terrain-following systems, multiple radar antennas are employed, and a variety of computer-enhanced presentations are used to present data to the pilot/aircrew or automatically control the flight path. Doppler radar and automatic moving-target indicator (AMTI) are two names for the same type of system. As radar technology has improved, frequency-stable transmitters have been developed that permit use of the Doppler effect. The Doppler effect causes a frequency shift in the radar echo that is proportional to the relative velocity between the transmitter and the surface reflecting the signal. Specifically, in the case of airborne radars, the Earth’s surface is a moving target. Measurement of the frequency shift of the ground echo may be used to provide ground speed and drift information.
