From the above discussion, one can safely say that of vital interest in missile design is the development of advanced guidance and control concepts. For example, in the design of a guidance law for a homing missile, a continued effort should be the study of homing guidance and the means to optimize its performance in various intercept situations. The classical approach to missile guidance involves the use of a low-pass filter for estimating the line-of-sight angular rate along with a proportional guidance law. In addition to the classical methods, we will discuss the use of optimized digital guidance and control laws for highly dynamic engagements associated with air-to-air missiles, where the classical approaches often fail to achieve acceptable performance. Conventional proportional navigation systems, as will be discussed later in this book, have been improved with time-variable filtering, and the design process has been refined with automatic computer methods. Advanced guidance systems having superior performance have been designed with on-line Kalman estimation for filtering noisy radar data and with optimal control gains expressed in closed form. For instance, trajectory estimators are designed routinely using Kalman filtering theory and provide minimum variance estimates of key guidance variables based upon a linearized model of the trajectory. The guidance laws are commonly designed to yield as small a miss distance as possible, consistent, of course, with the missile’s acceleration capability. This is accomplished by mathematically requiring the commanded acceleration to minimize an appropriate performance index (or cost function) involving both the miss distance and the missile acceleration level. Today, the concept of optimized guidance laws is well understood in applications where information concerning the target range and line-of-sight angle is available. This is the case when the homing sensor is an active or semiactive radar (RF) or laser range finder. Moreover, considerable attention has been given to developing advanced guidance concepts for the situation in which direct measurements of range are unavailable, as with passive infrared or electro-optical sensors.
