Future smart air-to-air and surface-to-air missiles will carry advanced multimode infrared seekers and new countermeasure systems that will reduce considerably the effectiveness of conventional self-protection systems. In particular, the future joint air-to-surface standoff missile (JASSM) seekers will most likely be designed with imaging infrared $( I ^ { 2 } R )$ and the use of SAR. For instance, the AIM-9X air-to-air missile guidance system has been designed with an advanced imaging infrared focal plane array detector, and high off-boresight seeker and helmet-mounted display capability (see also Appendix F). A later version of the AIM-9X Sidewinder II, the AIM-9X Evolved Sidewinder heat-seeking missile development, has been delayed because of problems with the missile’s control actuation system: The mechanism that unlocks the control fins failed. This problem was corrected by redesigning the fin lock. The fin lock holds the control surfaces in place until a few moments after the missile has separated from the aircraft. Another type of passive infrared system is the forwardlooking infrared (FLIR) imaging sensor, which provides a different mode of target detection and recognition. The FLIR is commonly used in fire-control systems for initial target acquisition. Furthermore, FLIRSs may use a two-dimensional planar array of individual infrared detectors, so that the output is a two-dimensional infrared picture of the target. A video tracker microprocessor FLIR consists of sensors and ancillary electronics as well as video processing.
