In this section, the background methodology used to calculate radar and jamming SNR in surface-to-air missiles will be briefly described. We begin this section by developing the radar range equation. The basic relationship that determines the effectiveness of a radar is known as the radar range equation. This equation defines the maximum range at which a given radar can detect a given target. In essence, the radar range equation provides the most useful mathematical relationship available to the engineer in assessing both the need for, and the resulting effectiveness of, efforts to reduce radar target cross-section. In its complete form, the radar equation accounts for the following: (1) radar system parameters, (2) target parameters, (3) background effects (e.g., clutter and noise), (4) propagation effects (e.g., refraction and diffraction, and (5) propagation medium (absorption and scatter).

Assume now that a radar transmitter has a power output of $P _ { t }$ watts. If the power of the radar is radiated into space omnidirectionally, the power will be distributed evenly over the surface of a sphere whose center is located concentrically with the source of the power. Thus, at any range from the radar r, the surface area of the sphere is $4 \pi r ^ { 2 }$ . Dividing the total signal power by the surface area gives the power density at r for the omnidirectional antenna. Therefore, the power density of the signal at the target, located at a distance R from the radar, is simply [10]

$$\text { Power density at the target } = P _ {t} G _ {t} / (4 \pi) R ^ {2} [ \mathrm{watts} / \mathrm{m} ^ {2} ], \tag {3.91}$$

where $G _ { t }$ is the peak gain of the antenna. Next, we note that the transmitted signal illuminates the target representing an area $A _ { t }$ , creating power at the target. The portion of the signal that is scattered in the direction of the radar receiver will either amplify or degrade this power by the gain factor $G _ { t }$ . Consequently, the product $A _ { t } G _ { t }$ represents the radar cross-section $\sigma$ in units of $m ^ { 2 }$ . In other words, $\sigma$ is defined as the projected area that would be required to intercept and radiate isotropically the same power as the target radiates toward the radar receiver. Thus, we can treat the problem as though the target intercepts the power,

$$\text { Power intercepted } = P _ {t} G _ {t} \sigma / (4 \pi) R ^ {2} [ \text { watts } ], \tag {3.92}$$
