# 5.12.2 Weapon Delivery Targeting Systems

During Operation Allied Force, the U.S. Navy F-14 Tomcats used a new system to relay targeting information and improve the aircraft’s ability to drop bombs and conduct battlefield reconnaissance. Currently, the U.S. Navy is upgrading the F-14s to improve the strike and reconnaissance system for air war. Specifically, the Navy has been expanding the F-14’s bombing capability with the introduction of the LANTIRN (low-altitude navigation and targeting infrared for night) FLIR-targeting system and its reconnaissance capability provided by the Tarps (targeting and positioning system) imaging pod. Moreover, F-14 pilots will be able to use exact coordinates from the aircraft’s LANTIRN system to accurately aim all-weather, GPS-guided weapons. To improve the F-14’s role in targeting weapons, pilots will be able to use their LANTIRN system to determine the exact GPS coordinates of a target. Those coordinates usually have a small error caused by inaccuracies in the intelligence systems that locate the target. Using different components of the LANTIRN system, F-14s will be able to reduce that error. The result is a several-foot improvement in accuracy of GPS-guided weapons.

Note also that the F-15E dual-role air-to-air/air-to-ground all-weather deep interdiction fighter carries LANTIRN targeting and navigation pods. In addition, the F-15E has an APG-70 multimode X-band radar that includes MTI and SAR operating modes (SAR performance ranges from 10-ft low-resolution to 3-ft high-resolution, and 1-ft resolution in spot mode, while the ASARS-2 offers a resolution of 1 ft. (0.3048 m) over a 1-sq-mi-FOV from a range of more than 108 nm (200 km) and an altitude of more than 65,000 ft (19,812 m) when observing ground targets). On the other hand, the F-16C Block 40/50 fighter is equipped with an APG-68 multimode radar and LANTIRN. The radar has a low-resolution beam mode with a GMTI capability.
