2. Noncoherent Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP): The noncoherent electromagnetic pulse consists of an intense electronic signal of very short duration that travels through space just as a radio signal does. When an EMP strikes an aircraft, the electronic devices in the aircraft can be totally disabled or destroyed.

3. Charged Nuclear Particles: The charged-particle-beam weapon is the newest of the developing threats that utilizes radiation in the form of accelerated subatomic particles. These particles, or bunches of particles, may be focused on the target by means of magnetic fields. Thus, considerable damage can result. This type of weapon has the advantage that it will propagate through visible moisture, which tends to absorb energy generated by the HEL.

Regardless of the type of missile, a development cycle must be formulated that takes into account several phases of design and analysis. The missile development cycle commences with concept formulation, where one or more guidance methods are postulated and examined for feasibility and compatibility with the total system objectives and constraints. Surviving candidates are then compared quantitatively, and a baseline concept is adopted. Specific subsystem and component requirements are generated via extensive tradeoff and parametric studies. Factors such as missile capability (e.g., acceleration and response time), sensor function (e.g., tracking, illumination), accuracy (signal to noise, waveforms), and weapons control (e.g., fire control logic, guidance software) are established by means of both analytical and simulation techniques. After iteration of the concept/requirements phase and attainment of a set of feasible system requirements, the analytical design is initiated. During this stage, the guidance law is refined and detailed, a missile autopilot and the accompanying control actuator are designed, and an onboard sensor tracking and stabilization system is devised. This design phase entails the extensive use of feedback control theory and the analysis of nonlinear, nonstationary dynamic systems subjected to deterministic and random inputs. Finally, determination of the sources of error and their propagation through the system are of fundamental importance in setting design specifications and achieving a well-balanced design.
