# Geometry

There is an idealized flight-path, termed a lead-collision trajectory (see Section 4.4.2 for details), in which the missile does not have to maneuver to intercept the target. This flight-path is shown in Figure 5.35 for a launch platform at the position $\mathrm { F O } _ { L C }$ , and for which it is assumed that the launch aircraft is pointing in the correct direction.

If the minimum and maximum launch ranges for the straight-line flight of the missile are known, then the position $\mathrm { F O } _ { L C }$ for minimum and maximum ranges can be calculated. This can be done in the following way. First, a coordinate system is chosen that is centered at the position of the target (TO) at missile launch and in which the x-axis is aligned with the horizontal LOS from the launch aircraft to the target, the y-axis is to port, and the z-axis is up, forming a right-handed set of axes. If the time-of-flight $t _ { f }$ is known, then the target position at intercept (TI) is calculated. The target is assumed to fly on a constant heading and at constant speed. The angle between the horizontal LOS and the projection of the target’s flight-path onto the horizontal plane is the relative azimuth heading angle $( \psi _ { T } )$ and the angle between the target’s flight-path and the horizontal plane is the actual pitch heading $( \theta _ { T } )$ . The total missile flight-path to intercept (SI) is known, and the position of the launch aircraft when the missile is released can be found from geometry, since it must be on the x-axis (i.e., the horizontal LOS at launch).
