Pursuit: In the pursuit trajectory, the interceptor missile flies directly toward the target at all times. Thus, the heading of the missile is maintained essentially along the LOS between the missile and the target by the guidance system. The missile is constantly turning during an attack. Missiles flying a pursuit course usually end up in a tail-chase situation, similar to a dog chasing a rabbit (or hound-and-hare course). Pursuit guidance is considered impractical as a homing guidance law against moving targets because of the difficult maneuvers that are required to end the attack in a tail chase. That is, the maneuvers required of the missile become increasingly hard during the last, critical, stages of the flight. Another disadvantage of this guidance method is that the missile speed must be considerably greater than that of the target. The sharpest curvature of the missile flight path usually occurs at the end of the flight, so that at this time the missile must overtake the target. If the target attempts to evade, the last-minute angular acceleration requirements placed on the missile could exceed the aerodynamic capability, thereby causing a large miss distance. Furthermore, near the end of the flight, the missile is usually coasting because the booster (and sustainer) motor thrusts last for only a short part of the flight. The result is that more energy is required on the part of the missile to make short-radius, high-speed turns at a time when the missile is losing speed and has the least turning capability. The most favorable application of the pursuit course guidance law is against slow-moving aircraft, or head on toward an incoming aircraft.

Deviated Pursuit: The interceptor missile tracks the target and produces guidance commands. This guidance law is similar to pure pursuit, except that the missile heading leads the LOS by a fixed angle. When the fixed lead angle is zero, deviated pursuit becomes pure pursuit. No missile is designed to fly deviated pursuit; however, random errors and unwanted bias lines often result in a deviated pursuit course.
