Tactical Tomahawk (or Block 4) is the latest evolution of the long-range, shipand submarine-launched cruise missile. The main enhancement is the addition of a two-way UHF satellite communication link that allows operators to retarget the missile in flight and to gain imagery of the target before the missile impacts. Also, the missile uses a new Williams International F415-WR-400 turbojet engine. The range is expected to be over 500 miles. During the flight tests, the Navy demonstrated GPS guidance during cruise, and refined navigation using the DSMAC function over land. DSMAC’s primary function is to determine the exact location of the missile and update the navigation system by removing guidance errors and providing greater precision than can be achieved by relying on GPS. Eventually, military operators should be able to change the missile’s flight path, but also to simply launch the missile into a general area, have it loiter, and only then provide information on the target to be attacked, giving them an unprecedented degree of flexibility. The Navy also is preparing a development project for Tactical Tomahawk to carry a penetrating warhead. It would follow a Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA)-sponsored demonstration that is to culminate in flight tests in 2003 using a WDU-43 warhead. The Navy hopes to field Tactical Tomahawk in 2004.

The U.S. Navy is exploring the possibility of using a new supersonic sea-skimming target (SSST) to exercise ship self-protection against advanced threats. The Navy wants the new target to replicate what is widely seen as one of the greatest threats to its ships, the Russian-built SS-N-22 Sunburn missile. A variable-flow, solid-fuel ducted ramjet is to power the target. Among the systems to make use of the SSST are the Navy’s Standard Missile and the Evolved Sea Sparrow Missile. The minimum performance requirements for the SSST include a cruise speed of Mach 2.0 (Mach 3.0 goal) with a cruise altitude of 66 ft and 15 ft during the last phases of the flight. The target’s range is supposed to be at least 45 nm, although a greater range of 55 nm capability is desired. One potential growth option for the SSST is equipping it with a warhead and using it as a missile.
