Variation of dynamic pressure with flight conditions alters the autopilot characteristics from one of fast response with minimum stability at high dynamic pressures to one of relatively slow response with maximum stability at low dynamic pressures. In addition, the roll autopilot has velocity compensation to further increase the roll autopilot effectiveness over the operational envelope. Another function of the roll autopilot, say in air-to-air engagements, is to roll the missile in response to command signals initiated by the launching aircraft. In other words, and as stated above, a commanded rotation of the missile is necessary to achieve proper umbilical-up missile orientation when the configuration of the launching aircraft makes it impractical to launch the missile with this orientation. The aircraft roll command is delayed from being applied to the autopilot until the missile has cleared the aircraft, at approximately 0.5 seconds.

The missile velocity for controlling roll autopilot gain during flight is accomplished by electronically integrating the output of the longitudinal accelerometer and using this integrator output to control roll gain. In the prelaunch condition, the true air speed (TAS) signal at 1-volt peak-to-peak of 400 Hz signal per 100 ft/sec from the launching aircraft is converted and stored on a capacitor. The initial velocity of the missile is the true airspeed of the carrier aircraft at the time of launch. Note that airto-air missiles use TAS at launch, in conjunction with missile acceleration, to enable better control of corrective missile maneuvers through the use of velocity compensation in the autopilot. Maximum fin deflection is limited by the missile velocity and the altitude band in which the missile is flying.

We conclude the discussion of the roll autopilot by noting that in designing the roll loop, one must know the maximum anticipated induced rolling moment and the desired roll-position accuracy. It is estimated that the largest rolling moments will occur at about M = 2.8 due to unequal incidence in pitch and yaw. Rolling moments are obtained from the following four sources and converted into acceleration about the missile longitudinal axis:
