# 4.8.1 Introduction

The classical techniques of using low-pass filtering to attenuate the noise inherent in the guidance signal and using proportional navigation to steer a missile toward the target were well developed before the advent of modern control and estimation theory. They have become firmly entrenched in guided missile designs because they have worked well in the rather benign environment of past air-to-air engagements and were easily implemented with analog circuitry. Because of such an approach, missile designers have often tried to satisfy the increased performance requirements of modern-day air-to-air missiles by increasing the complexity of associated hardware such as airframes, seekers, gyroscopes, accelerometers, and engines. Such approaches in many cases have improved performance, but the resulting cost has often been so high that the systems were never developed for operational use or were purchased in small quantities.

During the late 1960s and early 1970s a few missile designers did take a cursory look at applying the modern control theory developed during the late 1950s and early 1960s to tactical missiles. Basically, such an approach would replace the low-pass filter with an optimal estimator, such as the Kalman filter. In theory, this would allow one to optimally separate the signal from the noise by using information about the missile dynamics and noise covariances rather than filtering based only on frequency content. In addition, missile/target states other than LOS rate could be estimated, even if not measured, provided they were mathematically observable. This, in turn, would allow one to design more advanced guidance laws based upon optimal control theory, because such theory usually requires complete information concerning the missile states.
