Another class of ballistic missiles for which antimissile interception techniques are under study is that of tactical ballistic missiles (TBMs). Even though TBMs have a short range (typically 120–1850 nm), they are nevertheless fast becoming a real threat. Tracking these missiles can be done from land or sea. Also, as stated earlier, tracking from space with satellites can certainly be effective in identifying missiles in flight. Infrared sensors will detect missile plume. Radar tracking of TBMs from ships for the launch and reentry is also plausible.

The airborne laser described above has been dubbed as the “leading edge of theater ballistic missile defense systems.” The ABL antiballistic missile program, the world’s first laser-armed combat aircraft, is on track for a live-fire demonstration in the year 2004. During the preliminary design and risk reduction phase, the industry team is designing, developing, integrating, and testing the airborne laser system. The effort will culminate with the planned test destruction of Scud-type missiles by the airborne laser in 2003 (note the difference between this and the IFX Minuteman III planned intercept). Specifically, the ABL is scheduled to shoot down its first missile in a test over the Pacific Ocean in 2004. The ground and flight test program began in 2001 and will continue through 2003 with a series of tests against representative missiles. Finally, in actual battle, an airborne laser fleet could arrive on the scene within hours, ready to take defensive positions. Two attack lasers would be flying around the clock, orbiting at about 40,000 ft, providing defense against attacking missiles. However, it should be pointed out that the Air Force’s ABL program and in particular the ballistic missile interception presents some difficult problems that must be dealt with in order for it to become a reality.
