The interception of ICBMs using the BPI technology is considered by many experts in the field as the most promising and effective way to counter enemy ballistic missile threats. For instance, in the case of ICBMs, the defense has about 180–300 sec during which the target is boosting and presents a large IR signature to track (note that an IR launch warning sensor will be needed to warn of an ICBM launch). An obvious benefit of having a boost-phase element in a larger missile defense architecture, some experts believe, is that it makes it more difficult for an enemy to devise countermeasures. One of the greatest advantages of boost-phase systems is that they can destroy a missile regardless of its design range. Consequently, if the missile carries a nuclear, chemical, or biological warhead, in most cases, it would fall on the enemy’s own territory. The greatest difficulty in using the BPI technology is that everything from launch to detection to intercept must be completed within a few minutes (e.g., a maximum of 5 min).

More specifically, the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is working toward the deployment of an integrated, layered missile defense system that will provide limited defense against long-range threats and a robust defense against shorter-range threats. A layered defense seeks to destroy missiles in (a) the boost, (b) midcourse, and (c) terminal phases of their trajectory. That is, the system would use multiple shots in each phase. We begin this discussion by summarizing the concept of the layered missile defense system.

Boost-Phase: The boost-phase defense is the airborne laser (ABL). This speed-of-light laser system, as will be discussed later, would strike missiles shortly after launch. The agency is also looking at other sea-based and ground systems. It is estimated that the boost-phase system might be ready by the year 2009.

Midcourse: Midcourse defenses include the exoatmospheric kill vehicle. This hit-tokill vehicle rams into incoming warheads in space. The collision, at some 15,000 miles per hour, vaporizes both. Recent tests have proved that the hit-to-kill technology is mature and effective. Another midcourse system is sea-based and has also been tested successfully. The experience with the Navy standard missile, 3 (SM-3), has been so positive that the agency will speed development.

Terminal-Phase: Terminal-phase systems are perhaps the ones the public knows most.
