1. Induced Roll: The four fins on the missile produce a rolling moment when the wind direction is not symmetric.   
2. Fin Blanking: When the fins are displaced, asymmetric air flow causes differential lift on either side of the body. The rolling moment induced will depend on the angle of attack and Mach number; therefore, to modify these effects, a modifying function is commonly used.   
3. Aileron Moment: The effective aileron deflection $\delta _ { a }$ , obtained by differential fin commands, is used to calculate a rolling moment (assumed to vary linearly with $\delta _ { a }$ , but with a slope varying with Mach number.   
4. Roll Damping: The roll damping moment is assumed proportional to roll rate, and the coefficient $C _ { l }$ is looked up as a function Mach number alone.

Pitch/Yaw Autopilot: Basically, the pitch/yaw autopilots (also known as lateral autopilots) each consist of a major accelerometer feedback loop that provides the desired conversion of commanded acceleration to missile acceleration, and a minor rate feedback loop that provides the necessary damping of missile pitch or yaw rates. Therefore, because the pitch and yaw autopilots must control the lateral (lateral movement means up–down or left–right) acceleration of the missile in accordance with the proportional navigation guidance law, each autopilot must have feedback from an accelerometer. Additionally, one or usually two inner loops with feedback from a spring-restrained rate gyro are required for compensating the poles of the airframe response. (These two loops could also be mechanized with an integrating gyro, but at a higher cost than the improvement in drift performance would warrant.) For a symmetric cruciform missile, the pitch and yaw autopilot channels are identical. Therefore, only one will be discussed.
