Lead Pursuit: A lead pursuit course is flown by an interceptor (i.e., a missile) directing its velocity vector at an angle from the target so that projectiles launched from any point on the course will impact on the target if it is within the range of the weapon. Note that the interceptor in conjunction with the missile trajectory flies lead pursuit.

Lead Collision: Lead collision is a straight-line course flown by an interceptor such that the interceptor will achieve a single given firing position. Specifically, in lead collision homing, if the target speed and heading remain constant, a constant-speed missile will fly a straight-line path to the target–missile collision. The target and missile flight paths form a single triangle with the line of sight (LOS) from the missile to the target. This relationship is shown in Figure 4.3. An obvious advantage of collision homing is that the missile is subjected to a minimum of maneuvers since the flight path approximates a straight line. The time of flight of the weapon is a constant.

Pure Collision: Pure collision is a straight-line course flown by an interceptor or weapon such that it will collide with the target.

Constant Load Factor: A constant load factor course is flown by an interceptor or missile so that a constant-g load factor load on the interceptor will result in collision with the target. No missiles presently fly constant load factors. Normal acceleration is constant in this course.

Proportional Navigation: Proportional navigation (also referred to as collision homing) is flown in such a manner as to change the lead angle at a rate proportional to the angular rate of the line of sight to the target. The missile measures the rotation of the LOS and turns at a rate proportional to it. Specifically, the classical proportional navigation guidance law tries to null the heading error for intercepting the target. The constant of proportionality between the turn rate and line-of-sight rate is called the navigation constant (N). In essence, the trajectory flown by the missile is heavily influenced by its navigation constant. This constant is maintained between the missile lateral acceleration $\left( a _ { n } \right)$ and the product of the line-of-sight rate $( d \lambda / d t )$ and closing velocity $V _ { c }$ . Mathematically, proportional navigation can be expressed as

$$a _ {n} = N V _ {c} \left(\frac {d \lambda}{d t}\right).$$
