# 5.14 Bomb Steering

We begin this section by defining the aircraft navigational steering requirements. This function includes the computation of the desired track angle and path, track angle and crosstrack errors, a steering command to the automatic flight control system (FCS), and related variables for display. Navigation steering operates under several modes determined in the system management control. The steering modes to be mechanized are:

Direct (Great Circle) Mode. The aircraft flight path includes many intermediate reference points that form a sequence of destinations. When it is time to turn and/or pass a given reference point, it is necessary to sequence the reference points used actively in the guidance equations. These active reference points are known as “previous destination,” “current destination,” and “next destination.” The “current destination” is the reference point near which the next sequencing will occur and is often the point toward which the aircraft is directed. After sequencing, the former “current destination” becomes the “previous destination,” and the former “next generation” becomes the “current destination.” Each reference point is specified by its latitude and longitude. In FLY-TO crosshairs, the crosshairs location becomes the “current destination.” In direct mode, a great circle course (desired track angle) is continuously computed based on current position and destination. In this mode, the steering command is proportional to the track angle error.

Centerline Recovery Mode. In the centerline recovery mode, the aircraft is steered to follow a great circle ground track path, directed from one point to another, spaced by at least 6,000 feet. These two points, for example, may be previous and current destinations. The steering command is a function of both track angle error and crosstrack position error. The crosstrack position and azimuth errors are calculated from the desired track for use by the steering law. By definition, since the desired track is from the current aircraft position to the destination, the crosstrack position error is zero in the direct mode.
