The V-1 was a small, midwing, pilotless monoplane, lacking ailerons but using conventional airframe and tail construction, having an overall length of 7.9 m (25.9 ft) and a wingspan of 5.3 m (17.3 ft). It weighed 2,180 kg (4,806 lb), including gasoline fuel and an 850 kg (1,874 lb) warhead. Powered by a pulsejet engine and launched from an inclined concrete ramp 45.72 m (150 ft) long and 4.88 m (16 ft) above the ground at the highest end, the V-1 flew a preset distance, and then switched on a release system, which deflected the elevators, diving the missile straight into the ground. The engine was capable of propelling the V-1 724 km/hr (450 mph). A speed of 322 km/hr (200 mph) had to be reached before the V-1 propulsion unit could maintain the missile in flight. The range of the V-1 was 370 km (230 miles). Guidance was accomplished by an autopilot along a preset path. Specifically, the plane’s (or missile’s) course stabilization was maintained by a magnetically controlled gyroscope that directed a tail rudder. When the predetermined distance was reached, as mentioned above, a servomechanism depressed the elevators, sending the plane into a steep dive. The V-1 was not accurate, and it was susceptible to destruction by antiaircraft fire and aircraft. Several versions of the V-1 were developed in Germany at that time. One version was designed for launch from the air. The missile could be carried under the left wing of a Heinkel He-111 aircraft. A manned V-1 version was also developed, called the Reichenberg, flown first by Willy Fiedler, followed by Hanna Reitch. This version was planned for suicide missions. Three versions were built.
