Another important area in missile guidance is electronic countermeasures (ECM). ECM relies on a number of techniques, such as creating saturation of the radar screen to hide the desired target by using a stand-off jammer, thus creating false targets with chaff, or using a deception jammer to break radar track on the target. In the case of chaff, the idea is to force the tracking radar off the target. Specifically, in order to avoid SAMs headed at them, jet aircraft fighter pilots frequently eject chaff and flares that disrupt the missile’s homing system. If that does not work, they may have to wait until seconds before a SAM is about to catch up to them and then do an evasive maneuver. Also, in order to slip away from a SAM, which is faster than a fighter jet, pilots often have to jettison the external fuel tanks that hang under each wing. (Note that a rising SAM looks like a doughnut to a pilot, that is, it appears as a ring of fire with a hole in the middle and is probably on a trajectory aimed directly at the plane.

Deception jammers are generally carried on the jamming vehicle (i.e., aircraft or missile). Thus, spatial separation of the jammer and target cannot be used to break track, as can be done with chaff. In addition, most modern missiles have a homeon-jam mode; thus simple barrage jamming will also be unsuccessful. (Barrage or broadband jamming consists in jamming a spectrum of frequencies much wider than the operating bandwidth of the radar. Barrage jamming is normally used when the radar frequency is either unknown or changing, or to cover the operating frequencies of more than one radar.) For this reason, deception jammers must produce a signal that appears to the radar to come from somewhere other than the target. One successful jamming technique is to produce a jamming signal amplitude modulated at the conical scan frequency. If sufficiently strong, such a signal will mask the signal from the target and produce a false error signal likely to cause a loss of track. It should be pointed out that monopulse systems are immune to amplitude modulation jamming because they produce an error signal based on each pulse. All jamming methods require that the jamming signal overcome the skin return from the target. Three common types of jamming models are the following:
