The platform has four gimbals for all-attitude operation, with the outermost gimbal being the outer roll, which has unlimited freedom.
Proceeding inward, the next gimbal is pitch, which is normally limited $\mathrm { t o } \pm 1 0 5 ^ { \circ }$ of freedom.
The next inward gimbal is inner roll, which is redundant with the outer roll axis but is required in order to eliminate what is called gimbal lock and is limited $\mathrm { t o } \pm 1 5 ^ { \circ }$ angular freedom.
All inertial sensors are mounted on the azimuth gimbal, the innermost gimbal.
The gyroscopes are mounted such that the vertical gyroscope is mounted with its spin axis parallel to the azimuth gimbal rotational axis and positioned to coincide with the local vertical when the platform is erected to X and Y (level) accelerometer nulls.
The X and Y axis accelerometers, mounted on the azimuth structure, are aligned to sense horizontal accelerations along the gyro X and Y axes, respectively, while the Z, or vertical, accelerometer senses accelerations along the azimuth axis.
After being supplied with initial position information, the INS is capable of continuously updating extremely accurate displays of position, ground speed, attitude, and heading.
In addition, it provides guidance or steering information for autopilot and flight instruments (in the case of aircraft).

Note that the above discussion was for gimbaled inertial navigation systems. There is also a class of strapdown INSs in which the inertial sensors are mounted directly on the host vehicle frame. In this way, the gimbal structure is eliminated. In the strapdown version of the INS, wherein sensors are mounted directly on the vehicle, the transformation from the sensor to inertial reference is “computed” rather than mechanized. Specifically, the strapdown system differs from the gimbaled system in that the specific force is measured in the body frame, and the attitude transformation to the navigation specific force is computed from the gyro data, because the strapdown sensors are fixed to the vehicle frame. Regardless of mechanization (i.e., gimbaled or strapdown), alignment of an inertial navigation system is of paramount importance. In alignment, the accelerometers must be leveled (i.e., indicating zero output), and the platform must be oriented to true north. This process is normally called gyrocompassing.
