# Mission Description

The SRAM II mission starts during captive carry of the missile before launch (see also Chapter 7). While the missile is on board the carrier (note that at this point the missile will undergo an in-air alignment using GPS signals) the relative positions of candidate targets are calculated to determine whether they are within range. After the target is selected and assigned to the missile, the coordinates of the target are transferred to the AVC. The nominal trajectory that the missile will actually fly is then calculated from a database stored in the AVC. This trajectory must accurately represent the preflight-designed flight path and match the boundary conditions of prescribed launch point and the desired target. At the launch point, calculations are made for weapon delivery to ensure a safe release of the missile. A safe launch is dependent on the atmospheric flow field that the missile must travel through to clear the carrier, and on having sufficient carrier altitude for the missile to recover from its initial sink rate before impacting the ground. On command from the carrier crew the missile is released, and upon crossing the carrier safe-clearance boundary, the rocket motor ignites. Just after release, the missile undergoes a launch recovery maneuver to stabilize the missile and arrest the initial sink rate. The missile passes through a transition phase from launch recovery, to gradually transition into free flight. At this time, closed-loop guidance is initiated and continues to process and issue steering commands for the remainder of the flight. During powered flight, two solid-rocket motor pulses propel the missile. A nonpowered coast period follows burnout of the first motor pulse prior to second pulse ignition. After the rocket motor burns out, the missile continues to coast to the target.
