Historically, the ALCM’s fundamental functional requirements and the resulting design originated in the SCAD (subsonic cruise armed decoy) program, ca. 1972. A significant characteristic of the ALCM is the high accuracy at long missile ranges provided by its terrain correlation updated navigation system. In order to implement a terrain correlation updated navigation system, reference terrain elevations must be stored in the missile’s computer prior to launch. This elevation data must be gathered, stored in ground computers, precisely selected for each mission, stored in the carrier aircraft, and transmitted to the missile prior to launch. More specifically, the missile’s navigation and guidance unit uses a terrain contour matching (TERCOM) system that periodically updates the missile’s inertial navigation system by comparing terrain over which the missile flies with stored mapping data. The TERCOM data are provided by the Defense Mapping Agency-Aerospace Center (DMAAC). Flight-control surfaces remain stowed and the engine cold until after separation from the carrier aircraft. Surface deployment and engine startup are accomplished in two seconds. Consequently, the carrier aircraft system can align and launch ALCMs carried on wingmounted pylons or a rotary rack carried in the bomb bay. The carrier aircraft avionics include a master computer, which provides initialization and alignment data to the ALCM and sequences the missiles through launch. The carrier aircraft INS can be aligned using standard operating procedures for an airborne alignment. An average of five position fixes should be taken before transfer alignment to the missile. The analysis of transfer alignment includes the time to align and the initial conditions at launch. The initial conditions are usually computed by differencing the missile position with TSPI (time space positioning information) data. Position updates are taken from terrain correlation maps to correct the unbounded position error growth inherent to the cruise missile guidance system.
