Earlier in this section, the equations of motion for a missile were discussed assuming the missile to be a rigid body. However, all materials exhibit deformation under the action of forces: elasticity when a given force produces a definite deformation, which vanishes if the force is removed; plasticity if the removal of the force leaves permanent deformation; flow if the deformation continually increases without limit under the action of forces, however small.

A “fluid” is material that flows. Actual fluids fall into two categories, namely, gases and liquids. A “gas” will ultimately fill any closed space to which it has access and is therefore classified as a (highly) compressive fluid. A “liquid” at constant temperature and pressure has a definite volume and when placed in an open vessel will take under the action of gravity the form of the lower part of the vessel and will be bounded above by a horizontal free surface. All known liquids are to some extent compressible. For most purposes it is, however, sufficient to regard liquids as incompressible fluids. It should be pointed out that for speeds that are not comparable with that of sound, the effect of compressibility on atmospheric air can be neglected, and in many experiments that are carried out in wind tunnels the air is considered to be a liquid, in the above sense, which may conveniently be called incompressible air.

All liquids (and gases) in common with solids exhibit viscosity arising from internal friction in the substance. For those readers interested in pursuing more thoroughly the area of incompressible air and/or fluid flow, the Navier–Stokes equation is a good start. The Euler and Navier–Stokes equations describe the motion of a fluid in $\mathbf { R } ^ { n } \left( n = 2 \mathrm { o r } 3 \right)$ . These equations are to be solved for an unknown velocity vector ${ \mathbf { u } } ( { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { \mathit { x } } } } , t ) = ( { \mathbf { u } } _ { i } ( { \boldsymbol { \mathbf { \mathit { x } } } } , t ) ) _ { 1 \leq i \leq n } \in { \mathbf { \mathbf { \mathbf { R } } } } ^ { n }$ and pressure $p ( { \pmb x } , t ) \in { \bf R }$ , defined for position $\pmb { x } \in \mathbf { R } ^ { n }$ and time $t \geq 0$ . We restrict attention here to incompressible fluids filling all of $\mathbf { R } ^ { n }$ . The Navier–Stokes equations are then given by
