Various types of cruise missiles are now in service or under development in the U.S.A. and other countries. In the United States, some of the cruise missile types are (1) the air-launched cruise missile (ALCM) designated AGM-86B (nuclear)∗ using the W80-1 nuclear warhead, the conventional air-launched cruise missile (CALCM) also seen as Calcm designated AGM-86C, and the advanced cruise missile (ACM) designated AGM-129 (A,B) the former developed by the Boeing Aerospace Company and the latter by General Dynamics Convair Division (the program was canceled in November 1991); (2) the standoff land-attack missile (SLAM) designated AGM-84E-1; and (3) the sea-launched cruise missile (SLCM) such as the Tomahawk designated BGM-109. The conventional version of the ALCM using GPS navigation was secretly developed in the mid-1980s and launched successfully in Operation Desert Storm in 1991 against Iraqi targets. Thus, GPS guidance became a reality. In addition, some SSBNs (i.e., Tridents) are scheduled to be retired under the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START II). President George H. W. Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin signed the START II treaty in January 1993. The treaty, to reduce nuclear arsenals to between 3,000 and 3,500, was ratified by the U.S. Senate in January 1996. The Russian parliament ratified it in 2000. It should also be pointed out here that on May 24, 2002, President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a treaty to shrink their nuclear arsenals by two-thirds. The treaty, which must be approved by the Senate, would limit the United States and Russia to 1,700 to 2,200 nuclear warheads apiece by 2012 (the United States now has about 6,000 strategic nuclear weapons, Russia about 5,500). As a result of this treaty, the nuclear-armed Trident missile boats could be converted to guided-missile submarines (SSGNs). Each SSGN would be capable of carrying 154 Tomahawks.
