# 4.8.3 Optimal Control of Linear Feedback Systems with Quadratic Performance Criteria

The application of optimal linear regulator theory in missile guidance and analysis is, as stated in the introduction, not a new idea. Specifically, there have been investigations dealing with subsystem decomposition, partial state feedback, and the constraining of the time-varying structure of feedback gains. It is well known that the optimal control law of the form ${ \mathbf { u } } ^ { * } ( t ) = - K ^ { * } ( t ) { \mathbf { x } } ( t )$ , where the elements of $K ^ { * } ( t )$ are time-varying feedback gains, is computed from the solution of a nonlinear matrix Riccati differential equation. The guidance algorithm (or law) that will be developed here is a linear quadratic regulator (LQR) (or specifically, a linear quadratic tracker with terminal controller) derived from modern control theory. Designed for implementation in an onboard digital computer, the algorithm will calculate the motor ignition times and the missile steering angles during powered and unpowered flight using full missile state feedback. The current missile state will be provided by a ring laser gyro strapdown inertial navigation system. The algorithm must calculate commands for complex maneuvers, respond to in-flight perturbations, adapt to varying mission requirements, interface with other software subsystems, and fit within the resources of the onboard computer. Real-time implementation of a guidance law requires bridging the gap that exists between theory and flight code. This means solving numerous difficult problems that are not apparent until the missile hardware and software subsystems, together with the operational missions, are well defined.

Consider now the linear dynamical system characterized by the canonical equation

$$\frac {d \mathbf {x} (t)}{d t} = \mathbf {A x} (t) + \mathbf {B u} (t), \tag {4.120}\mathbf {x} _ {o} \triangleq \mathbf {x} (t _ {0}),\mathbf {u} (t) \in U,0 \leq t \leq T,$$
