All homing systems in use today employ some form of proportional navigation (PN) for the guidance law (for more details on PN see Section 4.5). There are several reasons why proportional navigation has been used extensively in past and present homing systems. First, proportional navigation is very effective in guiding missiles to intercept low-maneuvering aircraft under restricted launch conditions. Second, proportional navigation is relatively easy to implement using simple off-the-shelf hardware. Third, even though the specific guidance and control law may vary from one missile to another, all of these laws work fairly well against stationary and constantvelocity targets. However, these control laws must be modified when used against highly maneuverable targets. Section 4.1.3 presents a survey of the overall performance of proportional navigation systems based on linearized theory. Linearization reduces the complexity of design, without compromising the realism of the resulting analysis. Therefore, a major task of the missile designer is to ensure that significant nonlinearities do not occur. Finally, the advantage of using homing guidance is that the measurement accuracy continually improves because the interceptor missile, and its seeker, get closer to the target as the flight progresses.

A typical military requirement might be for a surface-to-air missile that will engage and destroy targets of the following characteristics: (1) A speed of up to 2,000 ft/sec, (2) high maneuverability, (3) low altitude, and (4) minimum ground station to target range of about 1,500 ft. At such close range a line-of-sight missile would have to make a very sharp turn at high speed to engage the target, particularly if the target’s course was not directed toward the ground station. It would be difficult or impossible to construct a missile that would withstand the resulting accelerations without going out of control. Therefore, the situation requires a guidance system capable of minimizing missile maneuver, one in which the missile leads the target to a collision at an anticipated position. A semiactive homing missile with proportional navigation is particularly suited to a problem of this kind.

From a performance perspective, an interceptor with 10 g acceleration and a top speed of 10 km/sec (6.2 miles/sec) would have a range of about 400 km (248.5 miles) to reach a target that requires 90 sec to accelerate. A higher acceleration interceptor, capable of 20 g, could cover an 800 km (497 mile) range.
