It was noted earlier that prior to beginning an engineering development program for a digital guidance and control system, it is desirable to perform a detailed computeraided feasibility study within the context of a realistic missile–target engagement model. In order to accomplish these, guidance and control laws that have been developed and evaluated for simplified missile–target engagement scenarios must be extended and adapted to the air-to-air missile situation and then implemented in a complete three-dimensional engagement model.

Finally, microprocessor technology will allow future application of more sophisticated guidance and control laws that consider the effects of uncertain system parameters than have heretofore been considered for tactical missiles. System miniaturization is becoming more and more common in weapon systems. For example, a miniaturized system that can integrate GPS and inertial guidance to increase accuracy of Army and Navy artillery shells has already been developed. These systems can be placed on a circuit board and are small enough to fit into the nose of an artillery shell. Above all, a single processor placed on the board can be used to handle GPS and inertial data from MEMS. The Army’s XM-982 and the Navy’s Extended Range Guided Munition (ERGM) will use the GPS system (see also Appendix F). Missile guidance systems are advancing on several fronts as GPS spreads into old and new systems, automatic target recognition moves toward deployment, and ballistic missile defense programs improve the state of the art in data fusion and infrared sensors. Missile systems presently under research and development will evolve into smaller, more accurate missiles.
