The V-2 consisted of two main parts: (1) a directional reference made up of a gyroscopic assembly to control the attitude of the missile and a clock-driven pitch programmer, and (2) an integrating accelerometer in order to sense accelerations along the thrust axis of the missile, thereby determining velocity, and to cut off the engine upon reaching a predetermined velocity.
In essence, the V-2 system was the first primitive example of inertial guidance, making use of gyroscopes and accelerometers [3].

Several other German missiles were also highly developed during World War II and were in various stages of test. One of these, the Rheinbote (Rhein Messenger), was also a surface-to-surface missile. This rocket was a three-stage device with boosterassisted takeoff. Its range was 217 km (135 miles), with the third stage reaching over 5,150 km/hr (3200 mph) in about 25 seconds after launch. The overall length of the rocket was about 11.3 m (37 ft). After having dropped a rearward section at the end of each of the first and second stages, it had a length of only 3.96 m (13 ft). The 3.96 m (13 ft) section of the third stage carried a 40 kg (88 lb) high-explosive warhead. An antiaircraft or surface-to-air missile, the Wasserfall (Waterfall), was a remote radio-controlled supersonic rocket, similar to the V-2 in general principles of operation (e.g., both were launched vertically). When fully loaded, it had a weight of slightly less than 4,907 kg (5.4 tons). Its length was 7.62 m (25 ft). Designed for intercepting aircraft, the missile had specifications that called for a maximum altitude of 19,812 m (65,000 ft), a speed of 2,172 km/hr (1,350 mph), and a range of 48.3 km (30 miles). Its 90.7 kg (200 lb) warhead could be detonated by radio after the missile had been command-controlled to its target by radio signals. It also had an infrared proximity fuze and homing device for control on final approach to the target and for detonating the warhead at the most advantageous point in the approach. Propulsion was to be obtained from a liquid-propellant power plant, with nitrogen-pressurized tanks. Another surface-to-air missile, the Schmetterling (Butterfly), designated HS-117, was still in the development stage at the close of the war. All metal in construction, it was 3.96 m (13 ft) long and had a wingspan of 1.98 m (6.5 ft). Its effective range against low-altitude targets was 16 km (10 miles). It traveled at subsonic speed of about 869 km/hr (540 mph) at altitudes up to 10,668 m (35,000 ft). A proximity fuze would set off its 24.95 kg (55 lb) warhead. Propulsion was obtained from a liquid-propellant rocket motor with additional help from two booster rockets during takeoff. Launching was to be accomplished from a platform, which could be inclined and rotated toward the target. The Schmetterling was developed at the Henschel Aircraft Works.
