Ramjet propulsion is a key ingredient of new antiradar missile technology. With a Mach 3 or more capability, ram rocket propulsion will have increased range and reduced time to target. Research is also being conducted into the so-called scramjet engines. These engines would have the power to hurtle through the air at Mach 6 or more. The engines initially will be installed in cruise missiles, making them hypersonic, meaning that they move faster than five times the speed of sound, and more deadly. Cruise missiles, which are launched from aircraft, now travel slower than the speed of sound. The scramjet engine should enable cruise missiles to strike targets such as transportable Scud missile launchers or fixed targets that must be taken out quickly. It also could be used to hit deeply buried targets. A 1996 study conducted at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama showed that hypersonic cruise missiles could have a range of more than 1,000 miles, allowing the aircraft from which they are launched to stay out of harm’s way.

Unlike conventional jet engines, the scramjet does not require rotating fans and compressors. Instead, it relies on the forward motion of the vehicle to compress the air. Once inside the engine, the air mixes with the injected fuel and is burned. The hot gas exits the rear of the engine and provides thrust by pushing against a nozzle-like surface. The biggest hurdle for researchers is dealing with the high speed of the wind as it enters the engine. The main issue is to get the fuel and the air mixed well enough so that fuel and air can burn in the very limited time available.
