It should be noted that the JHMCS is not being developed to replace the HUD. The system augments the HUD by providing the pilot information outside the HUD FOV. The display capabilities of JHMCS are less important than its cueing∗ capabilities. The helmet is being developed to work together with the aircraft’s radar and the AIM-9X Sidewinder supersonic heat-seeking air-to-air missile, which is also under development at the present time. The cueing ability will allow pilots to aim and fire an AIM-9X missile at an enemy at a high angle off the aircraft’s heading. For example, if a pilot sees an enemy aircraft off his left side, he will be able to cue his radar on the target and/or fire a missile at it without repositioning his plane to face the target. JHMCS will also verify that the AIM-9X is locked onto the correct target. Thus, the JHMCS will open up the weapon’s employment zone, giving pilots more flexibility in combat.

Testers are initially developing JHMCS on an F-15. However, and as mentioned above, simultaneous development is also being conducted on the Navy’s F-18 at the Naval Air Warfare Center, Weapons Division, China Lake, California. Once the system is developed on these aircraft, it will be integrated into the $F { \mathrm { - } } I 6 ,$ the F/A-22, and possibly the joint strike fighter (JSF). In summary, the advantages of the JHCMS are many. Because it dramatically improves a pilot’s situational awareness, the JHCMS represents a major increase in lethality. A pilot can now simply point his head to direct and launch advanced weapons like the AIM-9X high off-boresight, short-range missile. Therefore, specific benefits of the JHCMS include the following: (1) simultaneous cueing and display of aircraft sensor and weapon information, (2) display of threat locations through GPS data, navigation coordinates, and waypoints, (3) the ability to cue and verify that a pilot is locked on the target (and not on his wingman) before deploying current and next-generation missiles, (4) a $2 0 ^ { \circ }$ field of view with full spherical coverage and day/night operability, and (5) easy boresight (aligning pilot’s targeting optics with weapons/sensors), and video record–playback capability.
