Laser-guided munitions provide the pinpoint accuracy required to minimize collateral damage at a relatively low unit cost, and since fewer rounds are needed per kill, they provide a low cost per kill. In addition, laser-guided munitions are not susceptible to GPS or other radio jamming. An Electrooptical (EO) targeting system with long-range laser designation capability could be mounted on an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to provide target designation for semiactive laser (SAL) guided munitions from a safe altitude with no risk to human life. Hands-off targeting by the shooter and initial weapons guidance would be ensured by providing the target GPS coordinates to the UAV. SAL guided munitions that are currently available include AGM-114 Hellfire and AGM-65E Maverick missiles, the 155 mm Copperhead artillery round, the GBU-15, the GBU-28, and Paveway II and III laser guided bombs (see Appendix F for more details on these weapons).

Another concept of current interest is the “all-weather precision strike of multiple targets.” This concept is realized by employing a wide-area scanner, high-resolution synthetic aperture radar (SAR) with ground moving-target indicator/tracking∗ (GMTI/T) mode, GPS/INS reference system augmented with automatic target recognition (ATR), a high-resolution targeting forward-looking infrared radar (FLIR), and a data-link connectivity to a helmet-mounted cueing system (HMCS). In order to reduce GPS errors, GPS relative targeting is used. By utilizing newly developed targeting algorithms and employing radar modes for measuring the aircraft’s height above the target, the system will be able to generate precise GPS target coordinates. By using a relative mode of GPS, some of the absolute GPS errors will cancel out, greatly increasing weapon accuracy.

At this point, a few remarks regarding the “Precision Airborne Target Locator for GPS/INS AG Weapons” are in order. The Precision Airborne Target Locator combines a low-cost active (gated) TV with a laser rangefinder/designator to provide positive identification and precision location of fixed and movable targets at five times the range of today’s targeting FLIR systems. This system will yield accuracies on the order of 3 meters, which is compatible with the lethality CEP (circular error probable) of INS/GPS guided munitions, at ranges out to 25 nm (46.3 km).
