(1) The computation of command signals, such as those given by (6.194), is most simply carried out in computer coordinates, whereas, depending on the type of autopilot used, the missile may respond to commands by rotating about instantaneous missile axes. If that is the case and if a coordinate resolution between computer axes and missile axes is to be avoided, the computer axis system should be chosen so that it lies in the vicinity of the nominal missile axis system during the latter part of the powered flight. This is not a critical matter, since the commanded rates during this part of the flight are very small. Experience has shown that $2 0 ^ { \circ }$ or $3 0 ^ { \circ }$ of difference between corresponding axes in the two systems can be tolerated without noticeable difficulty.   
(2) A second factor is that the azimuth orientation of the computer axis system can be chosen so that the initial $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ vector is contained in one of the computer coordinate planes, which we shall call the xz-plane. That is, the computer axis system can be chosen so that the initial condition on $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ is zero, or at least very small. In that case, $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ may well be maintained small throughout the flight. In fact, there is some advantage in controlling $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ to be null throughout the flight. For this purpose, the cross product control in yaw is not used at all; rather, a yaw rate command of the following form may be employed:

$$\frac {d \psi_ {c}}{d t} = K _ {1} \mathbf {V} _ {g} - K _ {2} \mathbf {a} _ {T y}, \tag {6.195}$$

where $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 }$ are gain factors. This method of yaw control commands a yaw rate proportional to $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ in such a sense as to reduce $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ . The purpose of the $K _ { 2 } \mathbf { a } _ { T \mathrm { y } }$ term is to provide the lead, which is required to stabilize the yaw guidance control loop.
