Synthesis of sample data homing and command guidance systems is also of particular importance, as will be discussed later. Classical servo theory has been used to design both hydraulic and electric seeker servos that are compatible with requirements for gyro-stabilization and fast response. Furthermore, pitch, yaw, and roll autopilots have been designed to meet such problems as Mach variation, altitude variation, induced roll moments, instrument lags, body-bending modes, guidance response, and guidance stability. Although classical theory is still applicable to autopilots, research efforts are continually made to apply modern control theory to conventional autopilot design and adaptive autopilot design.

Optimal control and estimation theory is commonly used in the design of advanced guidance systems. Specifically, since the late 1960s and early 1970s, considerable research has been devoted to applying modern optimal control and estimation theory in the development of optimized advanced tactical and strategic missile guidance systems. In particular, this technology has been used to develop tracking algorithms that extract the maximum amount of information about a target trajectory from homing sensor data and to derive guidance and control laws that optimize the use of this information in directing the missile toward the selected target. Performance improvements attainable with optimized systems over conventional guidance and control techniques are most significant against airborne maneuverable targets, where target acceleration information and rapid guidance system response time are required to achieve acceptable accuracy, in minimum time. Historically, surface-to-air missiles were among the first missiles to implement digital guidance systems. Such missiles may employ command guidance whereby all digital computation is done on the ground with guidance commands telemetered to the missile. Today, the ease of availability of microprocessors makes digital processing increasingly attractive for small, lightweight air-to-air missiles. Recently developed neural network algorithms and fuzzy logic theory serve as possible approaches to solving highly nonlinear flight control problems. Thus, the use of fuzzy logic control is motivated by the need to deal with nonlinear flight control and performance robustness problems.
