Nonfuzed warheads are referred to as penetrator warheads or kinetic energy penetrators and cause damage only when direct contact is made with the target. Penetrator warheads are optimized to attack deeply buried and hardened targets. The penetrator class of warheads includes (a) armor-piercing projectiles, and (b) armor-piercing incendiary projectiles. Fuzing may be analyzed with a simple glitter∗ point methodology or in a highly detailed manner including a physically extended target, antenna patterns, fuze processing, and seeker/guidance impacts. As is the case for any design, a simulation method must be used to model the end game. For example, the model must simulate sensor lock-on and tracking, missile aerodynamics, propulsion, guidance, and control. Furthermore, the model must compute the probability of kill $( P _ { k } )$ , miss distance, range of intercept, terminal approach angles, and missile time of flight for, say, a specified surface-to-air missile system against a single airborne target. When the missile warhead detonates, the simulation models the distribution and speed of warhead fragments and determines kill probability based on target attitude, vulnerable area, and blast. The simulation model inputs include missile and radar type, target/aircraft signature, target vulnerability, target flight-path, clutter/multipath data, and terrain. Furthermore, the model for target/threat system combinations, as dictated by different scenarios, generates IR threat probability of kill data.

Commonly, and as mentioned above, the end game simulation models the target vulnerability used to compute probability of kill and the missile warhead subsystem. However, before the $P _ { k }$ evaluation is made, the warhead detonation point must be determined. This point is found by examining the target’s glitter points until one of the glitter points satisfies the criteria for fuzing the warhead. Once this occurs, there is a short delay followed by the warhead explosion and $P _ { k }$ evaluation. Two different methods are available for $P _ { k }$ evaluation: (1) The method by which detailed blast/fragmentation computes the fuzing based on target glitter points and evaluates
