The guidance software modules provide the command signals used by the autopilot modules to control vehicle heading, crosstrack, and altitude. The guidance modules are (1) route definition module, (2) lateral guidance module, and (3) vertical guidance module. The route definition module provides (1) launch turn control to permit launch in a direction away from the first waypoint, (2) calculation of unit vectors in a tangent plane coordinate frame for use in the lateral guidance module (which will be discussed below), (3) data control logic to sequence through profile segment data and waypoint definition data, and (4) control of logic flags that initiate turns to change from one mission segment (or leg) to the next.

The lateral guidance module calculates the bank angle commands used by the autopilot modules in controlling vehicle heading and crosstrack position. In particular, the lateral guidance module provides bank angle commands for steering to the ground track defined by waypoints. Near a waypoint, the desired path (i.e., the reference for determining lateral displacement and heading) is a circular arc transition between the two directions defined by adjacent great circle path segments, as illustrated in Figure 7.3. To recapitulate, the cruise missile is directed along the proper course between waypoints by the lateral steering system. The steering plane, that is, a plane containing the two waypoints and the Earth’s center, defines the course between two waypoints. The perpendicular distance between the air vehicle position and the steering plane is the crosstrack error, and its time derivative is the crosstrack error rate.
