The solution of these equations will depend on the value of time (t), missile position, and yaw angle $( \psi )$ , which can be incremented by an amount based on a weighted average of the previously computed derivatives for this time step. These derivatives, in turn, depend on the current time, position, velocity, attitude, and velocity-to-begained. Strictly speaking, however, these functional relationships are valid only after the start of guidance control $( t = t _ { c }$ , an input). Prior to this time, the specific force $( \mathbf { a } _ { T } )$ also depends on the angular acceleration $( d ^ { 2 } \theta / d t ^ { 2 } )$ and $( d ^ { 2 } \psi / { d t } ^ { 2 } )$ , which is determined by $( d \theta / d t ) , \theta , ( d \psi / d t )$ , and $\psi$ , with $\theta$ and $\psi$ satisfying second-order differential equations. The process of incrementing the variables and recomputing derivatives continues until a discontinuous change in any derivative is indicated. Note also that in addition to “cut-off,” it is possible to terminate the powered trajectory at a selected value of time or second-stage burnout by an appropriate choice of inputs.

For any simulation process that may be used by the missile designer, initial conditions must be provided. For instance, the powered-flight simulation is started at the nominal time $( t = t _ { c } ,$ , an input) of first-stage motor ignition. At this time, the missile has nominally flown up the launch vertical and is at ground level (i.e., at the surface of the Earth, where $R = R _ { E } )$ with a vertical attitude, zero attitude rate, and initial vertical velocity with respect to the Earth $( V _ { M v o } )$ . That is, the nominal initial conditions are

$$X (t _ {o}) = R _ {E} \sin \alpha_ {X},Y (t _ {o}) = 0, \tag {6.229a}Z (t _ {o}) = - R _ {E} \cos \alpha_ {X},V _ {M X} (t _ {o}) = V _ {M v o} \sin \alpha_ {X},V _ {M Y} (t _ {o}) = 0, \tag {6.229b}V _ {M Z} \left(t _ {o}\right) = - V _ {M v o} \cos \alpha_ {X},\theta (t _ {o}) = 9 0 ^ {\circ} - \alpha_ {X},\psi (t _ {o}) = 0 ^ {\circ}, \tag {6.229c}\frac {d \theta (t _ {o})}{d t} = 0,\frac {d \psi (t _ {o})}{d t} = 0, \tag {6.229d}$$

where $R _ { E }$ is the radius of the Earth and $V _ { M v o }$ is an input. The velocity of the launch point with respect to inertial space is given by

$$V _ {L P X} = V _ {L P} \sin \psi \cos \alpha_ {X},V _ {L P Y} = V _ {L P} \cos \alpha_ {X},V _ {L P Z} = V _ {L P} \sin \psi \sin \alpha_ {X}, \tag {6.230}$$
