While effective defenses against radar-guided missiles have been developed, the ability to defeat IR missiles has not been as effective. Aircraft like the C-17 produce huge heat signatures. As a result, they are threatened by the hundreds of thousands of cheap, very mobile SA-14/-16/-18-type missiles on the world market that could be operated clandestinely within a few miles of an airfield. About half of the aircraft lost in combat over the last two decades have been lost to heat-seeking missiles. Because the U.S. has been so effective in foiling radar-guided missiles, foreign manufacturers are modifying their radar missiles with EO and IR sensors to avoid detection. The new technology is expected to aid in the development of future self-defense systems for both manned and unmanned aircraft. Today, all the IR countermeasure systems are open-loop, which means they only transmit. A closed-loop system, on the other hand, both transmits and receives laser signals. It uses the laser in a radar-like function as the heart of a closed-loop operation capable of defending against a variety of missiles. Like many other new weapons and sensors, a key technology is an onboard processor capable of performing billions of operations per second. Such speed is critical, given a SAM’s flight time of a few seconds when the aircraft are at low altitude.

Typically, warheads come in two basic categories: (1) fuzed, and (2) nonfuzed. Fuzed warheads contain a high-explosive charge and are detonated at or in the vicinity of the target. The fuze package consists of a safety and arming device to keep the weapon safe until it is deployed and clear of friendly forces, a detonator to initiate the HE charge detonation, a device that senses the presence of a target, known as the target detection device (TDD), and a logic circuit that initiates detonation at the proper time.
