The IR seeker (or tracker) typically consists of the following components: (1) a gimbaled platform that contains the optical components for collecting and focusing the target radiation, (2) an IR sensor that converts the incident radiation into one or more electrical signals, (3) the electronics for processing the sensor output signals and converting them to guidance commands, (4) a servo and stabilization system to control the position of the tracking platform, (5) IR cooling system, and (6) a protective covering, the dome (also known as irdome). The infrared radiation incident on the seeker dome passes through the dome and strikes the primary mirror, which in turn redirects the incident radiation to the secondary mirror. This mirror then focuses the radiation on a spinning reticule or chopper. The reticle periodically interrupts or modulates the incoming radiation or signal for the purpose of target discrimination and tracking. The IR image processor (item 3 above) is needed to provide a twodimensional image with target and background. The image processor consists of a head assembly, scanners, IR optics, detector, cryogenic system, preamplifier/amplifier, and display. An infrared guided missile, such as the Sidewinder, is similar in many respects to other aerodynamic tactical missiles, except for the seeker. These seekers are self-contained and need no specialized carrier (or launch) aircraft equipment (with the exception, perhaps, of the cooling system), resulting in a lower missile cost. Some passive IR systems may use more than one detector element to cover different portions of the infrared band, thus enhancing the tracking capability; these are referred to as multiple color systems. When detection occurs, the tracking process is initiated, provided that the tracking platform is uncaged. Therefore, if the tracker is continuously and automatically tracking the target, the seeker is said to be locked on. It should be pointed out that when the guidance system is in the IR detection mode, the signal detected by the IR detector may be contaminated by disturbance noise; this should be considered in designing the system. Once the missile seeker locks onto the target, the range can be computed. This range will depend on the minimum signal-tonoise ratio required by the sensor for target lock-on. Mathematically, the range can be expressed in the form
