Biased Proportional Navigation (BPN): Biased PN is another variant that has been suggested in order to improve the efficiency of the PPN. Because of the introduction of an extra parameter (i.e., rate bias), such a biased PN may be made to achieve a given intercept with less control effort. This is an important advantage for operations outside the atmosphere where lateral control forces are generated by the operation of control rockets, and the total control effort (i.e., integrated lateral force) determines the fuel requirement of the control engine(s). The linear theory is extended to the treatment of the BPN case, and the performance of BPN is optimized to obtain the optimum bias value. In its simplest form, the lateral commanded acceleration $a _ { n }$ of the pursuer under BPN is obtained as [12], [24]

$$a _ {n} = N V _ {m} \left[ \left(\frac {d \lambda}{d t}\right) - \left(\frac {d \lambda_ {b}}{d t}\right) \right],$$

where $d \lambda _ { b } / d t$ is the rate bias on the LOS turn rate. Note that the BPN guidance law reduces to the standard PN (i.e., (4.24) when $d \lambda _ { b } / d t = 0 )$ .

True Proportional Navigation (TPN): In traditional TPN, the commanded acceleration is applied in a direction normal to the LOS, and its magnitude proportional to the LOS rate. A modified TPN has also been suggested, in which the commanded acceleration is applied in a direction normal to the LOS and its magnitude is proportional to the product of LOS rate and the closing speed between pursuer and target. For nonmaneuvering targets, a closed-form solution is available for the general value of N . Moreover, in this case the intercept is restricted to situations where the launch conditions are within the circle of capture.

Generalized Proportional Navigation (GPN): Here the commanded acceleration is applied in a direction with a fixed bias angle in the direction normal to the LOS and normal to the relative velocity between pursuer and target [23].

Augmented Proportional Navigation (APN): This guidance law, which can be used for maneuvering targets, includes a term proportional to the estimate of the target acceleration in the commanded missile acceleration. Augmented proportional navigation is treated in more detail in Section 4.6.

Ideal Proportional Navigation (IPN): Is similar to GPN.
