# Target Maneuver Model

Assume that three random processes are involved in the target maneuver description: (1) the normal force $F _ { n }$ (perpendicular to the velocity vector v), (2) the longitudinal force $F _ { v }$ along v (which models the thrust and drag variations, and (3) the roll rate ω. Assume now that all three processes are exponentially correlated, and generated by the following differential equations (see also Sections 4.3–4.5). Thus,

$$\frac {d F _ {n}}{d t} = - (F _ {n} / \tau_ {n}) + w _ {n}, \tag {4.90a}\frac {d F _ {v}}{d t} = - (F _ {v} / \tau_ {v}) + w _ {v}, \tag {4.90b}\frac {d \omega}{d t} = - (\omega / \tau_ {\omega}) + w _ {\omega}, \tag {4.90c}$$

where the $w ' s$ are white noises. The roll rate parameter ω is essentially a rate of change in the acceleration, and as such will probably never be estimated with any great accuracy. For this reason, an assumption of a white noise ω may yield results that are just as good as those resulting from the above model. However, it is probably essential that rolling be modeled in some fashion, in order to acknowledge the possibility of nonplanar target maneuvers. Otherwise, one could not expect the estimator to accurately track a maneuver such as a barrel roll (which, incidentally, would probably be an excellent maneuver against which to test different intercept schemes). If we define roll angle as the integral of $\omega ,$ the above model allows the rms roll angle to increase without limit. This is a desirable property for the model, since it is quite possible for the target aircraft to roll through many revolutions in one direction without ever returning to zero roll angle. This fact would not be properly accounted for if the roll angle itself were assumed to be a zero-mean process. The target jerk model mentioned above can be represented by an autocorrelation function such as [20]

$$r _ {j} (\tau) = E \{j (t) j (t + \tau) \} = \sigma_ {j} ^ {2} e ^ {- \alpha | \tau |},$$

where $\sigma _ { j } ^ { 2 }$ is the variance of the target jerk and α is the reciprocal of the jerk time constant.
