Note that here we define a guidance law as the measurement, computation, and control synthesis required to place a space vehicle at designated terminal conditions. The measurement z is processed through a linear filter (estimator) to provide the best estimate of the actual position and velocity of a vehicle (i.e., vehicle’s state x) with respect to some reference coordinate system. The computational procedure consists of the mathematical processing of internal stored information describing the desired terminal point with the measured data to generate or synthesize a control signal u acceptable to the control system. The mechanization of the computational block of Figure 6.30 can be accomplished in two ways, thus dividing current guidance laws into explicit and implicit philosophies. Moreover, the form in which the terminal point is stored within the computer represents the basic difference between these two philosophies. For more details on the control aspects of guidance, see Section 4.8.

Delta Guidance: As stated above, the explicit guidance equations are more complicated from the standpoint of the airborne guidance mechanization, but require a minimum of precomputation (i.e., targeting). On the other hand, the delta guidance technique requirements are the reverse of those of the explicit guidance. Specifically, the delta guidance equations are developed in terms of a power series expansion about a nominal trajectory.

In Sections 6.4.2 and 6.5 we noted that the required or correlated velocity vector $\mathbf { V } _ { R }$ consists of two or three components. Consequently, for the general threecomponent case, each component, that is, each of $V _ { R x } , V _ { R y }$ , and $V _ { R z }$ , is a function of the four variables x, y, z, and t. Thus, they are also implicit functions of the guidance constraints themselves.

The delta guidance equations are commonly developed in terms of a power series expansion about the nominal trajectory. In essence, coefficients must be determined for each expansion point selected, and the three expansions or components of V(R, t), that is, $V _ { R x } , V _ { R y }$ , and $V _ { R z }$ , would be time varying. Consider the expansion point to be the nominal burnout point $( x _ { o } , y _ { o } , z _ { o } , t )$ . We can write three expansions similar to $V _ { R x }$ as [9]
