The Tomahawk is a long-range cruise missile for both surface and submarine launch against both surface ship and land targets. The Tomahawk was subsequently adapted for land launch as the U.S. Gryphon ground-launch cruise missile (GLCM). Navy nuclear-powered attack submarines (SSNs) fired 26% of the Tomahawk cruise missiles used against Serbia in Operation Allied Force. The SSN attack submarine can strike preemptively to prevent WMD deployment, or punitively and overwhelmingly in response to an enemy’s use of WMD. Thus, the attack submarine of the future is a very credible deterrent to WMD. The guidance system of the Tomahawk consists of an inertial system updated by TERCOM (terrain contour matching), also known as TERCOM-aided inertial navigation system (TAINS). For more details on TERCOM, the reader is directed to Section 7.4. Another type of aiding used by some versions of the Tomahawk cruise missile is the digital scene-mapping area correlator (DSMAC). DSMAC is used as the missile nears the target. Target map updating involves relatively simple DSMAC reprogramming. Either Tomahawk version can fly preprogrammed evasive flight paths between guidance updates. Specifically, a “flex-targeting” upgrade that permits retargeting during flight has been successfully tested. The antiship Tomahawk is fitted with a modified Harpoon active radar seeker, flying a preprogrammed profile at sea-skimming height for most of its flight. Consequently, when the missile nears the target’s estimated position, the active radar seeker takes over. In addition to the conventional Tomahawk, the Navy is pursuing development/production of the Tactical Tomahawk (or Block 4). After several successful flight tests, demonstrating the system’s basic performance, the Navy plans full-rate production of the missile for the third quarter of 2004.
