Other countries are also engaged in the development of HMDs. For instance, Sextant Avionique HMD systems are used by French pilots to engage medium-range targets up to 50 miles (80 km) with the IR-guided Matra Magic 2 and advanced Mica AIMs. These IR-guided missiles have $5 0 ~ g / 9 0 ^ { \circ }$ turn capability for off-boresight (in either direction off the aircraft nose) shots using the HMD. The helmet-mounted display is fully integrated with the aircraft’s (i.e., the Rafale and Dassault Mirage 2000-5s) avionics systems. Russian AIMs such as the R-73E (NATO code AA-11 Archer) and AAM-AE (NATO code AA-12 Adder) also use high off-boresight and HMD technology.

Nevertheless, the JSF radar’s versatility in providing tracking, jamming, communications, and several other functions at virtually the same time is made possible by the AESA radar. The advanced AESA radar can spot air-to-air targets at 90 miles. The JSF will have no HUD. Instead, data will be projected on a pilot’s helmet visor. In addition, the radar already has a moving-target-indicator mode that is expected to locate ground targets at about 50 mi. $( J S F ^ { \prime } { \bf s }$ basic mission is air-to-ground strikes).

Finally, we note that the electronic imaging system (EIS) plays an important role in the HMD. The EIS design uses a synthetic vision approach to expand the pilot’s visual capability and situation awareness (SA) beyond the limits of current aircraft windows and HUDs. EIS provides an external image on the HUD that corresponds to the pilot’s direction of view.
