Another type of strategic missile is the now canceled USAF’s SRAM II missile. The SRAM (Short-Range Attack Missile) II was a standoff, air-launched, inertially guided strategic missile. As designed, the missile had the capability to cover a large target accessibility footprint when launched with a wide range of initial conditions. The missile was designed to be powered by a two-pulse solid-fuel rocket motor with a variable intervening coast time. The guidance algorithm was based on modern control linear quadratic regulator (LQR) theory, with the current missile state (a vector consisting of position, velocity, and other parameters) provided by a strapdown inertial navigation system. The SRAM II trajectory was dependent on the relative locations of the launch point and target, as well as the flight envelope characteristics of the carrier (i.e., aircraft).

Still another class of strategic missiles is the nuclear ALCM (Air-Launched Cruise Missile) designated as AGM-86B. The ALCM uses an inertial navigation system together with terrain contour matching (TERCOM) for its guidance. A later version of the ALCM, known as the CALCM (Conventionally Armed Air-Launched Cruise Missile) and designated AGM-86C, uses an INS integrated with the GPS and/or TERCOM (for more information, see Chapter 7).

It should be pointed out that there is still another class of missiles, namely, radiation missiles. In radiation missiles, radiation energy is transmitted as either particles or waves through space at the speed of light. Radiation is capable of inflicting damage when it is transmitted toward the target either in a continuous beam or as one or more high-intensity, short-duration pulses. Weapons utilizing radiation are referred to as directed high-energy weapons (DHEW). These are as follows:

1. Coherent Electromagnetic Flux: The coherent electromagnetic flux is produced by a high-energy laser (HEL). The HEL generates and focuses electromagnetic energy into an intense concentration or beam of coherent waves that is pointed at the target. This beam of energy is then held on the target until the absorbed energy causes sufficient damage to the target, resulting in eventual destruction. On the other hand, radiation from a laser that is delivered in a very short period of time with a high intensity is referred to as a pulse-laser beam. (For more details on high-energy weapons see Section 6.9.)
