For those readers interested in aerodynamics, it should be mentioned that an experimental flexible-wing jet made its first flight in November 2002, from NASA’s Dryden Flight Research Center at Edwards AFB, California. During an hour-long test, the modified F/A-18 took off, climbed to 30,000 ft., and flew over a test range northeast of Edwards AFB. The first flight followed a three-year period of modification and ground tests at the NASA facility. Officials from AF Research Laboratory, Boeing’s Phantom Works, and NASA Dryden collaborated on the research effort, called the Active Aeroelastic Wing (AAW) program. The project intends to demonstrate improved aircraft roll control through aerodynamically induced wing twist on a full-scale manned supersonic aircraft. The new wing technology is important to the AF because it represents a new approach to designing wings that are more, structurally and aerodynamically from a control effectiveness standpoint. With AAW, leading and trailing edge control surfaces are deflected, which causes a change in the aerodynamic pressure distribution on the wing’s surface, causing it to warp or twist. The surfaces are deflected such that the wing twists into a shape that helps the wing perform better than it would if it did not twist at all.

Moreover, AAW is applicable to a wide variety of future air vehicle concepts that are under study and not only to supersonic flight. While the technology was conceived during a supersonic fighter aircraft design study, aircraft that fly subsonically can also experience a high degree of wing deformation, and therefore could benefit from the AAW design approach. Since AAW exploits wing flexibility, it also is viewed as a first step toward future “morphing” wings that can sense their environment and adapt their shape to perform optimally in a wide range of flight conditions.

The test-bed aircraft was modified with additional actuators, a split leading edge flap actuation system, and thinner skins on a portion of the upper wing surface that will allow the outer wing panels to twist up to 5◦. With the first flight completed, the modified aircraft will undergo 30 to 40 flights over a three to four month period. NASA expects the second phase of the research flights with new control software to begin in mid to late 2003.
