where $C _ { A }$ is the axial force coefficient, which is a function of Mach number, $\delta _ { p } , \delta _ { y }$ , and altitude (with respect to the earth) of the missile body. The other primary force acting along the $X _ { b } – \mathbf { b o d y }$ axis is the thrust. Thrust is defined as the forward force produced by the propulsion system to sustain the aircraft in flight. Sometimes, thrust is expressed in the same manner as drag and other aerodynamic forces. However, it is not usually convenient to do so, since the thrust is often constant or is some unknown function of altitude, whereas the other aerodynamic forces are not. Typically, a missile has two modes of thrusting: (1) the boost phase, and (2) the sustain phase (a boost– sustain mode is also used. See Sections 3.3.1 and 4.5 (Table 4.5)). The boost phase is the first stage of missile flight. During this phase, the missile is propelled from rest to slightly supersonic speeds by a high-powered rocket engine. The sustain phase is the second stage of missile propulsion, which begins when the missile is traveling close to the speed of sound (i.e., Mach 1). The missile booster is an auxiliary propulsion system that imparts thrust to the missile during the initial phase of flight. It generally consists of a solid rocket motor and an attaching device. A solid rocket motor is best suited for this purpose because of its simple construction and operation and its ability to develop a high thrust in a short time. The missile sustainer, on the other hand, is usually a ramjet engine, which allows a greater missile range than would a rocket engine. Often, the booster and sustainer burn simultaneously for a short time prior to jettison of the booster, in order to ensure a reasonably smooth transition to the sustain phase.

Prior to the sustain phase, the missile sustainer is open, allowing airflow that will exert a negative thrust (i.e., an axial drag force of $( - C _ { A } q S )$ , since $F _ { A } = C _ { A } q S )$ . Typically, the total thrust is expressed as

$$T = T _ {\text {boost}} + T _ {\text {sust}}, \tag {3.44}$$
