# 5.4 The Navigation/Weapon Delivery System

The navigation/weapon delivery system (NWDS) is the heart of a fighter and/or attack aircraft. Attack aircraft are specifically designed for close air support and interdiction missions. They have been designed to incorporate a continuous solution navigation and weapon delivery system for increased bombing accuracy. The NWDS continuously performs the vital computations required for greatly increased delivery accuracy, and for maneuvering freedom throughout the navigation to a target and the attack, airto-ground (or surface) and air-to-air weapon release, pull-up, and safe return phases of the mission. For example, in order to perform a successful tactical mission, the fighter must have accurate reference information for controlling the vehicle, navigating over the surface of the Earth, and providing inertial inputs to the weapon delivery system.

Moreover, the navigation and weapon delivery system not only provides the pilot with an impressive number of options during weapon delivery, but also relieves him during an attack run from a compulsory straight-path approach to the target (precalculated dive angle, airspeed, altitude, and pipper-on-target), which considerably reduces vulnerability to enemy fire. The system permits a highly flexible attack envelope, augmenting the pilot’s ability to find targets, maneuver when necessary, and reattack promptly when required. The aforementioned flexibility is made possible through the NWDC digital fire control computer (FCC) in conjunction with the projected multifunction displays, the wide-angle head-up display (HUD), forward-looking radar and/or fire-control radar, stores (i.e., weapons) management, inertial navigation system, radar altimeter, and projected map, if available. The multimode fire control radar provides multiple (e.g., 10) target track-while-scan information as well as singletarget search, providing tracking capability in both lookdown and look-up encounters.
