Bypassing temporarily the question of mechanization of the Q-matrix, it is seen that in all other respects, the computation of $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ by means of (6.178) is relatively simple to instrument. Since the accelerometers give directly the time integral of aT , it is necessary only to determine the added contribution of the integral of $Q \mathbf { V } _ { g }$ in order to obtain $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ . For a typical intermediate range ballistic missile (IRBM), this integration may be performed by feeding back a corrective torque to the accelerometers. Therefore, the output of the accelerometers is $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ itself. The differential equation (6.178) lends itself to digital instrumentation. By concentrating on the direct computation of the velocityto-be-gained, the double integration of acceleration to obtain position is avoided, as is the necessity for a g computer. In effect, most of the mathematical difficulties of the problem are in the determination of the Q-matrix. This is essentially a ground-based computation, however, since the resulting data can be readily approximated in a form suited to airborne instrumentation. In a sense, the computing scheme considered here suffers in presentation from the fact that the variables to be mechanized are not the familiar position and velocity of the missile with respect to some readily visualized set of coordinates. In addition, the Q-matrix, which provides the key to the system, is not a simple or readily computed expression. In fact, this scheme requires fairly elaborate precomputed data. The resultant simplicity in airborne instrumentation, however, appears to more than make up for these deficiencies.

We will now derive the fundamental equation (6.178). At a given instant of time t , let the correlated velocity vector ${ \bf V } _ { c }$ and the missile position vector r be specified. In terms of these data, the target location vector $\mathbf { r } _ { T }$ and the time of free flight $t _ { f f }$ are uniquely determined and may be readily computed. The quantities $\mathbf { r } _ { T }$ and $t _ { f f }$ can be expressed in the functional form

$$\mathbf {r} _ {T} = \mathbf {r} _ {T} (\mathbf {V} _ {c}, \mathbf {r}), \tag {6.183}t _ {f f} = t _ {f f} (\mathbf {V} _ {c}, \mathbf {r}), \tag {6.184}$$
