From Figure 3.12, we note that the typical Sparrow missile uses wing control with tail fins for stability and aerodynamics. The Phoenix (or Falcon) missile uses tail control, via fins with fixed wings. The typical Sidewinder uses fixed tail wings, with movable nose fins (or canards). We note here that the type and size of airframe is strongly dependent on the guidance characteristics, motor size, and warhead size. It should be noted that situations do arise, however, in which some of these choices are dictated: for example, to use a motor existing in the inventory, or to use an existing airframe. Since typically these items were designed for some other threat, and with other system considerations, the system design problem focuses on obtaining the most out of these designs.

The present discussion will be restricted to the tail-controlled configuration, which has no downwash interference from the control surfaces. If the autopilot pitch and yaw axes are each 45◦ from the planes of adjacent control surfaces, then all four control surfaces are deflected equally by the pitch (or yaw) autopilot. However, in some applications it is preferable to put the autopilot axes in the planes of the control surfaces, so that only two surfaces are deflected by the pitch autopilot and two by the yaw autopilot. It is apparent that the tail-controlled airframe has a tail normal force opposite to the direction of the desired maneuver acceleration, which causes a small initial airframe acceleration in the wrong direction. Analytically, this effect manifests as a right-half-plane zero in the transfer function from the control surface deflection, δ, to a lateral (i.e., normal to the missile’s longitudinal axis) acceleration $a _ { n }$ at the missile $c g$ , thus tending to limit the speed of response of the guidance system. However, it is very desirable to have the roll autopilot command all four surfaces, so that the induced roll moments from “shadowing” of the control surfaces at high angles of attack will be minimized. In most cases, the control surfaces exert only aerodynamic forces, although it is possible to augment these at high altitudes by reaction jets embedded in the control surfaces.
