LAIRCM: LAIRCM, which autonomously detects, tracks, and then jams IR threat missiles, successfully completed tests conducted at the White Sands Missile Range, NM, aerial cable facility. During the tests, missiles were fired at a carrier, holding the LAIRCM system and four heat sources in an orientation emulating a C-17 during takeoff. The live-missile-fire tests follow extensive laser tests conducted earlier in the year 2002 at the AF Electronic Warfare Evaluation Simulator at Fort Worth, Texas. According to a 1999 U.S. Transportation Command report to Congress, the vulnerability of its large, slow-flying aircraft to the increasing shoulder-fired surface-to-air missile (i.e., the Stinger) capability is their number-one force-protection concern. Consequently, high on their priority list is fielding a large-aircraft IRCM system that can counter this threat. It is estimated that more than 500,000 shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles exist and are available on the worldwide market. AMC flies more than 10,000 missions a year into locations where groups armed with these types of weapons could pose a significant risk. Therefore, the need for such a system is obvious.

Transport aircraft are especially vulnerable because they present a slow, predictable target that can be easily “seen” and tracked by an IR missile’s sensor. That means that an IR missile can go after a larger aircraft with its corresponding larger engines more easily and from a longer range. To counter this threat, large aircraft have to put out a jamming energy that is larger than the aircraft signature; that is, it has to present a brighter target in order to blind and confuse the missile’s IR seeker. LAIRCM is an active countermeasure that defeats the threat missile guidance system by directing a high-intensity modulated laser beam into the missile seeker. In addition, the LAIRCM system automatically counters advanced IR missile systems with no action required by the crew. The pilot will simply be informed that a threat missile was detected and jammed.
