In ballistic missiles (in particular ICBMs), rocket propulsion is employed to accelerate the missile to a position of high altitude and speed. This places it on a trajectory that meets certain guidance specifications in order to carry a warhead, or other payload, to a preselected target. An operational ballistic missile may acquire speeds up to 15,000 mph (24,140 km/hr) or better at heights of several hundred miles. After boost burnout (BBO), or engine shutoff, the missile payload travels along a free-fall trajectory to its destination; its motion follows, approximately, the laws of Keplerian motion. A special type of onboard navigation/guidance computer is used in ballistic missiles in which the platform (e.g., in gimbaled systems) maintains its alignment in space for the few minutes during which the inertial system is operating to launch the warhead. The computer is fed the velocity and position that the warhead ought to achieve when the motors are cut off. Consequently, the actual positions and velocities are recorded from the information taken from the inertial platform, and by comparing the two, a correction may be passed to the control system of the missile. Thus, the correction ensures that the motors are cut off when the warhead is traveling at a velocity and from a position that will enable it to hit the same target as if it had followed exactly a planned (or programmed) flight path or trajectory. The planned path takes into account the change of gravity due to the forward movement of the missile, the change in the force of gravity due to upward movement of the missile, and the Earth’s tilt, rotation, and Coriolis acceleration. However, the planned path may involve a good deal of calculation, and as a result it may not be easy to alter the aiming point by more than a small amount without a completely new plan. It was mentioned earlier that part of the guidance of a ballistic missile occurs before launch. Moreover, during the powered portion of the flight, the objective of the guidance system is to place the missile on a trajectory with flight conditions that are appropriate for the desired target. This is equivalent to steering the missile to a burn-out point that is uniquely related to the velocity and flight-path angle for the specified target range.
