We will now discuss briefly the radar noise statistics. For a typical radar receiver, the thermal noise power that is generated by the random thermal motion of conduction electrons in the input stages limits the signal that can be detected. The available thermal noise power is a function of the temperature $T$ and the bandwidth $B _ { n }$ of the receiver, and is commonly expressed in the form [10]

$$P _ {n} = k T B _ {n} \quad [ \text {watts} ], \tag {3.97}$$

where

$$k = \text { Boltzmann's constant } = 1. 3 8 0 5 4 \times 1 0 ^ {- 2 5} J / K,T = 2 9 0 K, \text { reference (or room) temperature. }$$

(At room temperature, $P _ { n } = - 1 1 4 \mathrm { d B m }$ ; dB relative to a milliwatt for a receiver with a 1-MHz bandwidth.)

An ideal receiver would add no noise to the signal to be amplified, so that the input and output SNR would be the same. However, actual receivers add some noise of their own, and the noise figure F , defined for a linear system as

$$F = (S _ {i n} / N _ {i n}) / (S _ {o u t} / N _ {o u t}), \tag {3.98}$$

is a measure of how much the receiver degrades the input SNR. Additional losses, such as scanning, beam shape, integration, and collapsing in the radar system can be defined that further degrade the received signal power. If we lump all losses together and designate them by L, then the radar equation can be expressed in terms of the SNR as follows:

$$S N R = \left(P _ {t} G ^ {2} \lambda^ {2} \sigma\right) / (4 \pi) ^ {3} R ^ {4} k T B _ {n} F L. \tag {3.99}$$

The SNR plays a major role in the detection and tracking capabilities of a radar system. For instance, during the operation of any radar system, the goal of the radar operator is to be able to distinguish target (e.g., aircraft) echoes from the noise.
