A passive homing system (Figure 4.2, bottom), one that is designed to detect the target by means of natural emanations or radiation such as heat waves, light waves, and sound waves. Thus, passive homing guidance systems are based on the use of the characteristic radiation from the target itself as a means of attracting the missile, for example, as in infrared homing systems. In other words, the target acts as a lure. Regardless of the type of intercept guidance technique used, the missile must have sufficient maneuver capability (pull sufficient $g ^ { \prime } \mathbf { s } )$ to intercept the target within the lethal distance of the warhead. At lower altitudes, the airframe capability is not a limiting factor because it can generally execute g’s in excess of the autopilot limit, say 25 g’s. At higher altitudes, especially in a snap-up attack, the airframe maneuver limit is usually the parameter that determines the launch boundary and/or terminal accuracy.

The Sidewinder is an example of a passive infrared homing guided missile. The infrared (IR) homing devices are suitable for use against such targets as mills, factories, bridges, railroad yards, jet aircraft, troop concentrations, ships, or any other targets that present large temperature differentials with respect to their surroundings (see also Section 3.4.4). The actual temperature of the target is not important, but the difference in temperature between the target and its surroundings is the factor that enables the heat seeker to identify the target against the background. It is important to keep in mind, however, that all homing systems are subject to limitations in use. For example, the heat seeker requires a clear, relatively moisture-free atmosphere, and could be led astray by countermeasures such as fires set to guide it away from its intended target. The components of homing guidance systems are essentially the same in all types of homing, but there are differences in location and methods of using the components. Figure 4.2 illustrates the various forms of missile homing guidance.

A fundamental requirement of any homing system is that the scanning sensor (or seeker) be accurately aligned with respect to the longitudinal axis of the missile in which it is installed. The controls are actuated so that its longitudinal axis is always in line with the target.
