# 6.5.4 Control During the Atmospheric Phase

The powered phase of a ballistic missile is the most complex, because of the exit through the atmosphere. The trajectory begins with the missile rising vertically for a few seconds. During this time, it is usually rolled to the proper heading. Subsequently, the vehicle executes its pitch maneuver (see also Section 6.5.3). After a short transient, called transition turn, a gravity or zero lift turn (the concept of gravity turn will be discussed shortly) begins and continues until the missile has effectively left the atmosphere [9], [18]. After leaving the atmosphere, structural constraints can be relaxed, and a more arbitrary attitude profile can be prescribed. In Section 6.5.2 we discussed the controlling of the $\mathbf { V } _ { g y }$ component of the velocity-to-be-gained vector. The null $\mathbf { V } _ { g y }$ control in yaw can be initiated shortly after launch (i.e., as soon as the missile has been rolled so that its y-axis is roughly normal to the computer xz-plane) and continued without change throughout the flight. Unfortunately, the same is not true of pitch guidance control. Cross product control in pitch rotates the missile so that it lines up essentially with $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ . If this is done too early in the flight, the missile follows an inefficiently low trajectory through the atmosphere. Therefore, guidance control in pitch is normally delayed until the missile is above the sensible atmosphere. It would be possible to instrument a more complicated pitch guidance control method that could be used throughout the flight, but such a method must be developed that would have an advantage over the use of a separate control method for the atmospheric exit trajectory. This exit phase control can be just an open loop pitch program, or it can be a simple closed loop path control system.
