and the aerodynamic derivatives are conventionally defined. Here, it is assumed that thrust and drag are negligible. The $( \alpha / \dot { \gamma } )$ term in the above equation is the angle of attack required to achieve a given flight path rate, and therefore represents the gimbal angle change in achieving a given missile maneuver. At high altitudes, it is necessary for the airframe to have a relatively large angle of attack in order to develop 1 g of lateral acceleration. The ratio $\alpha / \dot { \gamma }$ can be reduced, if it becomes large, by using movable wings near the $c g$ , so that very little body pitching is required to develop lateral acceleration. However, a practical difficulty with this scheme is that the body cg moves appreciably as the booster (and sustainer, if used) motor burns.

Based on the discussion of this section, the stability condition for an aerodynamic missile is illustrated in Figure 3.13 (see also Sections 3.1 and 3.3.2 for a discussion of the center of pressure $( c p ) )$ .

The quantity $M _ { \alpha }$ is a measure of responsiveness of the airframe to pitch-moment changes with alpha. A small positive $M _ { \alpha }$ and slightly unstable airframe can be tolerated, but a highly negative $M _ { \alpha }$ is preferable for stability of the autopilot and attitude loop. It appears that a zero or slightly negative $M _ { \alpha }$ (fairly stable airframe) is the best total compromise that the guidance designer could ask for. In words, the conditions depicted in Figure 3.13 can be stated as follows: (a) If the center of pressure $( c p )$ is ahead of the center of gravity $( c g )$ , the missile is said to be statically unstable; (b) if the $c p$ is behind the $c g$ , the missile is said to be statically stable; and (c) if the $c p$ and $c g$ coincide, then the missile is said to be neutrally stable. Note that the distance between the $c p$ and $c g$ is called the “static margin.” A summary of some of the important airframe characteristics is given below:
