Another milestone occurred on March 15, 2002, with the successful test of the ground-based mid-course intercept system. The March 15 test (IFT-8) marked the fourth intercept in six attempts. It also represented a step up in complexity from earlier tries. The mock warhead and three decoys (prior tests used only one decoy) were launched from Vandenberg AFB, California, at 9:11 p.m. (EST). The interceptor carrying the exoatmospheric kill vehicle (EKV) launched about 20 min later from the Kwajalein Atoll in the South Pacific. When the kill vehicle separated from its booster, it was about 870 mi (1,400 km) from the warhead. About 10 min later, the kill vehicle collided with the warhead. The EKV was guided to the target first through a ground-based X-band radar and later using its on-board visual and two IR sensors. The ground-based, midcourse intercept segment will be a core part of the future ballistic missile defense system. The seventh intercept for the ground-based midcourse missile defense program, the IFT-9, took place on October 14, 2002. As in the previous tests, the target was launched from Vandenberg AFB, California, at 10 p.m. EDT followed by launch of the interceptor 22 min later from a range in the Kwajalein Atoll. The exoatmospheric kill vehicle intercepted the mock warhead 6 min later. This was the fifth intercept in seven attempts. The test for the first time involved an Aegis destroyer, the USS John Paul Jones, tracking the engagement (i.e., gathering data on the target and interceptor) with its powerful SPY-1 radar. The December 11, 2003, test (IFT-10) failed to intercept the target. Specifically, the interceptor fired from the Kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall Islands did not eject the exoatmospheric kill vehicle that intercepts the target. More tests are planned for 2003 and 2004.

The MDA is asking Congress to appropriate another \$1.5 billion for 2003 and 2004 for certain development capabilities. These include up to 20 ground-based interceptor missiles capable of taking out ICBMs during midflight: 16 at Fort Greeley, Alaska, 4 at Vandenberg AFB, California and up to 20 sea-based interceptor missiles employed on existing Aegis destroyers.
