Mach 2–2.6 at 45,000 ft or more over ranges up to 180 nm from airborne launches. Midcourse inertial guidance is followed by sea-skimming (33–50-ft) active/passive radar terminal homing. Other Russian antiship missiles include the Granit (SS-N-19 Shipwreck) and the Moskit (SS-N-22 Sunburn). Norway is developing a helicopterand ship-launched antiship cruise missile known as the NSM, which would have about twice the range of the antiship AGM-119 Penguin missile, and is slated to become operational around 2004. Maritime patrol aircraft also could fire the missile. This new missile is being designed to include some low-observable (i.e., stealthy) characteristics in order to reduce the risk of being shot down by ship self-defense systems, and would carry a 120-kg (264.55-lb) warhead. The NSM would be capable of maneuvering during the terminal phase of the flight. During cruise, the missile will be guided using map-based terrain-following navigation. For terminal guidance it will use a passive IIR seeker with automatic target recognition algorithms. The missile would be powered by a TRI40 turbojet and have a maximum operating altitude of about 6,000 meters (19,686 feet). Finally, this fire-and-forget missile would fly at subsonic speeds and at very low altitudes. For more details on these and other missiles, the reader is referred to [2], [3].

India is also developing a supersonic cruise missile, the BrahMos. Brahmaputra and Moscow Rivers are developing the 5,500-lb missile. The range for Mach 2.8 missile is given as 157 nm. BrahMos is a modified derivative of the Russian NPO Mashinostroenia Onix ramjet-powered antiship missile. The developers say that the missile can be launched from a submarine, surface ship, heavy vehicle, or aircraft.
