On July 14, 2001, the sixth in a series of Air Force missile intercept flight tests (designated as IFT-6) took place. As in the previous tests, a ground-based national missile defense program intercepted a mock warhead during a flight test from the Kwajalein missile range. It was the second intercept in four attempts and a repeat of IFT-5 in July 2000, when the target launcher failed to release the kill vehicle. This time, the target was launched on a Lockheed Martin-modified Minuteman II at 10:45 p.m. (EDT) from Vandenberg AFB, California. The Raytheon-built kill vehicle was launched on a surrogate booster 21 min 34 sec later, intercepting the target about 8 min from the time of launch. The kill vehicle had to pick out the warhead from a complex that included parts of the upper stage and a 1.65-meter-diameter decoy balloon, a newer version of the 1.7-meter-diameter decoy that was used in prior tests but failed to inflate during the last intercept test in 2000. In order to precisely guide the interceptor missile to the target, an X-band fire control radar will be used.

Another success was achieved on December 3, 2001, in intercepting a mock ICBM warhead. The December 3 intercept (IFT-7) of a dummy warhead was the second in a row for the ground-based NMD project. IFT-7 began around 9:59 p.m. (EST) with the launch of the target from Vandenberg AFB, California. The interceptor fired about 20 min later from the Kwajalein missile range in the Marshall Islands. Intercept occurred 10 min later at an altitude in excess of 140 mi. The kill vehicle intercepted the target even more accurately than in the previous intercept. In the flight tests so far, only a single decoy was used. In the near future additional decoys will be added to the program. The addition of decoys in the next test (IFT-8) would make it the first in which the kill vehicle’s target-discrimination capability would be stressed. The tests so far have focused primarily on validating the kill vehicle’s ability to maneuver toward and intercept the target.
