A ballistic missile, as we saw in Chapter 6, is guided for the first five of the twenty minutes or so it takes to travel 5,000 km; a cruise missile, which usually flies at subsonic speed, would require close to six hours of continuously guided flight to cover the same distance. Hence, guidance errors that accumulate with time would be almost 100 times larger for a cruise missile than for a ballistic missile with a comparable range. Thus, the cumulative deviation from a preassigned track over a trajectory of thousands of kilometers would be very large in the case of the cruise missile, and therefore its accurate arrival on the target could be achieved only with continuous guidance that is updated and corrected from time to time by new location information. In order to obtain the necessary location information, a long-range cruise missile employs a device that can correlate information obtained by an onboard sensor about the terrain it is flying over with some kind of map stored in the memory of an onboard computer.

Cruise missiles are modeled with straight-line constant-velocity flight between initial location and target location. The missile is flown at constant velocity at 200 meters above ground level. A cruise missile is flown based on the missile’s current position and its target’s current position. The distance vector between the missile and the target is used to determine the impact and the need for terrain-following for the missile. Cruise missiles have served as warhead-delivery systems in the past, beginning with the early German V-1 buzz bomb developed and employed during World War II (see also Chapter 1), and continuing with such weapons as the U.S. Matador, Regulus, and Snark missiles, and the Russian Shaddock and Kh-55 missiles.
