The Block 5 HARM AGM-88C missile uses a new home-on-jam capability to lock onto a jammer. Specifically, this missile has the capability to attack a GPS jammer; that is, it has the capability to attack the last known geographic location if a threat radar goes off the air, and improved capability against advanced radar waveforms. A new, smarter version of the AGM-88 HARM antiradar missile is under development at the present time, which is designed as a substitute for the existing models. Development of the smarter control/guidance section of the new HARM, which will include both GPS and inertial guidance. The development of this new HARM missile is a joint effort of Germany, Italy, and the United States, and is called the International HARM Upgrade Program. The enhanced version of the U.S. AGM-88C will be designated as the AGM-88D, while the German and Italian versions as AGM-88B+. The original HARM concept, developed more than two decades ago, was designed to home on signals emitted by threat radars. Thus, if a HARM missile were launched against a specific threat radar that suddenly stopped transmitting, the HARM guidance system could “look” for and attack another radar in the vicinity. The new HARMs equipped with both GPS and inertial guidance will be able to accurately determine “no-attack” geographic areas, that is, cases where the threat radars may be intentionally located near hospitals or other populated areas. If the geographic coordinates of a threat radar have been determined by photographic or electromagnetic reconnaissance, its location can be programmed into the upgraded HARM’s guidance system. This will enable the missile to continue its attack even if the threat radar shuts down. To this end, an even smarter antiradar guidance system with such capability is being developed under an advanced technology demonstration program called Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile (AARGM). The dual-mode guidance technique is designed to enable a further upgrade of HARM missiles. As the AARGM approaches the vicinity of its intended target (e.g., if the radar has shut down), the missile’s millimeter-wave radar will activate to search for strong echoes from the target’s radar antenna and/or its launcher of antiaircraft missiles.
