# 4.2.2 Command and Other Types of Guidance

As discussed in Section 4.1.1, homing missiles may home on the target using a variety of techniques. Each technique entails a certain mathematical law and/or constraint. The majority of the guidance systems that we will discuss in this section are of the line-of-sight type; i.e., the primary source of guidance information is the direction of the line from the missile to the target (and its rates). In Chapter 1, guidance was defined as the means by which a missile steers or is steered to a target. Missile guidance is generally divided into three distinct phases: (1) boost or launch, (2) midcourse, and (3) terminal. The boost phase lasts from the time the missile leaves the launcher until the booster burns all of its fuel. The missile may or may not be actively guided during this phase. The midcourse phase, when it has a distinct existence, is usually the longest in terms of both distance and time. During this phase, guidance may or may not be explicitly required to bring the missile onto the desired course and to make certain it stays on course until it enters a zone (in parametric space) from which terminal guidance can successfully take over. The terminal phase is the last phase of guidance and must have high accuracy and fast reaction in order to ensure an intercept with the target. In this phase, the guidance seeker (if one is used) is locked onto the target, permitting the missile to be guided all the way to the target. Therefore, proper functioning of the guidance system during the terminal phase, when the missile is approaching its target, is of critical importance. A great deal of work has been done to develop extremely accurate equipment for use in terminal-phase guidance.
