Various flight paths or trajectories may be deployed with respect to fixed targets, but for moving targets special requirements must be met. In homing systems, sensing elements must be sharply directional to perceive small angular displacements between a missile and its target. Figure 4.1 illustrates a possible classification of the various missile types by their guidance method. The scheme of classification is not unique. Nevertheless, this figure is presented here as a starting point for further discussion and to establish a standard in this diversified field.

Fighter aircraft entering service in the early twenty-first century will be equipped with helmet-mounted display systems fully integrated with all of the aircraft’s avionics systems that will give pilots the ability to fire up to $9 0 ^ { \circ }$ to the left and right of the aircraft during air-to-air engagements. Consequently, advanced medium-range air-to-air missiles using helmet-mounted display systems will have a $5 0 g / 9 0 ^ { \circ }$ -turn capability for off-boresight targets. Even today, close-in engagements (up to 5 km in range) involving helmet-mounted display systems can direct infrared missiles to their target.

For instance, the present Russian R-73 (NATO code: AA-11 Archer) air-to-air missile has a passive infrared seeker and uses helmet-mounted display technology, which can acquire targets up to $6 0 ^ { \circ }$ left or right; that is, it can be used to point to the target by the helmet system. Thus, a pilot can engage an enemy aircraft simply by turning his head without turning the nose of the aircraft (for more details, see Section 5.12.1).

Air-to-air weapons vary in size, weight, and guidance package. The weapons or other stores must be compatible for carriage on U.S. and other allied military aircraft. For this reason, U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy organizations are involved in ensuring that stores will fit on different aircraft. Specifically, a computational fluid dynamics program is under development by the Air Force. This program is supposed to model airflow around stores and the impact on them in order to conduct flow separation and cavitation analysis.
