Electrooptical Sensors. Electrooptical (EO) systems provide sighting enhancement through amplification of received electromagnetic radiation and display of this information for use in the sighting problem. Television cameras receive visible light and display it on a cathode ray tube (CRT). Since TV tubes can be made very small, they can be placed on the inner ring of a gimbal system. Thus, the angle rate bombing system (ARBS) uses a TV sensor. Forward-looking infrared (FLIR) systems use cooled solid-state detectors to spot blackbody radiation. An object need not necessarily be hot to be perceived by this detector; it is the contrast with the surrounding territory that is significant. The FLIR pictures resemble TV except for some odd shading.

Laser Systems. Laser systems are semiactive. One party, the forward air controller (FAC), illuminates a desired target with laser energy while the attacking aircraft receives the signal. The aircraft avionics incorporates the direction information into the bombing problem and displays the information to the pilot executing the attack. A laser spot tracker (LST) is a four-quadrant detector similar to the seeker of the laser-guided bomb. An LST is a receiver only. A laser designator is a laser aboard the aircraft used to designate targets for other aircraft or to guide weapons with laser seekers. A laser ranger obtains range to target because of the shorter wavelength of the laser signal. However, lasers do not penetrate weather as well as radar. Laser systems are small, light, relatively cheap, and are popular in a podded configuration to increase the capability for close air support in daylight. An example is the Pave Penny pod used on the A-10 attack aircraft, while the GBU-24 is an example of a laser-guided bomb (see also Appendix F). Laser systems provide a partial answer to the target acquisition problem.
