Another design, in addition to the conventional fin control actuation systems, is the thrust vector control, whereby steering of the missile is accomplished by altering the direction of the efflux from the propulsion motor. In this design, a thrust vector controller is used to follow the thrust vector command. More specifically, the fire control system can command the thrust generator to generate the thrust amplitude and direction commands. Consequently, the thrust amplitude obtained by controlling the exhaust mass flow rate and the thrust direction generated by controlling the thrust vector control servo are combined to construct a thrust vector control. As in the conventional fin control actuation systems, a servo control system can be used. In such a case, an autopilot can be used to follow the trajectory shaping and optimization commands and to stabilize the missile during flight. The advantage of this method is that it does not depend on the dynamic pressure of the atmosphere. On the other hand, a missile using the thrust vector control method becomes inoperative after motor burnout. Therefore, in such a design a boost-coast velocity profile must be generated during the design/simulation phase of the weapon.

Many of the modern (e.g., air-to-air) missiles use deflector vanes in their rocket motor exhaust in order to execute sharp turns in either direction (i.e., left or right) off the aircraft’s nose. Missiles using thrust-vectoring control, thrust-vectoring augment canards in controlling pitch and yaw, and tail ailerons control roll. Finally, we end this section by noting that thrust vector control finds extensive application in shortrange air-to-air missiles, and vertically launched intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) as well as submarine-launched missiles such as the Trident, where early boost course corrections are required. Ballistic missiles will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 6.
