The U.S. Army, as mentioned above, is also pursuing a missile intercept program, known as the THAAD (theater high-altitude area defense) missile system, capable of both endo- and exoatmospheric missile interception. Specifically, the THAAD weapon system is being developed to defend against theater ballistic missiles. This mobile interceptor is designed to engage and destroy long-range strategic ballistic missiles in the highest reaches of the atmosphere. In August 1999 the Army, at the White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, the THAAD successfully intercepted a Hera target (the

Hera target is a two-stage RV used to simulate a Scud-C∗ configured to simulate a 310-mi range Scud-C. The THAAD is designed to have a range of 3,500 km (2,174.90 mi). The Hera target’s apogee was about 300 km (186.4 mi.), at which point the reentry vehicle separated from the missile. Moments earlier, the THAAD missile had been launched. About 7 sec before the intercept, the ground-based THAAD X-band radar passed guidance control to the interceptor’s IIR seeker. At a closing velocity of about 2.5 km/sec (1.55 mi/sec), the THAAD missile hit the target and destroyed the reentry vehicle at an altitude of about 100 km (62.4 mi). The THAAD was able to select an aimpoint on the reentry vehicle. The interceptor tries to hit the target as close to the warhead as possible (see also Section 4.7) to destroy any submunitions or weapons of mass destruction that may be part of the payload. When the missile seeker turned on, it required very little fuel to maneuver the interceptor toward the target. Furthermore, the seeker had no difficulty spotting the reentry vehicle, which was colder than the expended Hera booster that also was in its field-of-view. According to present plans, the THAAD program will begin flight-testing in 2003, with an operational system ready for deployment in the 2004/2005 time frame.
