Aircraft Performance. Aircraft performance, or lack thereof, does not seriously affect delivery accuracy except when the roll-in maneuver or popup technique to the roll-in maneuver is used. To be a good weapon delivery platform, an aircraft must have adequate damping, maneuverability, and controllability to permit the pilot to effectively place the aircraft in a predetermined position (altitude and slant range) in space for accurate manual/visual bombing. Automatic fire-control systems compensate for most aircraft characteristics.

Target Acquisition. Target acquisition plays a major role in mission accomplishment. More specifically, target acquisition can be accomplished, in addition to visual means, by such techniques as radar, forward-looking infrared (FLIR), laser systems, and helmet-mounted display systems. Acquisition system errors are included in an analysis used to generate the accuracy estimates. Target acquisition and workload/ stress are interrelated in a manner difficult to quantify. Late target acquisition can raise the workload/stress level.

Accuracy Relationships. For single releases from a large number of individual passes and corresponding aiming operations, the delivery accuracy is a measure of the variation of the impact point about the intended aimpoint. For example, for salvo and stick releases, delivery accuracy is a measure of the variations of the centers of impact (pattern centers) about the aimpoint. Delivery accuracy may be expressed in several ways. In this book, accuracies are expressed in mils (milliradians) perpendicular to the line of sight (LOS) for most cases. For weapons systems or tactics that have accuracies dependent on slant range (mil accuracy not constant), accuracy estimates in the ground plane are generally used. Terminally guided weapons require additional parameters to adequately describe the system accuracy.
