At this point, it is appropriate to discuss briefly the function of the parasitic attitude loop (for more details the reader is referred to [3], [5], and [12]). In Section 3.4 it was mentioned that one problem the guidance designer faces is to preserve the stability of the parasitic attitude loop. The parasitic, or unwanted, attitude loop arises because the guidance system’s measurement of the line-of-sight (LOS) rate calls for corrective missile lateral acceleration, which is accompanied by a missile pitching that disturbs the measurement of LOS rate. More specifically, one of the most serious parasitic feedback paths in tactical radar homing missiles is created by the radome. As discussed in Section 3.4.1, the radome causes a refraction (i.e., bending) of the incoming radar wave, creating a false indication of the target’s location. In essence, body rate and body acceleration are parasitic feedback loops, owing to the fact that an aerodynamic missile must pitch to an angle of attack in order to be able to maneuver. As a result of radome refraction, the autopilot and seeker dynamics are coupled through the missile body rate signal. Another type of parasitic feedback loop may arise due to body bending effects. This effect is simply a high-frequency autopilot instability in which body bending is detected by the autopilot as a missile motion. Parasitic feedback paths arising within the guidance or homing loop will work in the direction of larger time constants and smaller effective navigation ratios in order to obtain acceptable performance. In particular, at high altitudes, the parasitic feedback is appreciable, and the guidance subsystem may become unstable, resulting in a flight failure. Stability may be achieved merely by low-pass filtering in the guidance subsystem, but this may make it sluggish and cause a bad miss.
