The PAC-3 system is in operational testing now. Based on the Patriot system, the missile intercepts incoming ballistic missiles in the atmosphere. Other systems include the Theater High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) and the joint Israeli– U.S. Arrow system. Sea-based missile defense systems are also included in the terminal-phase plans. The recent U.S. withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty aids the U.S. missile defense effort. The withdrawal allows the United States to explore different elements of missile defense and to approach the missile defense in greater detail. It also provides for more realistic testing of these systems. Finally, the United States can now discuss the missile defense problem with allies, something the treaty forbade.

We will now discuss briefly the SBL and ABL directed-energy technology programs. A U.S. Air Force/industry consortium consisting of Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and TRW is in the early stages of defining an orbiting missile defense (or antimissile) system. A preliminary design calls for 24 satellites in low-Earth orbits of about 1,000 km (621.4 miles). This directed-energy technology, space-based missile defense program known as the space-based laser (SBL) program is designed to destroy intercontinental ballistic missiles shortly after launch (or boost phase). In addition to targeting ballistic missiles, the technology program is supposed to improve cruise missile defenses. In other words, the space-based laser can destroy missiles before penetration aids and multiple reentry vehicles are dispensed. The DoD wants the system to work in conjunction with the ground-based NMD system, which is already in development. Lockheed Martin is taking the lead on the space segment, and TRW on the payload. The payload area is further divided, with TRW focusing on the chemical oxygen iodine laser, Lockheed Martin on the beam control/fire control system, and Boeing on the beam director.
