Basically, band-switching is used to maintain within appropriate limits the product of surface roll effectiveness $K _ { \delta }$ and the electronic gains. In general, the criterion (such as $M _ { \delta } )$ for band-switching in pitch would govern the band-switching in roll. This requires some minor measurement and computation in the carrier aircraft, which sets the proper band in the missile prior to launch. If the missile changes altitude radi-cally as in a snap-up attack or otherwise changes drastically its value of $M _ { \delta }$ , then some compromise in stability and/or speed of guidance response may be necessary. In general, it is not considered practical for the missile to make measurements of air data and to compute $M _ { \delta }$ for autonomous band-switching. Instead, a better solution is an adaptive autopilot system. Altitude band-switching compensates for the effects of altitude. (Note that this band-switching can be eliminated by designing adaptive autopilots.) Bandwidth variations at a given altitude are compensated for by making the electronics portion of the loop gain a function of velocity. The bandwidth of the roll autopilot may need to be about twice that of the pitch autopilot, in order to suppress high-frequency induced roll moments that are caused by the guidance system noise. Furthermore, in order to minimize the effects of aerodynamic crosscoupling, the roll autopilot should have a gain-crossover frequency (bandwidth) appreciably greater than that of the pitch or yaw autopilots. As stated above, a roll autopilot is typically compensated for changes in altitude and Mach number by band-switching the amplifier gain, and if the application warrants adaptive autopilots, the adaptive measurement may advantageously be made in the relatively noisefree roll channel and then used in all three autopilots. In addition, the roll autopilot has velocity compensation to further increase its effectiveness over the operational envelope.
