$$\mathbf {x} (t) = \text { measured state vector },\mathbf {x} _ {n} (t) = \text { nominal state vector },\mathbf {u} (t) = \text { commanded control vector },\mathbf {u} _ {n} (t) = \text { nominal control vector }.$$

The discussion of the LQR presented above is the classical one. Finally, we note that the strength of the LQR lies in its ability to adapt to local disturbances without diminishing global performance.

Earlier in this section it was mentioned that the SRAM II uses LQR theory as the guidance law (or algorithm), which is an application of modern control theory, capable of intercepting and destroying moving as well as hardened targets and SAM sites. Even though the SRAM II program was canceled by the United States Congress, nevertheless, it is worth discussing some of its unique weapon delivery properties.

Designed in the early 1980s, the SRAM II is a supersonic standoff air-launched inertially guided strategic missile. The missile has the capability to cover a large target accessibility footprint when launched with a wide range of initial conditions. It is powered by a two-pulse solid rocket motor with a variable intervening coast time. The missile was required to fly trajectories that vary, depending on the particular mission objectives, from lofted (reaching to high altitude where path control is very limited), to low altitude (where path control is critical). Constraints may be imposed on the path of the missile in order to ensure satisfying conditions related to attitude stability, heating, collision avoidance, terminal attitude, and other mission requirements. It is also necessary to extremize certain flight parameters, such as terminal velocity, in order to enhance the probability of mission success.
