# 3.2 Aerodynamic Moment Representation

In a similar manner to the aerodynamic forces of the previous section, the moments on the missile can be divided into moments created by the aerodynamic load distribution and the thrust force not acting through the center of gravity. Specifically, the moment due to the resultant force acting at a distance from the origin may be divided into three components, referring to the missile’s body reference axes. The three moment components are the pitching moment, the rolling moment, and the yawing moment. These moments will now be defined more closely:

Pitching Moment: The pitching moment is the moment about the missile’s lateral axis (i.e., the $Y _ { b } – \mathbf { a x i s } )$ . The pitching moment is the result of the lift and the drag forces acting on the vehicle. A positive moment is in the nose-up direction.

Rolling Moment: This is the moment about the longitudinal axis of the missile (i.e., the $X _ { b } – \mathrm { a x i s } )$ . A rolling moment is often created by a differential lift, generated by some type of aileron. A positive rolling moment causes the right or starboard wingtip to move downward.

Yawing Moment: The moment about the vertical axis of the missile (i.e., the $Z _ { b } { \mathrm { - } } \mathrm { a x i s } )$ is the yawing moment. A positive yawing moment tends to rotate the nose to the right.

It should be pointed out here that the calculation of the aerodynamic forces and moments acting on a vehicle often requires that the engineer be able to relate data obtained at other flow conditions to the conditions of interest. For example, the engineer often uses data from the wind tunnel, where scale models are exposed to flow conditions that simulate the design environment or data from flight tests at other flow conditions. In order that one can correlate the data for various stream conditions and configuration scales, the measurements are usually presented in dimensionless form. The procedure used to nondimensionalize the moments created by the aerodynamic forces is similar to that used to nondimensionalize the lift. Thus, the components of the aerodynamic moment can be expressed in terms of dimensionless coefficients, flight dynamic pressure, reference area, and a characteristic length as follows [6]:
