A disadvantage of command guidance is that the external energy source must illuminate the target often enough (i.e., high data rate) to make guidance effective.
The target may thus get alerted of the illuminating radar’s presence and operation, and may resort to evasive action.

Beam Rider: Beam riding is another form of command guidance. Specifically, in this type of guidance, the aircraft (target) is tracked by means of an electromagnetic beam, which may be transmitted by a ground (or ship or airborne) radar or a laser tracking system (e.g., a ladar (laser detection and ranging), or laser radar). In order to follow or ride the beam, the interceptor missile’s onboard guidance equipment includes a rearward-facing antenna, which senses the target-tracking beam. By utilizing the modulation properties of the beam, steering signals that are a function of the position of the missile with respect to the center (or the scanning axis) of the target-tracking beam are computed on board and sent to the control surfaces. These correction signals produce control surface movements intended to keep the missile as nearly as possible in the center of the target-tracking beam (or scanning axis). For this reason, the interceptor missile is said to ride the beam. Either the beam that the missile rides can track the target directly, or a computer can be used to predict the direction the missile beam should be pointing in order to effect an eventual collision of the interceptor missile with the target. In this case, a separate tracker is required to track the target. Some ground-tracking systems use a V-shaped beam to track the target. In such a case, the interceptor missile rides in the bottom of the V . If the missile moves out of the V bottom, sensing circuits in the missile cause the missile to return to the bottom of the V . As long as the launch point continues to track the target, and the missile continues to ride the radar beam, the missile will intercept the target. As in any system, there are advantages and disadvantages in using one method versus another. The advantage of the beam-riding guidance technique is that it permits the launching of a large number of missiles into the same control or target-tracking beam, since all of the guidance equipment is carried in the missile. A disadvantage of this guidance technique is that the tracking beam must be reasonably narrow to ensure intercept, thus increasing the chance of the interceptor missile losing track of the target, particularly if the target undergoes evasive maneuvers. The problem of large tracking error for long-range targets usually restricts the use of this guidance technique to short ranges.
