# 6.4.3 Ballistic Error Coefficients

An important aspect of ballistic missile guidance is the determination of the error coefficients at the burnout or thrust termination. The propagation of burnout errors is a very important aspect of ballistic missile design. Burnout errors that are critical in the design are the velocity (V ), flight path angle (γ ), and burnout altitude (h). These variables control the missile’s flight in achieving the burnout condition. The burnout errors $\delta V , \delta \gamma , \delta h , \mathrm { e t c . }$ ,∗ are commonly described in terms of error coefficients. Furthermore, the propagation of burnout errors into impact errors as the vehicle travels over the perturbed free-flight trajectory is significant in two areas: It permits one (1) to evaluate the effects of measurement and control errors of the guidance system, and (2) to determine the types of trajectories that would be less sensitive to burnout errors than others. Therefore, in this section we will derive closed-form mathematical expressions that can be used to calculate the changes in the position and velocity vectors from their nominal values at any given time along a free-fall trajectory that arise from perturbations in the nominal position and velocity vectors at the initial (or thrust termination) time. The assumptions upon which this development rests are summarized as follows:

1. The free-fall trajectory takes place in a simple inverse-square central gravitational field.   
2. The only force acting is that of gravity; that is, the trajectory occurs in a vacuum where no aerodynamic forces are present.   
3. The time of flight is constant.

Specifically, we will develop in this section the in-plane and out-of-plane error coefficients. However, before we proceed with the above development of the error coefficients, we will briefly discuss the cross-range and down-range errors. To begin with, note that variations in position, velocity, and launch direction of the missile at thrust cut-off will produce errors at the target (or impact point). These errors are of two types: (1) errors in the intended plane, which cause either a long or short hit, and (2) out-of-plane errors, which cause the missile to hit to the right or left of the target. Commonly, the errors in the intended plane are designated as down-range errors, and the out-of-plane errors are designated as cross-range errors.
