Recognition of the human’s psychological capabilities and limitations establishes the foundation for (a) crew station design, (b) task-oriented flying qualities, and (c) automation selection for workload reduction and mission task precision exceeding human capabilities. Specifically, significant synergistic benefits result from technology integration centered on the pilot and the flight control neuromuscular network interfaced with the airframe, avionics, weapons, propulsion, and $C ^ { 3 } I$ systems [9]. In an intensive threat and target environment, trajectory controls generation for tasks such as low-level penetration threat avoidance/evasion and integrated flight/weapon control becomes a flight-critical function. In the future, fail-operational redundancy management will be extended to the mission trajectory generation avionics architecture. Since, as mentioned above, the pilot is the center of the design integration process, situational awareness/situation assessment (SA/SA) will be incorporated into future designs; that is, situational awareness will be provided in future aircraft with a new pilot–vehicle interface. In this case, a pilot model will be required. The pilot model provides for explicit representation of the pilot’s behavior in information processing, situational assessment, and decision making during weapon delivery, using three key technologies: (1) modern estimation theory to represent the pilot’s initial information processors of the sensory cues available to the pilot, (2) belief networks to model the pilot’s ongoing assessment of the tactical situation, and (3) expert system production rules to represent situation-driven decision-making behavior. Situational awareness demands strict requirements for efficient information management within the cockpit to ensure that the pilot is fully cognizant of events and other combatant positions within his environment. Furthermore, knowledge of the current state allows the pilot to accurately predict future events, thereby enhancing his ability to effectively counter threat systems (e.g., air-to-ground) and achieve maximum lethality. Capability for decision making, automatic weapon preparation, autonomous and/or remote weapon control, and display alternatives are new computer functions that are required.
