The navigation weapon delivery computer (NWDC) is an indispensable central element in the weapon delivery function or process, integrating the displays, sensors, controls, and pilot’s commands. In particular, its most important role is to solve ballistic prediction problems in real time, which permits an unconstrained selection of flight path and altitude during weapons pass. During navigation, the NWDC continuously derives and displays present position and destination guidance data. Specifically, using a control panel in the cockpit, the pilot can converse with the NWDC, prestoring more than twenty destinations that can be called up during the flight.

Commonly, the NWDC provides several variations of both continuously computed release point (CCRP) and continuous computation of impact (i.e., target) point (CCIP) modes. (The CCIP is the point on the ground where the weapon would impact if released at that instant.) The HUD is driven by the NWDC through a MIL-STD-1553B MUX interface, allowing the pilot to acquire and attack targets with more heads up time. If available, as mentioned above, the NWDC also can drive the projected map display, which provides a continuous display of aircraft geographical position. A range indicator shows distance from present position to the selected destination. The forward-looking infrared (FLIR) POD (e.g., AAR-45) turns night target scenes into day; the FLIR permits detection, classification, and identification of targets, at sufficient range for a first pass attack if the target proves to be hostile. At night with the FLIR activated, an attack aircraft can deliver the same ordnance with the same accuracy as during daytime.
