A revolutionary new generation of miniature loitering smart weapons (or submunition) is the U.S. Air Force’s LOCAAS (Low-Cost Autonomous Attack System) missile that was designed and flight-tested in the 1990s as a gliding weapon for armored targets only. LOCAAS can be air launched singly or in a self-synchronizing swarm that will deconflict targets so only one LOCAAS pursues each target. This futuristic smart weapon has a mind of its own. Scanning the land below, these weapons can identify and destroy mobile launchers. The key here is that they can distinguish between different targets and then shape their warheads to inflict maximum damage. Nose to tail, these \$40,000, 31-inch (0.787 meter) long air-to-surface weapons will be anything but small in performance. The current production version calls for a fivepound turbojet engine with thirty pounds of thrust to fly 100 m/sec (328 ft/sec) while hunting for fast-moving missile launchers over a large target area. The size of a soup bowl, the warhead uses a shaped charge to transform a copper plate into fragments, a shuttlecock-shaped slug, or a rod that can penetrate several inches of high-carbon steel. That is, its warhead can explode into fragments, a long-rod penetrator, or a slug, depending on the type of target it detects. Without designating a specific target, flight crews will leave the thinking to the missile’s three-dimensional imaging ladar (or laser radar) and use its target recognition system in its nose to continuously scan target areas. That is, the LOCAAS seeker uses advanced target recognition algorithms to detect, prioritize, reject, and select targets. As many as two hundred of these flying smart weapons can be swooping down on an enemy battlefield.
