Israel Aircraft Industries (IAI) announced that it successfully intercepted a ballistic missile target on September 14, 2000, with the Arrow weapon. (See also earlier discussion.) The target, including the simulated warhead, was destroyed by the Arrow 2 antitactical ballistic missile interceptor. According to the announcement, the test was one of the most realistic and operationally oriented to date, in that it the first time the weapon system was used to intercept an incoming target headed for Israel. The test also employed for the first time the new air-launched Black Sparrow target, which was launched from an Israel Air Force F-15 over the Mediterranean Sea. The Black Sparrow, developed by Rafael, is derived from the Israeli company’s AGM-142 Popeye air-to-ground standoff missile, modified with a more powerful rocket motor, in order to achieve the altitude required to simulate the trajectory of the ballistic missile. Black Sparrows are to be used for most Arrow tests, which are expected to continue at a rate of two per year. Recently, certain updates and improvements on the Arrow antiballistic missile system were announced. These are (a) better target discrimination, (b) an expanded envelope in which the missile can strike enemy warheads, and (c) an increased probability of a hit within that envelope. Tests currently underway are aimed at ensuring adequate defense against such missiles as Iran’s Shahab 3, which have a 600-mi range and 1,500-lb payload. IAI’s goal is to develop an improvement to the Arrow program so that it can counter Iran’s latest missile, the Shahab 4, which is to have a 1,300-mi range and a 2,200-lb payload. This missile, with its higher altitude capability and subsequently increased reentry speed, will be more difficult to intercept.

India’s Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) also tested in October 2002 the guidance system of its Akash surface-to-air interceptor missile. The Akash can carry a 55-kg (121-lb) payload 25 km (15.5 mi).
