The technology associated with the task of intercepting an ICBM depends, to a large degree, on whether the missile-interception system has sufficient warning time, since a certain amount of time is required for the interceptor to fly thousands of miles. Another possibility is a midcourse interception. The midcourse interception option is particularly attractive because a few long-range interceptors could protect a large area, thus a very large force is required to deal with widely separated potential attackers. Similarly, terminal interceptors must be deployed around each potential missile target, which means very large numbers. It seems to be generally accepted that modern technology can build an interceptor that can be flown toward an incoming warhead, then detect and hit it. The unanswered question is whether the same interceptor can distinguish the warhead from any decoys that might accompany it. The system currently proposed uses a midcourse interceptor boosted by an ICBMsize rocket. An incoming missile would be detected virtually at launch by orbiting satellites carrying IR sensors or the SBL using lasers. The orbiting satellites would cue long-range radars, which would first see the missiles as they came over the curve of the Earth. These radars would be upgraded versions of existing early warning systems. The upgrade is needed because instead of simply indicating the likely point of attack, the radar must measure the trajectory of the incoming missile so that it can be intercepted. As the missile comes closer, a ground-based radar picks it up. This high-resolution radar is the primary fire control sensor of the interception system. It tracks the incoming warhead precisely enough for the ground-based interceptor (GBI) to be command-guided (e.g., by up-link) into an interception “basket” from which its interceptor can home on the warhead to destroy it. Another radar also would help the system discriminate against some kinds of decoys, because it measures the behavior of the objects that separate from the incoming booster. The system as a whole can also use the space-based IR sensors to help discriminate between warhead and decoys.
