The DCR concept was invented by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL) in the early 1970s.
The DCR differs significantly from both a pure ramjet and a supersonic combustion ramjet of the type being jointly pursued by Pratt & Whitney, the U.S.
Air Force, and NASA.
Ramjets typically operate in the Mach 3–3.5 flight regime.
In flight, the air entering the power plant is compressed by the engine inlet and slowed to subsonic speeds to raise the pressure and temperature so that combustion can occur.
Fuel is added to this subsonic air, and the mixture is ignited.
Combustion products are then allowed to accelerate through a converging/diverging nozzle at supersonic speeds, generating thrust.
Above Mach 5, the inefficiencies associated with slowing the air for mixing and combustion are large and result in a loss of net positive thrust.
In contrast, a supersonic combustion ramjet, or scramjet, begins at flight speeds of around Mach 4–4.5 and, theoretically, can continue to operate up to about Mach 25.
In this power plant, supersonic air entering the engine inlet is mixed with fuel under supersonic conditions, ignited, and expanded to create thrust.
However, getting the fuel–air mixture to ignite when mixing time is less than 1 millisec is extremely difficult.
Early scramjet researchers used highly reactive fuel additives to enhance the mixing and combustion process.
However, these chemicals cannot be used on board ships or submarines because the materials are highly toxic.
Pratt & Whitney, working with the Air Force and NASA, is developing a scramjet powered by conventional, unadulterated liquid hydrocarbon fuels such as JP7.
In order to accomplish this, they direct the liquid fuel through the scramjet’s walls and use the heat generated by supersonic and hypersonic flight to crack the JP7 into lighter, more volatile components.
These gaseous components are then introduced into the supersonic airstream and ignited, producing thrust.
APL’s dual combustion ramjet is yet another way to obtain hypersonic speeds.
In this power plant, supersonic air ingested through one inlet is slowed to subsonic speeds, mixed with a conventional hydrocarbon fuel in a fuel-rich environment, and ignited, as in a ramjet.

To break through the ramjet’s operating speed limitations, though, the expanding combustion products are then mixed with supersonic air entering through a second inlet and are more completely burned in a supersonic combustor.
The DCR has an operating threshold of about Mach 3, and a maximum operating speed of about Mach 6.5.

Guidance for the proposed hypersonic missile will be GPS-based. Future weapons also may carry a communications link so they can be retargeted in flight.
