Because of its importance, some further discussion of the conventional ALCM is in order. As stated above, during the mid-1980s, the U.S. Air Force decided to modernize the ALCM, using the GPS integrated with an inertial navigation system (INS). This new cruise missile using the GPS and the INS was named the conventional air-launched cruise missile (CALCM or sometimes written as Calcm) designated AGM-86C. The current Calcm’s range is 650 miles. The advantages of GPS/INS integration are well known. Specifically, the long-term accuracy of the GPS combined with the short-term accuracy and autonomy of the INS results in a truly synergistic system. Two GPS/INS integration approaches are commonly used. These are (1) the tightly coupled integration approach, which yields higher accuracies; and (2) the loosely coupled integration approach used for short time and/or ranges, yielding lower accuracies. In the CALCM, the TERCOM guidance system was replaced with the GPS. As a result, the CALCM’s GPS receiver is interfaced with the ALCM’s altimeter, flight control system, the INS’s serial/digital interface, and the carrier aircraft. The navigator (i.e., dynamic navigation equations), consisting of a 15-state Kalman filter, is normally updated by the onboard navigation computer every 50 milliseconds (or a 20-Hz rate), while the GPS is updated at a 1-Hz rate. The GPS will normally consist of an 8-state Kalman filter (see Section 7.5), so that both the INS and GPS Kalman filters operate in a cascaded mode. Inertial aiding provided to the GPS receiver-tracking loop is at a 10-Hz rate. (Note that the INS is of the strapdown class. Thus, the basic strapdown INS algorithms that maintain the body-to-level-axis transformation matrix and transform the body-axis velocity increments to a locally level coordinate frame can be performed at a rate of 50 Hz, while the basic INS algorithms can be performed at an iteration rate of 10 Hz.)
