This chapter presents various methods of missile guidance for long-range strategic missiles. These guidance systems include inertial, celestial navigation, and terrestrial reference and magnetic systems. Of the many types of automatic guidance systems, the most important developments pertain to the inertial navigation and guidance system. All inertial guidance systems are similar in basic operation. In its simplest terms, inertial guidance can be described as a type of guidance that is complete within itself. It needs no exterior energy or radiation source to determine its course. It emits no signal, and it does not depend on ground equipment to operate it once the missile is launched [11]. Inertial guidance is especially advantageous for ballistic missiles, because it sends no signal and receives no signal, and cannot be jammed. Also, it is almost impossible to detect or intercept. It is not influenced by weather conditions. Missiles can be launched and guided accurately to the target with all corrections for winds, atmospheric conditions, and other factors automatically made in flight. The inertial system is presently considered the best guidance system for use against stationary targets. During flight, the system computes its present position, altitude, and velocity, and it applies various compensations to its computer. These corrections minimize the errors introduced into the system by gravity, Coriolis, gyro unbalances, accelerometer bias and scale factor errors, and the nonspherical shape of the Earth. Specifically, the powered portion of the flight (i.e., from launch to burnout) is the most critical part of the flight. Therefore, during this critical phase of the flight, the path is determined by the inertial navigation and guidance system. On the other hand, during the free-flight phase, the trajectory is part of a conic section, almost always an ellipse. Reentry, as we shall see later, involves the dissipation of energy by friction with the atmosphere.
