where $K ( k )$ is known as the Kalman gain matrix and $E \{ \mathbf { x } ( 0 ) \}$ is the mean vector of the initial state. Here we will discuss only digital filtering. However, since ${ \hat { \mathbf { x } } } ( k ) = { \hat { \mathbf { x } } } ( k \mid k )$ is determined by using all data $\mathbf { z } ( 0 ) , \ldots , \mathbf { z } ( k )$ , the process is not practical for realtime problems for very large values of k, since the need for storage of data and the computational requirements grow with time. Therefore, we will present only the recursive algorithm that gives ${ \hat { \mathbf { x } } } ( k ) = { \hat { \mathbf { x } } } ( k \mid k )$ from the prediction $\hat { \mathbf { x } } ( k | k - 1 )$ , and $\hat { \mathbf { x } } ( k | k - 1 )$ from the estimate $\hat { \mathbf { x } } ( k - 1 ) = \hat { \mathbf { x } } ( k - 1 | k - 1 )$ . Thus, the discrete-time Kalman filtering algorithm can be summarized as follows [4], [25]:

Coprocess

$$P (0, 0) = \operatorname{Var} \{\mathbf {x} (0) \} \quad (\text { given }), \tag {4.113}P (k, k - 1) = A (k - 1) P (k - 1, k - 1) A ^ {T} (k - 1)+ B (k - 1) Q (k - 1) B ^ {T} (k - 1), \tag {4.114}K (k) = P (k, k - 1) H ^ {T} (k) [ H (k) P (k, k - 1) H ^ {T} (k)\left. + R (k) \right] ^ {- 1}, \tag {4.115}P (k, k) = [ I - K (k) H (k) ] P (k, k - 1), \tag {4.116}$$

Main Process

$$\hat {\mathbf {x}} (0 | 0) = E \{\mathbf {x} (0) \} \quad (\text { given }), \tag {4.117}\hat {\mathbf {x}} (k \mid k - 1) = A (k - 1) \hat {\mathbf {x}} (k - 1 \mid k - 1), \tag {4.118}\hat {\mathbf {x}} (k \mid k) = \hat {\mathbf {x}} (k \mid k - 1) + K (k) [ \mathbf {z} (k) - H (k) \hat {\mathbf {x}} (k \mid k - 1) ], \tag {4.119}$$

where $P ( k )$ is known as the error covariance matrix. Note that in the above Kalman filter algorithm, the starting point is the initial estimate $\hat { \mathbf { x } } ( 0 ) = \hat { \mathbf { x } } ( 0 | 0 )$ . Since xˆ(0) is an unbiased estimate of the initial state $\hat { \mathbf { x } } ( 0 )$ , we could use $\hat { \mathbf { x } } ( 0 ) = \mathrm { E } \{ \hat { \mathbf { x } } ( 0 ) \}$ , which is a constant vector. Also, the Kalman gain K(k) must be computed recursively. Note that if we use the Kalman filtering scheme for the linear system given by (4.111) and (4.112) with non-Gaussian noise sequences, the resulting filtering performance can be very unsatisfactory. Hence, in this case, suboptimal, or robust, Kalman filtering becomes necessary. We will not treat the suboptimal Kalman filtering here. For more details on this subject, the reader is referred to [3], [4].
