Close air support (CAS) requires weapon terminal guidance techniques compatible with moving-target-indicating radars and forward-looking infrared systems. Counter air requires self-contained integrated flight and fire control systems for air superiority fighters. All tactical mission aircraft including remotely manned vehicles need integrated reference and flight control systems to provide more accurate weapon delivery and greater aircraft performance options. Tactical air-to-air missiles employing semiactive guidance systems are hindered by radar clutter. Mathematical analysis of acquisition and tracking in mono and bistatic clutter and receiver performance in main lobe clutter must be further researched. Medium-range tactical air-to-air missiles need midcourse guidance with a low-cost, wide-angle, and fixed FOV terminal sensor. Sensor elements and arrays, sensor tracking logic, and rapid handover techniques (FCS to missile) for such concepts must also be researched.

Navigation, guidance, and control are functions that demand highly specialized supporting technologies. Navigation is the process of determining position and velocity of a vehicle. Engineering investigations and analyses reveal that technology has advanced sufficiently to permit multiple usage of inertial navigation systems. Guidance, the process of using vehicle position, velocity, attitude, and mission data to compute thrust and steering commands, is the process between navigation and control and includes space, intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM), antiballistic missiles (ABM), and air-to-ground missile applications. Control is the process of causing a dynamical system to behave in a desired manner.
