# 4.7 Three-Dimensional Proportional Navigation

In the previous sections we discussed two-dimensional (or navigation in the plane) proportional navigation (PN) guidance laws and homing systems used in intercepting airborne targets. Other modified forms of proportional navigation such as pure proportional navigation (PPN), true proportional navigation (TPN), and generalized true proportional navigation (GTPN) have been discussed in the literature. These analyses were based on two-dimensional models. However, even though actual pursuit–evasion dynamics occur in three-dimensional space, the extension from two-dimensional guidance laws to the three-dimensional case is not immediately obvious. Therefore, in this section we will briefly discuss a possible approach to the three-dimensional true proportional navigation. For more details, the reader is referred to [13], [21], [22], [34], and [34].

The proportional navigation law in three dimensions shows that is necessary to measure the LOS angular rate dλ/dt in two seeker-instrument axes that are orthogonal to the seeker boresight axis (which is virtually coincident with the LOS to the target). Space-stabilization about these two instrument axes is necessary, although a slow roll rate about the LOS itself is tolerable. Specifically, in three-dimensional proportional navigation the seeker measurements are in spherical coordinates. That is, one must consider three parameters: (1) range, and (2) two angles (i.e., azimuth and elevation). These three parameters (or measurements) are a nonlinear function of the states in a Cartesian coordinate system. However, the nonlinear transformation of the states can be avoided if the guidance laws were formulated in spherical coordinates.

Only the equations for target motion estimation will be given here. Moreover, it is felt that the models assumed for generation of the target maneuver are realistic enough to provide satisfactory estimation accuracy in most situations. The target position equations can be combined with the pursuer equations to yield relative position equations. However, the target and pursuer velocity and acceleration equations cannot be combined, because estimates of target absolute velocity and acceleration are required for generating some of the equation coefficients.
