The sensitivity of weapon delivery accuracy to some release point error sources varies with the mode, weapon type, delivery condition, and configuration option. Navigation system parameters for which sensitivity analyses must be conducted are (a) the horizontal velocity components, (b) vertical velocity components, and (c) pitch and roll. Therefore, the sensitivity of weapon delivery accuracy to errors in the navigation system parameters is considered to be the release-point error sources. In addition to the release conditions and weapon delivery configuration specification, inputs to an error analysis program must include the sensor errors, pilot errors, and other miscellaneous errors. These input quantities are release point errors, which are converted by means of the error analysis equations into impact point errors (i.e., on the ground). The impact point errors are combined into a single statistical measure of weapon delivery accuracy, the impact CEP (circular error probable), which is the distance from the mean impact point (which is assumed to be unbiased) within which 50% of the weapons will impact [7]. The values of the sensor error sources (except for the navigation system parameters) are normally obtained from sensor performance specifications.

Extensive computer runs must usually be conducted in order to perform the necessary sensitivity analyses. The method most frequently used to determine the sensitivity of weapon delivery accuracy to a particular error source can be stated as follows: Keeping all other error sources fixed at their nominal value, the error source in question is varied from zero to a value that is usually five to ten times as large as its nominal value. Furthermore, the CEP is computed for each value of the error source, and a graph may be constructed showing CEP versus the value of that particular error source. Consequently, the effect of a single error source on the overall weapon delivery accuracy may be demonstrated in this way.

In summary, the fire control system works in conjunction with the communication, navigation, and identification (CNI), and survivability avionics to penetrate defenses and locate, acquire, and deliver air-to-ground and air-to-air weapons. The key elements of the navigation/weapon delivery system are (a) fire control radar, (b) wide-angle

HUD, (c) control panel, (d) multifunction display, (e) inertial navigation system, (f) fire control computer, (g) stores management set, (h) radar altimeter, and (i) data transfer equipment.
