The solution of this equation will yield a constant matrix P, which is the matrix for the optimal feedback function $\mathbf { u } ^ { * } ( \mathbf { x } , t ) = - \mathbf { R } ^ { - 1 } \mathbf { B } ^ { T } \mathbf { P } \mathbf { x }$ . Equation (4.136) is a neat way to indicate the usual relations that must be satisfied by the feedback matrix K. Note that the form $\mathbf { u } ^ { * } ( \mathbf { x } , t ) = - \mathbf { R } ^ { - 1 } \mathbf { B } ^ { T }$ Px indicates that in general all states are to be fed back. This implies that up to the $( n - 1 )$ )th derivative of the system, the output must be measured accurately. However, this is usually a difficult undertaking. The solution for ${ \mathbf { u } } ^ { * } ( t )$ , that is, (4.132), has several attractive properties. The most important ones for our application are as follows:

(1) The solutions for ${ \bf u } ^ { * } ( { \bf x } , t )$ and $\mathbf { P } ( t )$ are independent of $\mathbf { X } _ { O }$ and $\mathbf { X } _ { T }$ . This is extremely important, because it means that the problem need be solved only once (off-line), and this solution will be valid for all initial and final conditions.

(2) $\mathbf { u } ^ { * } ( \mathbf { x } , t )$ is a function of the system state ${ \bf x } ( t )$ . The fact that $\mathbf { u } ^ { * } ( \mathbf { x } , t )$ is a feedback control law means that it is less sensitive to noise, external disturbances, and modeling errors. Such a property is called robustness.

(3) From (4.133) we note that all the information needed to determine $\mathbf { K } ^ { * } ( t )$ can be computed off-line and stored in the missile’s onboard computer. Furthermore, if A, B, Q, and R are constant and the final time $T \to \infty$ , the matrix K becomes a constant. However, we must realize that the true missile system is nonlinear. If we use the on-line linearization technique discussed previously, we must compute a new K for each new value of A, B, Q, and R.
