LANTIRN pods get targeting information because the system has its own GPS receiver. That eliminates boresight errors that might otherwise occur between the pod and the aircraft. In essence, the system cross-cues the GPS data with information from the laser range finder to determine the precise location of the target. Those coordinates are then shown on the LANTIRN display. Through a second upgrade, F-14s will be able to share those target coordinates with other users. Two F-14 squadrons in Operation Allied Force have been equipped with the fast tactical imagery (FTI) system, which allows cockpit video from the television zoom camera, HUD, or LANTIRN targeting system to be transmitted from the aircraft. Specifically, it takes about 15 sec for the FTI to capture and transmit the image. Moreover, the system has only LOS capability. However, data can be relayed via several F-14s so that imagery can be received on a carrier several hundred miles away. The information is processed at the same terminal where digital imagery from the Tarps reconnaissance pod is displayed. From there it can be sent to other locations on the ship. FTI is expected to be used more frequently once the F-14’s ability to update GPS coordinates is fielded. The target coordinates could be transmitted to other strike aircraft, like F-15s, which would then plug the data into their GPS weapons.

Another step in upgrading the F-14’s bombing capability is the newly planned integration of GPS-guided bombs. These are, for example, the 2,000-lb. laser-guided GBU-24s (see Appendix F). The enhanced GBU-24s are being fitted with a GPS receiver so they can still strike with near-precision even when cloud cover prevents laser targeting. The next GPS-guided weapon to become operational would be the 2,000-lb GBU-32 JDAM. The F-14 upgrades also will use a LANTIRN upgrade so the laser designator can be used from 40,000 ft (12,192 m). At the present time, the system is cleared to operate only from 25,000 ft (7,620 m). Finally, the JSF’s electrooptical targeting system will be able to locate targets with enough acuity to identify a target such as a tank at more than 6.5 miles.
