Above all, LQR designs have desirable robustness (i.e., the ability to cope with adverse environments and input conditions) properties with guaranteed gain margins of at least 6 dB to $\infty$ and guaranteed phase margins of at least $\pm 6 0 ^ { \circ }$ .
The $L Q R$ is sometimes referred to as linear quadratic Gaussian $( L Q G )$ when Gaussian seeker noise is a significant part of the problem.
In stochastic interception and rendezvous problems, one models uncertainties associated with the dynamic behavior of the target and interceptor by means of Gaussian white noise, which acts as a forcing function to the state differential equations.
Designed for implementation in an onboard computer, the algorithm can use full missile-state feedback provided by an inertial navigation system (e.g., a strapdown INS).
Furthermore, the algorithm must perform the following tasks: (1) calculate commands for complex maneuvers, (2) respond to in-flight perturbations, (3) adapt to varying mission requirements, (4) manage missile energy efficiently, and (5) interface with other software subsystems.

Normally, a guided missile is aerodynamically controlled by three or four fins. Additional control is provided by adjusting the ignition timing of the solid rocket motor. Missile launch, that is, delivery, can occur at any altitude within the carrier envelope, provided that adequate distance is available for safe launch recovery. The trajectory may include maneuvers, such as turns to orient itself to the proper target bearing. Constraints must be imposed on the path of the missile in order to satisfy conditions related to attitude stability, collision avoidance, and terminal attitude and position. Moreover, trajectories are designed to extremize certain flight parameters, such as terminal velocity, range, or time of flight to improve the probability of mission success. The general regulator problem can be formulated as follows. Consider the continuous-time linear deterministic system (or plant) expressed by

$$\frac {d \mathbf {x} (t)}{d t} = A (t) \mathbf {x} (t) + B (t) \mathbf {u} (t), \tag {5.52}\mathbf {x} (t _ {0}) = \mathbf {x} _ {0},$$
