# For Unstable Airframe:

11. Find the maximum tolerable $M _ { \alpha }$ (body stability parameter) from the formula involving autopilot parameters.

12. If this is not acceptable, reduce the autopilot lags or redesign the airframe for better static margin.

At high frequencies, the rate-damping loop has the most gain, while at low frequencies the accelerometer loop has the most gain. Assuming that the bare airframe meets the criteria discussed in Section 3.2.1, the altitude-Mach envelope is divided into bands by $M _ { \delta }$ contours. The reason for this is that the transfer function $G _ { 3 }$ (or $G _ { p r } )$ is approximately $( M _ { \delta } / s )$ at high frequencies, and consequently the product of $M _ { \delta }$ and the electronic gains of the rate-damping loop must be lower than an unstable value and higher than an ineffective value. Band-switching on lines of constant altitude rather than constant $M _ { \delta }$ may be adequate if the range of Mach number is not too great. Next, a particular design point is selected, typically on the lower boundary of a given band. Then, realistic airframe transfer functions and pessimistic (i.e., worst temperature case) transfer functions for the gyro and actuators are obtained. From design speci-fications and/or requirements, the gain margin and realistic transfer functions, the maximum gain-crossover frequency $\omega _ { c r }$ , and the “integral break frequency $\omega _ { i } = K _ { 9 } K _ { 1 1 } / K _ { 8 } { T _ { 1 1 } } ^ { * }$ of the synthetic stability loop can be determined. These parameters tend to be limited mainly by the actuator lags. Therefore, the lags listed in step 6 above are then discarded, so that a simplified cubic autopilot model may be used for algebraic synthesis. In general, it is well to keep the integral break frequency $\omega _ { i }$ somewhere between $0 . 2 \omega _ { c r }$ and $0 . 4 \omega _ { c r }$ . Application of classical control theory, in particular the Routh criterion, has led to analytic limits on the positive value of $M _ { \alpha }$ . $\mathbf { A } s$ a rule of thumb, the approximate limit for the tolerable $M _ { \alpha }$ is

$$\text { Tolerable } M _ {\alpha} \cong \frac {1}{2} \omega_ {i} \omega_ {c r}.$$

Both $\omega _ { c r }$ and $\omega _ { i }$ are limited by the high-frequency lags, particularly in the actuator, which shows the need for fast actuator response.
