JDAM is a true force multiplier that allows a single aircraft to attack multiple targets from a single release point and has been proven in recent operations in both Iraq and Kosovo. (A JDAM launched from a B-2 bomber struck the People’s Republic of China embassy in Belgrade during Operation Allied Force, indicating the critical need for more accurate intelligence and targeting for such high-precision weapons.) As a result, a product improvement program is underway to assess the utility of improvements such as an autonomous seeker, improved GPS, and a range extension to the JDAM unit. Moreover, the B-1B Lancer Block D (second upgrade) aircraft can perform near-precision attacks against targets deep into enemy airspace by employing up to 24 JDAMs (the B-52Hs carry 12 JDAMs, 6 on each wing). To this end, the Block D modifications include installation of a MIL-STD-1760 weapons interface, GPS capability (for both aircraft and weapon navigation), and an upgraded aircraft communications package. Future B-1B upgrades, that is, Block E, are currently under development. The final block upgrade currently planned is Block F, or the defensive systems upgrade program. As the ground-to-air threat continues to grow and become more lethal, the B-1B’s defensive capability must be improved to enhance survivability. This program replaces the existing defensive system with an upgraded radar-warning receiver and the RF CM portion of the Navy’s Integrated Defensive Electronic CM Program, which includes a fiber-optic towed decoy. These new systems will significantly improve aircrew situational awareness (SA) and survivability against emerging threats. For more details on weapon warheads, the reader is referred to Section 4.9.
