The Enzian was another German surface-to-air missile (SAM). Designed to carry payloads of explosives up to 1000 pounds (453.6 kg), it was intended to be used against heavy-bomber formations. The Enzian was about 12 ft (3.657 m) long, had a wingspan of approximately 14 ft (4.267 m), and weighed a little over 2 tons (1,814.36 kg). Propelled by a liquid-propellant rocket, it was assisted during takeoff by four solidpropellant rocket boosters. The range of the Enzian was 16 miles (25.74 km), with a speed of 560 mph (901.21 km/hr), reaching an maximum altitude of 48,000 ft (14,630 m). In addition to the SAMs Germany had developed an air-to-air missile, designated the X-4. The X-4 was designed to be launched from fighter aircraft. Propelled by a liquid-propellant rocket, it was stabilized by four fins placed symmetrically. Its length was about 6.5 ft (1.98 m) and span about 2.5 ft (0.762 m). Its range was slightly over 1.5 miles (2.414 km), and its speed was 560 mph (901.21 km/hr) at an altitude of 21,000 ft (6,401 m). Guidance was accomplished by electrical impulses transmitted through a pair of fine wires from the fighter aircraft. This missile was claimed to have been flown, but it was never used in combat.

The V-weapons, as mentioned earlier, were used to bombard London and southeastern England from launch sites near Calais, France, and the Netherlands. However, as the German armies were withdrawing from the Netherlands in March 1945, the V-1s were launched from aircraft. Over 9,300 V-1s had been fired against England. By August 1944, approximately 1,500 V-1s had been shot down over England. Also, 4,300 V-2s had been launched in all, with about 1,500 against England and the remaining against Antwerp harbor and other targets.
