However, the SBL program faces formidable technical problems. Specifically, the technically most difficult aspect of the system is likely to be the deployable optics. In order to achieve the power levels required to destroy a missile, the SBL has to include large optics through which the laser will propagate. But those optics will fit in a heavy-lift launcher only if they are folded. Nevertheless, the design will likely be a variant of the chemical high-frequency Alpha laser. The U.S. Air Force developed and demonstrated the feasibility of destroying missiles with a laser in the 1980s, known as the Airborne Laser Laboratory. This program served as a precursor to the airborne laser (ABL). There will be provisions for an operational SBL to be refueled in orbit. The SBL program is resisting some calls for use of solid-state lasers, but some argue that the technology is not mature enough.

Since its inception in 1996, the airborne laser (ABL), the largest program among all BPI efforts, is also the one with the most research and development behind it. Initially, ABL is designed to defeat short-range ballistic missiles, but its role can be extended for strategic missiles as well. ABL is a revolutionary program that is serving as a trailblazer for SBL technologies. Pentagon officials are inclined toward a spacebased system because a large enough constellation would provide permanent global coverage, while ABL or most of the Pentagon’s other boost-phase intercept systems would have to be deployed and positioned precisely to carry out their mission. A Russian SS-18 (R-36M)-like heavy ICBM equipped with multiple warheads is the baseline threat against which SBL is being designed.

While the beam controls of the two concepts are in many respects quite similar, there are also important differences between the two DE systems. The ABL is designed to shoot down a ballistic missile during its relatively short boost phase by placing highpower energy on the missile using a megawatt-class chemical oxygen–iodine laser (COIL); its space-based counterpart will employ a hydrogen fluoride system. COIL is not suitable for space operations because its chemicals would not mix properly in a zero-g environment.
