# 5.4.1 The Fire Control Computer

The fire control computer (FCC) can be considered an integral part of the navigation weapon/delivery system. Typically, the FCC is a MIL-STD-1750A, modular, generalpurpose, microprogrammed, parallel, high-speed digital computer. As mentioned in the previous section, the FCC is the principal component of the weapons control subsystem, and provides real-time computations for the following functions: (a) automatic air-to-surface weapon deliveries, (b) air-to-air missile algorithms, (c) navigation-related data, (d) stores data select, (e) display control, (f) self-test, (g) fix taking, and (h) energy management information. The most important function of the fire control computer is to serve as the primary bus controller for the serial digital buses (avionics multiplex buses (AMUX) and the display multiplex buses (DMUX)). (Note that by multiplex we mean time-sharing.) Normally, data transmitted on both the AMUX and DMUX is in serial digital form and is coded in the Manchester biphase format. Data on the MUX buses is transmitted and received at a 1 MHz rate. The FCC also provides storage for centralized fault gathering and reporting of weapons’ control terminals’ self-test information.

The central processing unit (CPU) of the fire control computer can use 16-, 32-, and 48-bit data words for single- and double-precision fixed-point, and singleand extended-precision floating-point calculations. The CPU also performs singleprecision addition, subtraction, and loading in 1.3 microseconds, multiplication in 2.9 microseconds, and division in 7.5 microseconds. The FCC has six major addressing modes that enable it to address 64 K words of memory, and it uses a 16-register general register file to accomplish this function. The input/output (I/O) system is the means by which the FCC communicates with external sources.
