From the guidance techniques discussed above, the two most popular techniques are pure pursuit and proportional navigation. However, proportional navigation is more complicated to mechanize in terms of hardware, whereas pure pursuit causes higher aerodynamic loading on the airframe. The basic difference between the two is that pursuit guidance causes the interceptor missile to home on the target itself, while proportional navigation guidance causes the missile to home on the expected impact point. No matter which method is selected by the missile designer, in order to achieve a target kill the missile must be able to pull sufficient $g ^ { \ast } \mathrm { \mathbf { s } }$ to intercept the target within the lethal distance of the warhead. At lower altitudes, the airframe is not a limiting factor because the available $g ^ { \ast } \mathbf { s }$ are in excess of the autopilot limit (e.g., 25 g). At higher altitudes, especially in a snap-up attack, available $g ^ { \ast } \mathrm { \mathbf { s } }$ are usually the parameter that determines the launch boundary.

The maximum possible missile turn rate is a limiting factor at minimum range. This is because in a minimum-range situation, an air-to-air missile is usually required to turn rapidly to intercept the target within the short flight times. The maximum turn rate of the missile is limited by two factors: (1) autopilot saturation, and (2) maximum wing deflection. The pitch or yaw autopilot will saturate when the corresponding commanded lateral acceleration exceeds, say, $2 5 \ : g ^ { \prime } \mathrm { s }$ . This is predominant at low altitudes, where the missile maneuver is not aerodynamically limited. At high altitudes, the wing deflection required for turning increases, and its maximum value becomes the limiting parameter. When either type of limiting occurs, miss distance increases very rapidly.
