Guided Missile: In the guided class of missiles belong the aerodynamic guided missiles. That is, those missiles that use aerodynamic lift to control its direction of flight. An aerodynamic guided missile can be defined as an aerospace vehicle, with varying guidance∗ capabilities, that is self-propelled through the atmosphere for the purpose of inflicting damage on a designated target. Stated another way, an aerodynamic guided missile is one that has a winged configuration and is usually fired in a direction approximately towards a designated target and subsequently receives steering commands from the ground guidance system (or its own, onboard guidance, system) to improve its accuracy.

Guided missiles may either home to the target, or follow a nonhoming preset course. Homing missiles maybe active, semiactive, or passive. Nonhoming guided missiles are either inertially guided or preprogrammed [3]. (For more information, see Chapter 4.)

Unguided Missiles: Unguided missiles, which includes ballistic missiles, follow the natural laws of motion under gravity to establish a ballistic trajectory. Examples of unguided missiles are Honest John, Little John, and many artillery-type rockets. Note that an unguided missile is usually called a rocket and is normally not a threat to airborne aircraft. (See also Chapter 6 for more details.)

Typically, guided missiles are homing missiles, which include the following: (1) a propulsion system, (2) a warhead section, (3) a guidance system, and (4) one or more sensors (e.g., radar, sinfrared, electrooptical, lasers). Movable control surfaces are deflected by commands from the guidance system in order to direct the missile in flight; that is, the guidance system will place the missile on the proper trajectory to intercept the target.
