# 4.8.4 Optimal Control for Intercept Guidance

Linear quadratic theory is a subset of the general nonlinear optimal control theory. The key elements in the formulation are the same; that is, (1) a dynamical system model, (2) a performance index (or cost functional), and (3) appropriate constraints. The difference in formulation lies in the fact that for linear quadratic theory to be valid, the dynamical system model must be linear, the cost functional must be quadratic in nature, and only a limited set of constraints is allowed. The linearity assumption is the most severe for air-to-air missiles. Nonlinear aerodynamics, nonlinear equations of motion, and nonlinear kinematics are prevalent in air-to-air missiles.

We will now show that the optimal control law that minimizes the terminal miss distance turns out to be the proportional navigation guidance law. To this end, we will follow the works of [3], [4], and [17]. Before we proceed, certain assumptions are in order. First of all, it will be assumed that the engagement takes place in a plane. Second, we will assume that the target acceleration is zero; that is, $a _ { T } = 0$ (this assumption implies constant target velocity; note this is not true in an actual air-to-air engagement). The last assumption is that the control vector is the missile’s inertial acceleration $\left( { \bf u } \Delta { \bf a } _ { M } \right)$ ). In effect, this last assumption says that we have complete and immediate control over all three acceleration components $( \mathrm { i . e . , } a _ { x } , a _ { y } , a _ { z } )$ of the missile. The missile acceleration component along its centerline equals the thrust minus its axial drag, divided by the missile’s instantaneous mass. Here we note that the thrust is usually designed to maximize missile velocity early in the flight so that the time for the target evasive maneuvers is minimized. The nature of the above assumptions will become more obvious as we work a simplified example below.

The control input to be determined is the commanded missile lateral acceleration. Continuous control will be assumed in deriving the guidance laws, and it is desired to minimize the expected mean square of the miss distance subject to a penalty function on the total control energy. Therefore, the performance index to be minimized will be assumed to be given by [19],

$$J = y _ {d} ^ {2} (T) + \gamma \int_ {0} ^ {T} u _ {c} ^ {2} (t) d t, \tag {4.145}$$
