For the accomplishment of the ascent trajectory, one might employ a precomputed pitch time history, which has the desirable characteristics of low angle of attack (AOA) during high aerodynamic pressure. For a nonperturbed ascent trajectory, that is, a trajectory that results from standard predicted values of missile thrust, weight, lift, and drag, and that experiences no wind velocity, the standard pitch program produces standard time histories of missile position and velocity as a function of time. For a perturbed missile, however, nonstandard time histories of missile velocity and position occur along each coordinate of the guidance package. That is, $V _ { m x } , \ V _ { m y }$ , and $V _ { m z }$ exhibit nonstandard time histories in the presence of missile perturbations, although the pitch and yaw angles of the missile remain essentially unperturbed because they are controlled by feedback principles. Instead of controlling the yaw angle to zero, it seems natural to control the Y velocity-to-be-gained, $V _ { g y }$ , to zero (see Section 6.5.2). In other words, instead of feeding back a signal proportional to deviations in missile yaw angle, the signal to be controlled would be $V _ { g y }$ . Then, in the presence of thrust perturbations and winds, Y velocity-to-be-gained remains nulled, while of course, missile yaw angle adjusts itself to achieve this condition.

Programmed pitch control and/or velocity steering have been the customary choices for control of a rocket vehicle during exit from the atmosphere. Commonly, steering is effected by pitch and yaw commands determined from the gravity-free accelerations and velocities-to-be-gained. Therefore, one way to control the missile is to develop a steering law, based upon velocity in missile body coordinates. In particular, it would appear that the only body velocity parameter convenient for steering is the body coordinate velocity-to-be-gained. Although this choice provides a means for meeting the specification on control of velocity-to-be-gained, it also forces the exit trajectory to be subject to the variations in velocity-to-go caused by variation of target locations. This limitation, however, can be erased by commanding the pitch rate to be proportional to the difference between velocity-to-go and a time-varying bias instead of basing the command rate solely on velocity-to-be-gained. The result is a control law of the form
