# 2.1.4 Coordinate Transformations

There are three commonly used methods of expressing the orientation of one threeaxis coordinate system with respect to another. The three methods are (1) Euler angles, (2) direction cosines, and (3) quaternions. The Euler angle method, which is the conventional designation relating a moving-axis system to a fixed-axis system, is used frequently in missile and aircraft mechanizations and/or simulations. The common designations of the Euler angles are roll (φ), pitch (θ ), and yaw $( \psi )$ . Its strengths lie in a relatively simple mechanization in digital computer simulation of vehicle (i.e., missile or aircraft) dynamics. Another beneficial aspect of this technique is that the Euler angle rates and the Euler angles have an easily interpreted physical significance. The negative attribute to the Euler angle coordinate transformation method is the mathematical singularity that exists when the pitch angle θ approaches $9 0 ^ { \circ }$ . The direction cosine method yields the direction cosine matrix (DCM), which defines the transformation between a fixed frame, say frame a, and a rotating frame, say frame b, such as the vehicle body axes. Specifically, the DCM is an array of direction cosines expressed in the form

$$
C _ {a} ^ {b} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} c _ {1 1} & c _ {1 2} & c _ {1 3} \\ c _ {2 1} & c _ {2 2} & c _ {2 3} \\ c _ {3 1} & c _ {3 2} & c _ {3 3} \end{array} \right],
$$

where $c _ { j k }$ is the direction cosine between the jth axis in the a frame and the kth axis in the b frame. Since each axis system has three unit vectors, there are nine direction cosines. Direction cosines have the advantage of being free of any singularities such as arise in the Euler angle formulation at $9 0 ^ { \circ }$ pitch angle. The main disadvantage of this method is the number of equations that must be solved due to the constraint equations. (Note that by constraint equations we mean $c _ { 1 1 } = c _ { 2 2 } c _ { 3 3 } - c _ { 2 3 } c _ { 3 2 } , c _ { 2 1 } =$ c13c32 − c12c33, etc.)

In order to resolve the ambiguity resulting from the singularity in the Euler angle representation of rotations about the three axes, a four-parameter system was first developed by Euler in 1776. Subsequently, Hamilton modified it in 1843, and he named this system the quaternion system. Therefore, a quaternion [Q] is a quadruple of real numbers, which can be written as a three-dimensional vector. Hamilton adopted a vector notation in the form
