Present-day state-of-the-art avionics technology has enhanced the air-to-ground and air-to-air (AA) weapon delivery capabilities of fighter and/or attack aircraft. Modern fighter avionics systems support all-weather air-to-ground attack and air-toair combat missions. The weapon delivery system enables the pilot to deliver guided weapons, unguided bombs, laser-guided bombs and cluster bombs over a large delivery envelope with a high degree of accuracy. The system utilizes a digital computer for computation of the automatic release signal in conjunction with an inertial navigation system (INS); in modern fighter aircraft, a global positioning system (GPS) user set is also used, which is integrated with the INS for enhanced accuracy. Certain military missions, such as tactical and strategic intelligence, require precise navigation in order to provide real-time ground target positioning. Sensor control for pointing and mode management can be done only in conjunction with very tight and accurate navigation control, including velocity control for image motion compensation.

The weapon delivery system provides the capability to attack either preplanned or in-flight designated surface targets. If in-flight designation of the target is desired, a radar must be available for interfacing with the digital computer to provide the relative position of the target. Moreover, the weapon delivery system permits the pilot to attack a target at any dive angle, velocity, and attitude within the delivery envelopes of most attack aircraft. The heart of the weapon delivery design lies in the ballistic trajectory computation, which takes into account ballistic corrections for aircraft velocity, position, winds, Coriolis, gravitational variations, bomb separation effects, and centroid offset for multiple and ripple bombing. The accuracy of the predicted impact point of the bomb is ensured by providing extremely accurate position and velocity estimates from a GPS user set, if available. In a highly dynamic vehicle environment such as a fighter aircraft (e.g., F-15, F-16, F-18, and F-22∗ ), the GPS user set is augmented by an INS in order to maintain weapon delivery accuracy during high-acceleration maneuvers. When the predicted impact point approaches the target position, automatic ordnance release occurs under computer control.
