In a parallel effort, the Army expects to complete development tests of its Patriot PAC-3 ballistic missile and air-defense system in 2003 and initiate operational tests. Lockheed Martin has completed development testing and will turn the system over to the Army. As of this writing (2001) the system scored 12 successes out of 13 tests. For shorter-range threats, by 2004 the Army should have fielded its short-range PAC-3 system, which should have its first unit equipped before the end of 2003. A full-rate system production decision is planned for 2003. As stated above, the THAAD program, designed to counter missiles at greater range, should be in the late stages of development with a single operational system potentially ready for deployment in 2004/2005.

The USAF/BMDO sponsored Patriot advanced capability (PAC-3) SAM was flight tested in March 1999. This solid-rocket-motor-powered PAC-3 missile intercepted and destroyed an incoming tactical ballistic missile. Intercept of the RV target occurred at an altitude of 12 km (7.5 mi) after the target had flown downrange 350 km (217 mi). The PAC-3 flew for about 7 sec after launch and completed a nearly $9 0 ^ { \circ }$ maneuver in the final seconds prior to impact. Shortly before arriving at the point of interception, the missile’s $K _ { a }$ -band seeker acquired the target, selected the optimal aiming point, and initiated terminal guidance (the missile uses a closed-loop homing guidance system) to impact. The PAC-3 uses its high-speed and hit-to-kill (HTK) technology instead of blast/fragmentation warhead to destroy targets through direct body-to-body contact. The PAC-3 weapon system has been selected as the next-generation Patriot missile; IOC was scheduled for 2001. Moreover, the PAC-3 is designed to counter tactical ballistic missiles armed with biological weapons, maneuvering tactical missiles, and long-range targets such as aircraft, cruise missiles, and UAVs. In addition, it is capable of destroying incoming HARMs aimed at the Patriot launch sites. Technologies being examined for these systems include a high-data-rate ring laser gyro, a third-generation
