The powered flight is designed to place the vehicle in an appropriate trajectory so that upon thrust termination the missile will begin a free-fall orbit to the target.
As stated above, under powered flight, no guidance need be employed during this free-fall, since the trajectory will be fully predictable.

3. Reentry: The portion that begins at some point where the atmospheric drag becomes a significant force in determining the missile’s path and lasts until impact (i.e., target on the surface of the Earth). The reentry trajectory is determined to a great extent by the conditions of flight that obtain as the missile approaches the effective atmosphere of the Earth. Frequently, it is convenient to treat the reentry phase as terminal perturbation acting on the free-fall trajectory. The reentry phase of the trajectory should begin at an altitude of about 100,000 ft (30,480 m), where the dynamic pressure starts to significantly affect the motion of the missile. The computation of this trajectory phase involves knowledge of aerodynamic stability derivatives of the missile. It can be shown that the effects of reentry constitute only a perturbation to the free-flight trajectory. The importance of this phase of flight to navigation and guidance arises from the high accelerations that are experienced by the missile on reentry. In particular, the extremely high heating rates that are obtained during this flight limit the reentry trajectories that are permissible for any given missile configuration. While the transition from powered flight to free-fall is abrupt, the transition from free-fall to reentry flight is more gradual as a result of the builtup of air density as the missile penetrates the atmosphere. It should be noted here that the reentry point is not defined precisely.

These three phases of a ballistic missile’s flight are illustrated in Figure 6.1 [2].

In this section we will discuss certain geometric properties of elliptic motion under a central attraction force and the two-body problem. The discussion presented in this section is useful in the development of Lambert’s theorem, which will be discussed in Section 6.3. Specifically, we will begin our discussion with the development of the polar equation of a conic section (for more details on conic sections, see Appendix G).
