An inertial navigation and guidance system makes use of Newton’s second law of motion, which states, “An unbalanced force acting on a body causes the body to accelerate in the direction of the force, and the acceleration is directly proportional to the unbalanced force and inversely proportional to the mass of the body.” The three basic elements of any inertial system relating to a specific flight problem are accelerometers, gyroscopes, and memory devices. Even the most sophisticated of inertial guidance systems (i.e., systems using ring laser gyros, fiber-optic gyros, and microelectromechanical sensors or systems (MEMS)) today have some counterpart to these basic elements. At the present time, there is very little that can be done to divert or destroy ballistic missiles, which are capable of traveling over intercontinental distances and at hypersonic speeds. Technological developments are in progress. Such developments are, for example, energy weapons (e.g., laser beams) that can be used to intercept and destroy such missiles (for more details see Section 6.9). The ABM (antiballistic missile) is designed to provide limited protection in this area.

In addition to the United States, other nations are developing ballistic missiles. Specifically, China is developing a multiple-warhead system that could be deployed on its Dong Feng DF-41 ICBM, with a range goal of up to 12,000 km (7,456.8 miles). Also, China’s DF-31, which has been successfully test-fired, has a singlewarhead capacity and a range of about 8,000 km (4,971.2 miles). China is continuing the improvement of the medium-range (600 km, 372.8 miles) M-9 and short-range (300 km, 186.4 miles) M-11 ballistic missiles.
