Command Guidance: Command guided missiles are missiles whose guidance instructions or commands come from sources outside the missile.
In this type of guidance, a tracking system that is separated from the missile is used to track both the missile and the target.
Therefore, a missile seeker is not required in command guidance.
The tracking system may consist of two separate tracking units, one for the missile and one for the target aircraft, or it may consist of one tracking unit that tracks both vehicles.
The tracking can be accomplished using radar, optical, laser, or infrared systems.
A radar beacon or infrared flare on the tail of the missile can be used to provide information to the tracking system on the location of the missile.
The target and missile ranges, elevations, and bearings are fed to a computer.
Consequently, using the position and position rate information (i.e., range and range rate), the computer determines the flight path the interceptor missile should take that will result in a collision with the target.
That is, a computer at the launch point determines whether the interceptor missile is on the proper trajectory to intercept the target.
If it is not, steering commands are generated by the ground computer and transmitted to the in-flight missile.
Furthermore, the computer compares this computed flight path with the predicted flight path of the missile based on current tracking information, and determines the correction signals required to move the missile control surfaces to change the current flight path to the new one.
These signals are the command guidance and are sent to the missile receiver via either the missile tracking system or a separate command link, such as radio.
In addition to the steering instructions, the command link may be required to transfer other instructions to the missile, such as fuse arming, receiver gain setting, and warhead detonation.
Finally, in command guidance, the launch point commands the missile.
Command guidance all the way to the target is used mostly with short-range missile systems because of the relatively large tracking errors that occur at long range.
The NIKE family uses this type of guidance.
Also, the Army’s PATRIOT MIM-104 airdefense missile uses a modified version of command guidance, in which only one radar is needed.
