# 6.5.1 Correlated Velocity

In Section 6.4.2 we developed an equation (i.e., (6.89)) for the velocity required of the missile at burnout in order to hit a given target. This required velocity is also referred to as the correlated velocity. In this section, we shall therefore adapt the term correlated velocity. We begin our development by considering a body whose free-fall motion is governed by a central force field. Let r denote the current position vector, and $\mathbf { r } _ { t }$ the target (or second position) position, and let a unique time-of-flight $t _ { f f }$ also be specified. The correlated velocity vector ${ \bf V } _ { c }$ is the velocity that the body must have at the position r such that if acted on only by the central force, it would arrive by free fall at $\mathbf { r } _ { t }$ (the target) in $t _ { f f }$ seconds. The correlated velocity vector $\mathbf { V } _ { c }$ constrains the total time-of-flight of the missile to be constant. As a result, this definition eliminates the bothersome problem of accounting for the motion of the target due to the Earth’s rotation.

The solution for $\mathbf { V } _ { c }$ inevitably involves an iteration to determine some parameter (e.g., time-of-flight) that leads to a value for $\mathbf { V } _ { c }$ . Several choices for the iteration parameter have been proposed, and one from the various possibilities is described in [3]. To recapitulate, then, the vector ${ \bf V } _ { c }$ is defined to be the velocity vector that would be required by the missile at the specified position and time in order that it might travel thereafter by free fall in vacuum into a desired condition. For the particular application considered, the “desired terminal condition” is coincidence of the missile and a target on the Earth’s surface (neglecting, of course, atmospheric effects during reentry). To make the definition of ${ \bf V } _ { c }$ unique in this case, a further condition must be stipulated, such as the time at which the missile and target shall coincide.
