With regard to airspeed errors, the Department of Defense has approved the production of a wind-corrected munitions dispenser (WCMD). The program was started in 1994 as one of four selected Air Force “lead” programs. In essence, the WCMD is an inertial guidance tail kit that can be installed on existing “dumb” cluster munitions to transform them into “smart,” accurate, adverse-weather weapons. The tail kits will be used on the CBU-87 combined effects munition, the CBU-89 Gator Mine System, and the CBU-97 sensor fused weapon. These weapons will be integrated on the F-16 Fighting Falcon, F-15E Strike Eagle, B-1B Lancer, A-10 Thunderbolt II, F-117 Nighthawk, B-52H Stratofortress, JSF, and perhaps the F/A-22 Raptor. The WCMD gives combat crews a significant new capability. With existing “dumb” cluster weapons to be effective, aircrews will need to deliver the munitions from low altitudes, making the aircrews extremely vulnerable to enemy air defenses. During Desert Storm, when aircrews tried launching these cluster weapons from high altitudes, the munitions were blown off course by winds or wandered off course due to launch alignment or ballistic errors. Using an inertial navigation unit, WCMD solves the problem by allowing very high altitude delivery. Specifically, altitudes of up to 45,000 ft (13,716 m) have been demonstrated. The Air Force is also pursuing the development of a 250-lb-class weapon, the Small-Diameter Bomb (SDB) program. Moreover, the Air Force would like to mount a GPS/INS guidance kit on 250-kg bombs, which would increase the number of targets that could be engaged by platforms like the B-52H bomber.
