# 6.4.3.2 Out-of-Plane Error Coefficients

The perturbations at the initial point normal to the plane of the nominal trajectory propagate at the endpoint of the trajectory into errors in position and velocity that are also normal to the plane. As in the case of the in-plane perturbations, which produced only in-plane errors, the out-of-plane perturbations produce only out-of-plane errors. Here it is important to note that there is no cross coupling between in-plane and outof-plane perturbations to first order. The derivations of the out-of-plane coefficients are somewhat simpler than the derivations of the in-plane coefficients because the former are treated geometrically, whereas the latter become complicated due to the necessity of including the effects of time.

The justification for handling the out-of-plane errors geometrically hinges upon the fact that first-order small perturbations in travel time along the trajectory (i.e., arising from burnout perturbations) create first-order small errors in in-plane position and velocity, whereas the same type of first-order small perturbations in travel time along the trajectory create only second-order errors in the out-of-plane position and velocity. Hence, the time perturbation in the out-of-plane travel time along the trajectory creates only second-order errors in the out-of-plane position and velocity. Therefore, the time perturbation in the out-of-plane case can be neglected. There can be two perturbations at the initial point normal to the plane of the nominal trajectory. These are $\delta n$ , the position perturbation, and $\delta V _ { n }$ , the velocity perturbation normal to the plane. Each of these gives rise to errors at the end time $t _ { 1 }$ in lateral position L and lateral velocity $V _ { L }$ . Hence, there are four out-of-plane error coefficients, which when written in a notation consistent with the in-plane case are as follows:

$$(\partial \mathbf {L} / \partial n) _ {\hat {n}}, (\partial \mathbf {L} / \partial V _ {n}) _ {\hat {n}}, \mathrm{and} (\partial \mathbf {V} _ {L} / \partial n) _ {\hat {n}}, (\partial \mathbf {V} _ {L} / \partial V _ {n}) _ {\hat {n}},$$

where $\hat { n }$ is a unit vector normal in a right-hand sense to the trajectory plane.
