Ballistic missiles belong to the strategic missile class, and are characterized by their trajectory. A ballistic missile trajectory is composed of three parts (for more details, see Chapter 6). These are (1) the powered flight portion, which lasts from launch to thrust cutoff (or burnout); (2) the free-flight portion, which constitutes most of the trajectory, and (3) the reentry portion, which begins at some point (not defined precisely) where the atmospheric drag becomes a significant force in determining the missile’s path and lasts until impact on the surface of the Earth (i.e., a target). Typically, ballistic missiles rely on one or more boosters and an initial steering vector. Once in flight, they maintain this vector with the aid of gyroscopes. Therefore, a ballistic missile may be defined as a missile that is guided during the powered portion of the flight by deflecting the thrust vector, becoming a free-falling body after engine cutoff. However, as already noted, in ballistic missiles part of the guidance occurs before launch. Hence, prelaunch errors translate directly into miss distance. One important feature of these missiles is that they are roll stabilized, resulting in simplification of the analysis, since there is no coupling between the longitudinal and the lateral modes. Ballistic missiles are the type least likely to be intercepted. A ballistic missile can have surprising accuracy. Ballistic missiles can be classified according to their range. That is, short range (e.g., up to 300 nm (nautical miles) or 556 km), intermediate range (e.g., 2500 nm or 4632.5 km), and long range (over 2500 nm or 4632.5 km). Examples of these classes are as follows: (1) short range – Pershing, Sergeant, and Hawk class; (2) intermediate range – Thor, Jupiter, and Polaris/Poseidon/Trident, and (3) long range – Minuteman I–III, the MX, and Titan missiles. Note that ballistic missiles capable of attaining very long ranges (e.g., over 5000 nm) or intercontinental range, are given the ICBM designator [2], [4]. Recently, the U.S. Air Force formulated plans for a new ICBM, likely to be named Minuteman IV. A possible start development date is for the year(s) 2004–2005. Among the enhancements being examined are communications upgrades, an additional postboost vehicle that could maneuver the warhead after separation from the missile, and a new rocket motor.
