In the early part of 1999, the U.S. Air Force expressed the desire for a new bomber-launched cruise missile, with six times the range of weapons currently under development (as stated earlier, the current CALCM range is 650 miles), to replace the aging Boeing-made CALCMs that once carried nuclear warheads. A possible replacement for the CALCM is the 14-ft-long joint air-to-surface standoff missile (JASSM). The JASSM is a joint Air Force–Navy program. JASSM is a stealthy, nextgeneration precision cruise missile designed for launch outside area defenses, which can penetrate enemy air defenses at ranges of 300 miles or more. JASSM is designed to destroy high-value, well-defended, fixed and moving targets. Containing an advanced GPS/INS guidance system, which is coupled with a terminal seeker, the JASSM is capable of aimpoint detection, tracking, and striking. As presently designed, the JASSM has only a 300-mile range. However, a study underway recommends extending the range to 1,000 miles, which should give defense planners the desired tactical flexibility. An extended-range version of the JASSM is also planned. Known as JASSM-ER, this weapon would benefit the B-1B bomber force. However, the JASSM, with its 1,000–2,000-lb-class warhead and shorter range, can be considered as complementary to the CALCM, with its blast/fragmentation warhead. The AF is studying the possibility of using the Lockheed Martin Advanced Unitary Penetrator (AUP) warhead in the Calcms. Furthermore, in July 1999 the AF tested a Calcm with a 1,000-lb AUP warhead. The AUP is a purely kinetic energy driven warhead. Note that producing any greater ranges for the JASSM would likely require reduction in the warhead size to 500 lb. A replacement for the CALCM would optimally have a 3,000-lb warhead. Note that some of the new CALCMs that have been built will have penetrator warheads, while the rest will use the standard 3,000-lb-class blast/fragmentation warhead.
