In generating $\Delta \mathbf { V } _ { g }$ to be integrated, a crude approximation to the standard time history of $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ can be used. Figure 6.25 illustrates the generation of $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ .

In comparison with Figure 6.23, the above system has no gravity computation, no target position computation, and no explicit computation of the missile velocity or position or of the desired velocity. Additional integrators will be required in the 
Q computer if position corrections are required.

In typical missile applications, the vector $Q \mathbf { V } _ { g }$ has a magnitude less than one g at launch and decreases throughout the flight to zero at cut-off. As opposed to that, aT will be greater than one g at launch, and will increase throughout each stage of the flight, usually to many $\mathrm { g ^ { \prime } s }$ near burnout or cut-off. Thus, $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ is nearly equal to $\mathbf { a } _ { T }$ . This approximation becomes increasingly good toward the end of the powered flight when guidance control becomes of greatest importance. The orientation of $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ can thus be controlled by controlling the orientation of $\mathbf { a } _ { T }$ , which, especially in the latter part of powered flight when aerodynamic forces are trivial, is on average along the longitudinal axis of the missile. It is therefore clear that control over the orientation of the change of $\mathbf { V } _ { g } , - ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ , can be exercised directly by controlling the orientation of the missile. For control purposes, $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ can be aligned with $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ by commanding the missile to rotate so as to drive toward null the component of $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ that is normal to $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ . An indication of the component of one vector that is normal to another is given by the cross product of the two vectors. For small angles, the magnitude of the cross product of $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ and $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ is proportional to the product of the magnitudes of the two vectors and the angle between them. The direction of this cross product is the axis about which $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ must be rotated so as to turn it directly into $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ . Thus, the cross product relation $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t ) \times \mathbf { V } _ { g }$ is a very useful control parameter in that it is a proportional measure of the angle that separates $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ from $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ and indicates by its direction the direction of the rotation that will carry $- ( d \mathbf { V } _ { g } / d t )$ into $\mathbf { V } _ { g }$ . If the missile is commanded to take an angular velocity proportional to this control parameter, there results the familiar positional servo loop that tends to reduce the error at a rate proportional to the error.
