The reason for the terminal constraint is precisely the fact that the terminal penalty is usually merely a local CLF requiring the terminal state to lie in the region where the CLF is valid. Unlike the addition of a terminal penalty, however, addition of a terminal constraint may increase complexity considerably. Because efficient programs exist for solving QPs, in which the cost function to be minimized is quadratic and the constraints polyhedral, there is an argument for using polyhedral constraints. Indeed, a potential terminal constraint set for the constrained linear quadratic optimal control problem is the maximal constraint admissible set, which is polyhedral. This set is complex, however, i.e., defined by many linear inequalities, and would appear to be unsuitable for the complex control problems routinely encountered in industry.

A terminal constraint set that is considerably simpler is a suitable sublevel set of the terminal penalty, which is often a simple positive definite quadratic function resulting in a convex terminal constraint set. A disadvantage is that the terminal constraint set is now ellipsoidal rather than polytopic and conventional quadratic programs cannot be employed for the linear quadratic constrained optimal control problem. This does not appear to be a serious disadvantage, however, because the optimal control problem remains convex, so interior point methods may be readily employed.

In the nonlinear case, adding an ellipsoidal terminal constraint set does not appreciably affect the complexity of the optimal control problem. In any case, it is possible to replace the ellipsoidal terminal constraint set by a suitable modification of the terminal penalty as shown in Section 2.6.1. A more serious problem, when the system is nonlinear, is that the optimal control problem is then usually nonconvex so that global solutions, on which many theoretical results are predicated, are usually too difficult to obtain. A method for dealing with this difficulty, which also has the advantage of reducing online complexity, is suboptimal MPC described in Section 2.8.
