But notice that this same argument establishes that $\boldsymbol { \chi } _ { N - 1 }$ is also positive invariant for the closed-loop system, a fact that does not seem to have been noticed previously. Since $\mathcal { X } _ { N - 1 } \subseteq \mathcal { X } _ { N }$ , this statement is a tighter characterization of the positive invariance property. This tighter characterization is sometimes useful when establishing robust stability for systems with discontinuous $V _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ , such as Example 2.8. Among the feasibility sets, $\mathcal { X } _ { j } , j = 0 , 1 , \ldots , N _ $ , the set $x _ { N }$ is the largest positive invariant set and $\boldsymbol { \chi } _ { N - 1 }$ is the smallest positive invariant set for $x ^ { + } = f ( x , \kappa _ { N } ( x ) )$ ; none of the other feasibility sets, $\mathcal { X } _ { j } , j = 0 , 1 , \dotsc , N - 2$ , are necessarily positive invariant for $x ^ { + } = f ( x , \kappa _ { N } ( x ) )$ for all systems satisfying the given assumptions. A modified Proposition 2.11 reads as follows.

Proposition 2.11’ (Existence of solutions to DP recursion). Suppose Assumptions 2.2 and 2.3 hold. Then

(a) For all $j \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ , the cost function $V _ { j } ( \cdot )$ is continuous in ${ \mathcal { Z } } _ { j } ,$ , and, for each $x \in \mathcal { X } _ { j } ,$ , the control constraint set $\mathcal { U } _ { j } ( x )$ is compact and a solution $\mathbf { u } ^ { 0 } ( x ) \in \mathcal { U } _ { j } ( x ) \ t o \ \mathbb { P } _ { j } ( x )$ exists.

(b) $I f \mathcal { X } _ { 0 } : = \mathbb { X } _ { f }$ is control invariant for $\mathbf { \Phi } ^ { \prime } ( x ^ { + } = f ( x , u ) , u \in \mathbb { U }$ , then, for each $j \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ , the set $\chi _ { j }$ is also control invariant, $\mathscr X _ { j } \equiv \mathscr X _ { j - 1 } , 0 \in \mathscr X _ { j }$ , and $\chi _ { j }$ is closed.

(c) In addition, the sets $\chi _ { j }$ and $\boldsymbol { \mathcal { X } } _ { j - 1 }$ are positive invariant f $) r x ^ { + } = f ( x , \kappa _ { j } ( x ) )$ for all $j \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 1 }$ .
