# 2.10 Concluding Comments

MPC is an implementation, for practical reasons, of receding horizon control (RHC), in which offline determination of the RHC law $\kappa _ { N } ( \cdot )$ is replaced by online determination of its value $\kappa _ { N } ( x )$ , the control action, at each state x encountered during its operation. Because the optimal control problem that defines the control is a finite horizon problem, neither stability nor optimality of the cost function is achieved by a receding horizon or model predictive controller. This chapter shows how stability may be achieved by adding a terminal cost function and a terminal constraint to the optimal control problem. Adding a terminal cost function adds little or no complexity to the optimal control problem that has to be solved online and usually improves performance. Indeed, the infinite horizon value function $V _ { \infty } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ for the constrained problem would be an ideal choice for the terminal penalty because the value function $V _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ for the online optimal control problem would then be equal to $V _ { \infty } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ and the controller would inherit the performance advantages of the infinite horizon controller. In addition, the actual trajectories of the controlled system would be precisely equal, in the absence of uncertainty, to those predicted by the online optimizer. Of course, if we knew $V _ { \infty } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ , the optimal infinite horizon controller $\kappa _ { \infty } ( \cdot )$

could be determined and there would be no reason to employ MPC. The infinite horizon cost $V _ { \infty } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ is known globally only for special cases, however, such as the linear quadratic unconstrained problem. For more general problems in which constraints and/or nonlinearity are present, its value, or approximate value, in a neighborhood of the setpoint can usually be obtained and the use of this local CLF should, in general, enhance performance. Adding a terminal cost appears to be generally advantageous.
