The standard UKF achieves results similar to the EKF as shown in Figure 4.5 (top). Vachhani, Narasimhan, and Rengaswamy (2006) have proposed a modification to the UKF to handle constrained systems. In this approach, the sigma points that violate the constraints are scaled back to the feasible region boundaries and the sigma point weights are modified accordingly. If this constrained version of the UKF is applied to this case study, the estimates do not significantly improve as shown in Figure 4.5 (bottom). The UKF formulations used here are based on the algorithm presented by Vachhani et al. (2006, Sections 3 and 4) with the tuning parameter κ set to κ = 1. Adjusting this parameter using other suggestions from the literature (Julier and Uhlmann, 1997; Qu and Hahn, 2009; Kandepu, Imsland, and Foss, 2008) and trial and error does not substantially improve the UKF estimator performance. Better performance is obtained in this example if the sigma points that violate the constraints are simply saturated rather than rescaled to the feasible region boundaries. This form of clipping still does not prevent the occurrence of negative concentrations in this example, however. Negative concentration estimates are not avoided by either scaling or clipping of the sigma points. As a solution to this problem, the use of constrained optimization for the sigma points is proposed (Vachhani et al., 2006; Teixeira, Tˆorres, Aguirre, and Bernstein, 2008). If one is willing to perform online optimization, however, MHE with a short horizon is likely to provide more accurate estimates at similar computational cost compared to approaches based on optimizing the locations of the sigma points.

Finally, Figure 4.6 presents typical results of applying constrained MHE to this example. For this simulation we choose N = 10 and the smoothing update for the arrival cost approximation. Note that MHE recovers well from the poor initial prior. Comparable performance is obtained if the filtering update is used instead of the smoothing update to approximate the arrival cost. The MHE estimates are also insensitive to the choice of horizon length N for this example. -
