# 6.6 Notes

At least three different fields have contributed substantially to the material presented in this chapter. We attempt here to point out briefly what each field has contributed, and indicate what literature the interested reader may wish to consult for further pursuing this and related subjects.

Game theory. Game theory emerged in the mid-1900s to analyze situations in which multiple players follow a common set of rules but have their own and different objectives that they try to optimize in competition with each other. Von Neumann and Morgenstern introduced the classic text on this subject, “Theory of Games and Economic Behavior,” in 1944. A principle aim of game theory since its inception was to model and understand human economic behavior, especially as it arises in a capitalistic, free-market system. For that reason, much of the subsequent game theory literature was published in economics journals rather than systems theory journals. This field has contributed richly to the ideas and vocabulary used in this chapter to describe distributed control. For example, the game in which players have different objectives is termed noncooperative. The equilibrium of a noncooperative game is known as a Nash equilibrium (Nash, 1951). The Nash equilibrium is usually not Pareto optimal, which means that the outcomes for all players can be improved simultaneously from the Nash solution. A comprehensive overview of the game theory literature, especially the parts relevant to control theory, is provided by Ba¸sar and Olsder (1999, Chapter 1), which is a highly recommended reference. Analyzing the equilibria of a noncooperative game is usually more complex than the cooperative game (optimal control problem). The closed-loop properties of a receding horizon implementation of any of these game theory solutions is not addressed in game theory. That topic is addressed by control theory.
