# 2.1 Introduction

In Chapter 1 we investigated a special, but useful, form of model predictive control (MPC); an important feature of this form of MPC is that there exists a set of initial states for which it is actually optimal for an infinite horizon optimal control problem and therefore inherits the associated advantages. Just as there are many methods other than infinite horizon linear quadratic control for stabilizing linear systems, however, there are alternative forms of MPC that can stabilize linear and even nonlinear systems. We explore these alternatives in the remainder of this chapter. But first we place MPC in a more general setting to facilitate comparison with other control methods.

MPC is, as we have seen earlier, a form of control in which the control action is obtained by solving online, at each sampling instant, a finite horizon optimal control problem in which the initial state is the current state of the plant. Optimization yields a finite control sequence, and the first control action in this sequence is applied to the plant. MPC differs, therefore, from conventional control in which the control law is precomputed offline. But this is not an essential difference; MPC implicitly implements a control law that can, in principle, be computed offline as we shall soon see. Specifically, if the current state of the system being controlled is x, MPC obtains, by solving an open-loop optimal control problem for this initial state, a specific control action u to apply to the plant.
