# 3.1.4 Tubes

The approach that we adopt is motivated by the following observation. Both open-loop and feedback control generate, in the presence of uncertainty, a bundle or tube of trajectories, each trajectory in the bundle or tube corresponding to a particular realization of the uncertainty. In Figure 3.1(a), the tube corresponding to $\mathbf { u } = \mathbf { u } ^ { 0 } ( { x } )$ and initial state $x \ = \ 1$ , is $\{ X _ { 0 } , X _ { 1 } , X _ { 2 } , X _ { 3 } \}$ where $X _ { 0 } ~ = ~ \{ 1 \}$ ; for each i, $X _ { i } = \{ \phi ( i ; x , \mathbf { u } , \mathbf { w } ) \mid \mathbf { w } \in \mathcal { W } \}$ , the set of states at time i generated by all possible realizations of the disturbance sequence. State constraints must be satisfied by every trajectory in the tube. Control of uncertain systems is best viewed as control of tubes rather than trajectories; the designer chooses, for each initial state, a tube in which all realizations of the state trajectory are controlled to lie. By suitable choice of the tube, satisfaction of state and control constraints may be guaranteed for every realization of the disturbance sequence.

Determination of an exact tube $\{ X _ { 0 } , X _ { 1 } , \ldots \}$ corresponding to a given initial state x and policy µ is difficult even for linear systems, however, and virtually impossible for nonlinear systems. Hence, in the sequel, we show how simple tubes that bound all realizations of the state trajectory may be constructed. For example, for linear systems with convex constraints, a tube $\{ X _ { 0 } , X _ { 1 } , \ldots , \}$ , where for each i, $X _ { i } = \{ z ( i ) \} \oplus Z , z ( i )$ is the state at time i of a deterministic system, $X _ { i }$ is a polytope, and Z is a positive invariant set, may be designed to bound all realizations of the state trajectory. The exact tube lies inside this simple approximation. Using this construction permits robust model predictive controllers to be designed with not much more computation than that required for deterministic systems.
