# 2.4.7 Controllability and Observability

We have not yet made any assumptions on controllability (stabilizability) or observability (detectability) of the system (2.1) being controlled, which may be puzzling since such assumptions are commonly required in optimal control to, for example, establish existence of a solution to the optimal control problem. The reasons for this omission are that such assumptions are implicitly required, at least locally, for the basic stability Assumption 2.12, and that we restrict attention to $x _ { N }$ , the set of states that can be steered to $\mathbb { X } _ { f }$ in N steps satisfying all constraints.

For example, one version of MPC uses a target set $\mathbb { X } _ { f } ~ = ~ \{ 0 \}$ , so that the optimal control problem requires determination of an optimal trajectory terminating at the origin; clearly some assumption on controllability to the origin such as Assumption 2.23 is required. Similarly, if the system being controlled is linear, and the constraints polytopic or polyhedral, a common choice for $\mathbb { X } _ { f }$ is the maximal invariant constraint admissible set for a controlled system where the controller is linear and stabilizing. The terminal constraint set $\mathbb { X } _ { f }$ is then the set $\{ x \ | \ x ( i ) \ \in \mathbb { X } , K x ( i ) \ \in \ \mathbb { U } \}$ where $x ( i )$ is the solution at time i of $x ^ { + } = ( A + B K ) x$ , and $u = \kappa _ { f } ( x ) = K x$ is a stabilizing control law. Stabilizability of the system being controlled is then required; see Section C.3 of Appendix C for a brief exposition of invariant sets.

Detectability assumptions also are required, mainly in proofs of asymptotic or exponential stability. For example, if the stage cost satisfies $\ell ( x , u ) = ( 1 / 2 ) ( | y | ^ { 2 } + | u | _ { R } ^ { 2 } )$ where $y = C x$ , the stability proofs commonly establish that $y ( k ) = C x ( k )$ tends to zero as k tends to infinity. To deduce from this fact that $x ( k ) \to 0$ requires a detectability assumption on the system $x ^ { + } = f ( x , u ) , y = C x$ . If C is invertible, as we sometimes assume, the system is detectable (since $y ( k ) \to 0$ implies $x ( k ) \to 0 )$ .

The requisite assumptions of stabilizability and detectability are made later in the context of discussing specific forms of MPC.
