The first part of the definition ensures that converging disturbances lead to converging estimates. The second part provides a bound on the transient estimate error given a bound on the disturbances. Note also that robust GAS implies GAS (see also Exercise 4.9). With the pieces in place, we can state the main result of this section.

Theorem 4.8 (Robust GAS of full information estimates). Given an i-IOSS (detectable) system and measurement sequence generated by (4.1) with disturbances satisfying Assumption 4.3, then the full information estimate with stage cost satisfying Assumption 4.5 is robustly GAS.

Proof.

(a) First we establish that the full information cost is bounded for all $T \geq 1$ including $T = \infty$ . Consider a candidate set of decision variables

$$\chi (0) = x _ {0} \quad \omega (i) = w (i) \quad 0 \leq i \leq T - 1$$

The full information cost for this choice is

$$V _ {T} (\chi (0), \boldsymbol {\omega}) = \ell_ {x} (x _ {0} - \overline {{x}} _ {0}) + \sum_ {i = 0} ^ {T - 1} \ell_ {i} (w (i), v (i))$$

From Remark 4.4, the sum is bounded for all T including the limit $T =$ ∞. Therefore, let $V _ { \infty }$ be an upper bound for the right-hand side. The optimal cost exists for all $T \geq 0$ because $V _ { T }$ is a continuous function and goes to infinity as any of its arguments goes to infinity due to the lower bounds in Assumption 4.5. Next we show that the optimal cost sequence converges. Evaluate the cost at time $T - 1$ using the optimal solution from time T . We have that

$$V _ {T - 1} (\hat {\boldsymbol {x}} (0 | T), \hat {\mathbf {w}} _ {T}) = V _ {T} ^ {0} - \ell_ {T} (\hat {\boldsymbol {w}} (T | T), \hat {\boldsymbol {v}} (T | T))$$

Optimization at time $T - 1$ can only improve the cost giving

$$V _ {T} ^ {0} \geq V _ {T - 1} ^ {0} + \ell_ {T} (\hat {\boldsymbol {w}} (T | T), \hat {\boldsymbol {v}} (T | T))$$

and we see that the optimal sequence $\{ V _ { T } ^ { 0 } \}$ is nondecreasing and bounded above by $V _ { \infty }$ . Therefore the sequence converges and the convergence implies

$$\ell_ {T} (\hat {w} (T | T), \hat {v} (T | T)) \to 0$$

as $T \to \infty$ . The lower bound in (4.5) then gives that $\hat { \nu } ( T ) = y ( T ) -$ $h ( { \hat { x } } ( T | T ) ) \to 0$ and ${ \hat { w } } ( T | T ) \to 0$ as $T \to \infty$ . Since the measurement satisfies $y = h ( x ) + \nu$ , and $\nu \left( T \right)$ converges to zero, we have that

$$h (x (T)) - h (\hat {x} (T | T)) \rightarrow 0 \quad \hat {w} (T | T) \rightarrow 0 \quad T \rightarrow \infty$$
