The computation of approximations to robust invariant sets that are themselves invariant is discussed in a series of papers by Rakovi´c and colleagues (Rakovi´c et al., 2003, 2005a;
Rakovi´c, Mayne, Kerrigan, and Kouramas, 2005b;
Kouramas, Rakovi´c, Kerrigan, Allwright, and Mayne, 2005).
The tube-based controllers described previously are based on the papers (Langson, Chryssochoos, Rakovi´c, and Mayne, 2004;
Mayne, Seron, and Rakovi´c, 2005).

Because robust MPC is still an active area of research, other methods for achieving robustness have been proposed. Diehl, Bock, and Kostina (2006) simplify the robust nonlinear MPC problem by using linearization, also employed in (Nagy and Braatz, 2004), and present some efficient numerical procedures to determine an approximately optimal control sequence. Goulart, Kerrigan, and Maciejowski (2006) propose a control that is an affine function of current and past states; the decision variables are the associated parameters. This method subsumes the tube-based controllers described in this chapter and has the advantage that a separate nominal trajectory is not required. A disadvantage is the increased complexity of the decision variable, although an efficient computational procedure that reduces computational time per iteration from $O ( N ^ { 6 } )$ to $O ( N ^ { 3 } )$ has been developed by Goulart, Kerrigan, and Ralph (2008).

Considerable attention has recently been given to input-to-state stability of uncertain systems. Thus Limon, Alamo, Raimondo, de la Pena, ˜ Bravo, and Camacho (2008) present the theory of input-to-state stability as a unifying framework for robust MPC, generalizes the tubebased MPC described in (Langson et al., 2004), and extends existing results on min-max MPC. Another example of research in this vein is the paper by Lazar, de la Pena, Hemeels, and Alamo (2008) that utilizes ˜ input-to-state practical stability to establish robust stability of feedback min-max MPC. A different approach is described by Angeli, Casavola, Fran\`ze, and Mosca (2008) where it is shown how to construct, for each time i, an ellipsoidal inner approximation $\mathscr { F } _ { i }$ to the set $\mathcal { T } _ { i }$ of states that can be robustly steered in i steps to a robust control invariant set $\mathcal { T }$ . All that is required from the online controller is the determination of
