Both authors would like to thank the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering of the University of Wisconsin for hosting DQM’s visits to Madison during the preparation of this monograph. Funding from the Paul A. Elfers Professorship provided generous financial support.

JBR would like to acknowledge the graduate students with whom he has had the privilege to work on model predictive control topics: Rishi Amrit, Dennis Bonn´e, John Campbell, John Eaton, Peter Findeisen, Rolf Findeisen, Eric Haseltine, John Jørgensen, Nabil Laachi, Scott Meadows, Scott Middlebrooks, Steve Miller, Ken Muske, Brian Odelson, Murali Rajamani, Chris Rao, Brett Stewart, Kaushik Subramanian, Aswin Venkat, and Jenny Wang. He would also like to thank many colleagues with whom he has collaborated on this subject: Frank Allg¨ower, Tom Badgwell, Bhavik Bakshi, Don Bartusiak, Larry Biegler, Moritz Diehl, Jim Downs, Tom Edgar, Brian Froisy, Ravi Gudi, Sten Bay Jørgensen, Jay Lee, Fernando Lima, Wolfgang Marquardt, Gabriele Pannocchia, Joe Qin, Harmon Ray, Pierre Scokaert, Sigurd Skogestad, Tyler Soderstrom, Steve Wright, and Robert Young.

DQM would like to thank his colleagues at Imperial College, especially Richard Vinter and Martin Clark, for providing a stimulating and congenial research environment. He is very grateful to Lucien Polak and Graham Goodwin with whom he has collaborated extensively and fruitfully over many years; he would also like to thank many other colleagues, especially Karl Astr ˚ ¨om, Roger Brockett, Larry Ho, Petar Kokotovic and Art Krener, from whom he has learnt much. He is grateful to past students who have worked with him on model predictive control: Ioannis Chrysochoos, Wilbur Langson, Hannah Michalska, Sasa Rakovi´c and Warren Schroeder; Hannah Michalska and Sasa Rakovi´c, in particular, contributed very substantially. He owes much to these past students, now colleagues, as well as to Frank Allg¨ower, Rolf Findeisen Eric Kerrigan, Konstantinos Kouramus, Chris Rao, Pierre Scokaert, and Maria Seron for their collaborative research in MPC.

Both authors would especially like to thank Tom Badgwell, Bob Bird, Eric Kerrigan, Ken Muske, Gabriele Pannocchia, and Maria Seron for their careful and helpful reading of parts of the manuscript. John Eaton

again deserves special mention for his invaluable technical support during the entire preparation of the manuscript.
