# Chapter 2. Model Predictive Control — Regulation

MPC stability results with the KL definition of asymptotic stability. Since Lyapunov’s foundational work, asymptotic stability traditionally has been defined with two fundamental conditions: (i) local stability and (ii) attractivity. Control and systems texts using this classical definition include Khalil (2002, p. 112) and Vidyasagar (1993, p. 141). The classical definition was used mainly in stating and proving the stability theorems appearing in the Appendix B corresponding to the first printing of the text. Recently, however, a stronger definition of asymptotic stability, which we refer to here as the “KL” definition, has started to become popular. These two definitions are compared and contrasted in a later section of this postface (see Appendix B – Stability Theory). We used the KL definition of asymptotic stability to define state estimator stability in Chapter 4 (see Definition 4.6, for example). We outline here how to extend the main MPC stability results of Chapter 2 to apply under this stronger definition of asymptotic stability.2

In many MPC applications using nonlinear models, it is straightforward to obtain an upper bound on the MPC value function on a small set $\mathbb { X } _ { f }$ containing the origin in its interior. For example, this bound can be established when the linearization of the system is stabilizable at the origin. But it may be difficult to extend this upper bound to cover the entire stabilizable set $x _ { N }$ . But we require this upper bound to apply standard Lyapunov stability theory to the MPC controller. Therefore, we next wish to extend the upper bounding $\mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ function $\alpha _ { 2 } ( \cdot )$ from the local set $\mathbb { X } _ { f }$ to all of $x _ { N }$ , including the case when $x _ { N }$ is unbounded. Given the local upper bounding $\mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ function on $\mathbb { X } _ { f } ,$ the necessary and sufficient condition for function $V ( \cdot )$ to have an upper bounding $\mathcal { K } _ { \infty }$ function on all of $x _ { N }$ is that $V ( \cdot )$ is locally bounded on $x _ { N }$ , $\mathrm { i . e . , } V ( \cdot )$ is bounded on every compact subset of $x _ { N }$ . See Appendix B of this note for a statement and proof of this result. So we first establish that $V _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ is locally bounded on $x _ { N }$ .
