# 7.1 Introduction

In preceding chapters we show how model predictive control (MPC) can be derived for a variety of control problems with constraints. It is interesting to recall the major motivation for MPC; solution of a feedback optimal control problem yielding a stabilizing control law is often prohibitively difficult. MPC sidesteps the problem of determining a stabilizing control law κ(·) by determining, instead, at each state x encountered, a control action u = κ(x) by solving a mathematical programming problem. This procedure, if repeated at every state x, yields an implicit control law κ(·) that solves the original feedback problem. In many cases, determining an explicit control law is impractical while solving a mathematical programming problem online for a given state is possible; this fact has led to the wide-scale adoption of MPC in the chemical process industry.

Some of the control problems for which MPC has been extensively used, however, have recently been shown to be amenable to analysis. One such problem is control of linear systems with polytopic constraints, for which determination of a stabilizing control law was thought in the past to be prohibitively difficult. It has been shown that it is possible, in principle, to determine a stabilizing control law for some of these control problems. Some authors have referred to these results as explicit MPC because they yield an explicit control law in contrast to MPC that yields a control action for each encountered state, thereby implicitly defining a control law. There are two objections to this terminology. First, determination of control laws for a wide variety of control problems has been the prime concern of control theory since its birth and certainly before the advent of MPC, an important tool in this endeavor being dynamic programming (DP). These new results merely show that classical control-theoretic tools, such as DP, can be successfully applied to a wider range of problems than was previously thought possible. MPC is a useful method for implementing a control law that can, in principle, be determined using control-theoretic tools.
