If we turn instead to an MPC approach in which we generate online only the value of $u _ { \infty } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot ; x )$ for the currently measured value of x, rather than for all x, the problem remains formidable for the following reasons. First, we are optimizing over a time function, $u ( \cdot )$ , and functions are infinite dimensional. Secondly, the time interval of interest, [0, ∞), is a semi-infinite interval, which poses other numerical challenges. Finally, the cost function $V ( x , u ( \cdot ) )$ is usually not a convex function of u(·), which presents significant optimization difficulties, especially in an online setting. Even proving existence of the optimal control in this general setting is a challenge.

Our task in this chapter may therefore be viewed as restricting the system and control parameterization to replace problem $\mathbb { P } ( x )$ with a more easily computed approximate problem. We show how to pose various approximate problems for which we can establish existence of the optimal solution and asymptotic closed-loop stability of the resulting controller. For these approximate problems, we almost always replace the continuous time differential equation with a discrete time difference equation. We often replace the semi-infinite time interval with a finite time interval and append a terminal region such that we can approximate the cost to go for the semi-infinite interval once the system enters the terminal region. Although the solution of problem $\mathbb { P } ( x )$ in its full generality is out of reach with today’s computational methods, its value lies in distinguishing what is desirable in the control problem formulation and what is achievable with available computing technology.

We develop here MPC for the control of constrained nonlinear timeinvariant systems. The nonlinear system is described by the nonlinear difference equation

$$x ^ {+} = f (x, u) \tag {2.1}$$

in which $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is the current state, u is the current control, and $x ^ { + }$ the successor state; $x ^ { + } ~ = ~ f ( x , u )$ is the discrete time analog of the continuous time differential equation $\dot { x } = f ( x , u )$ . The function $f ( \cdot )$ is assumed to be continuous and to satisfy $f ( 0 , 0 ) = 0 , { \mathrm { i . e . , ~ } } 0$ is an equilibrium point. Any solution $x ( \cdot )$ of (2.1), if the initial state is $x ( 0 ) = x _ { 0 }$ and the input (control) is $u ( \cdot )$ , satisfies

$$x (k + 1) = f (x (k), u (k)) \quad k = 0, 1, \dots$$
