# 4.3.4 Smoothing and Filtering Update

We next focus on constrained linear systems

$$x ^ {+} = A x + G w \quad y = C x + v \tag {4.32}$$

We proceed to strengthen several results of the previous sections for this special case. First, the i-IOSS assumption of full information estimation and the MHE detectability assumption both reduce to the assumption that (A, C) is detectable in this case. We usually choose a constant quadratic function for the estimator stage cost for all $i \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$

$$\ell_ {i} (w, v) = (1 / 2) \left(\left| w \right| _ {Q ^ {- 1}} ^ {2} + \left| v \right| _ {R ^ {- 1}} ^ {2}\right) \quad Q, R > 0 \tag {4.33}$$

In the unconstrained linear problem, we can of course find the full information arrival cost exactly; it is

$$Z _ {k} (z) = V _ {k} ^ {0} + (1 / 2) | z - \hat {x} (k) | _ {(P ^ {-} (k)) ^ {- 1}} \quad k \geq 0$$

in which $P ^ { - } \left( k \right)$ satisfies the recursion (4.12) and ${ \hat { x } } ( k )$ is the full information estimate at time k. We use this quadratic function for the MHE prior weighting.

Assumption 4.24 (Prior weighting for linear system).

$$\Gamma_ {k} (z) = \hat {V} _ {k} ^ {0} + (1 / 2) | z - \hat {x} (k) | _ {(P ^ {-} (k)) ^ {- 1}} \quad k > N \tag {4.34}$$

in which $\hat { V } _ { k } ^ { 0 }$ is the optimal MHE cost at time k.

Because the unconstrained arrival cost is available, we usually choose it to be the prior weighting in MHE, $\Gamma _ { k } ( \cdot ) = Z _ { k } ( \cdot ) , k \geq 0$ . This choice implies robust GAS of the MHE estimator also for the constrained case as we next demonstrate. To ensure the form of the estimation problem to be solved online is a quadratic program, we specialize the constraint sets to be polyhedral regions.

Assumption 4.25 (Polyhedral constraint sets). For all $k \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ , the sets $\mathbb { W } _ { k } , \mathbb { X } _ { k }$ , and $\mathbb { V } _ { k }$ in Assumption 4.21 are nonempty, closed polyhedral regions containing the origin.

Corollary 4.26 (Robust GAS of constrained MHE). Consider a detectable linear system and measurement sequence generated by (4.32) with convergent, constrained disturbances satisfying Assumptions 4.3 and 4.25. The constrained MHE estimator (4.31) using prior weighting function satisfying (4.34) and stage cost satisfying (4.33) is robustly GAS.

This corollary follows as a special case of Theorem 4.23.
