Distributed optimization. The optimization community has extensively studied the issue of solving large-scale optimization problems using distributed optimization methods. The primary motivation in this field is to exploit parallel computing hardware and distributed data communication networks to solve large optimization problems faster. Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis provide an excellent and comprehensive overview of this field focusing on numerical algorithms for implementing the distributed approaches. The important questions that are addressed in designing a distributed optimization are: task allocation, communication, and synchronization (Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis, 1997, Chapter 1).

These basic concepts arise in distributed problems of all types, and therefore also in the distributed MPC problem, which provides good synergy between these fields. But one should also be aware of the structural distinctions between distributed optimization and distributed MPC. The primary obstacle to implementing centralized MPC for large-scale plants is not computational but organizational. The agents considered in distributed MPC are usually existing MPC systems already built for units or subsystems within an existing large-scale process. The plant management often is seeking to improve the plant performance by better coordinating the behavior of the different agents already in operation. Ignoring these structural constraints and treating the distributed MPC problem purely as a form of distributed optimization, ignores aspects of the design that are critical for successful industrial application (Rawlings and Stewart, 2008).
