We show next that final-state observability (FSO) is the natural system requirement for MHE with zero prior weighting to provide stability and convergence.

Definition 4.12 (Final-state observability). The system $x ^ { + } = f ( x , w )$ , $y = h ( x )$ is final-state observable (FSO) if there exist finite $N _ { 0 } \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 1 }$ $\overline { { \gamma } } _ { 1 } ( \cdot ) , \overline { { \gamma } } _ { 2 } ( \cdot ) \in \mathcal { K }$ such that for every two initial states $z _ { 1 }$ and $z _ { 2 }$ , and any two disturbance sequences $\mathbf { w } _ { 1 } , \mathbf { w } _ { 2 }$ , and all $k \geq N _ { 0 }$

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left| x \left(k; z _ {1}, \mathbf {w} _ {1}\right) - x \left(k; z _ {2}, \mathbf {w} _ {2}\right) \right| \leq \overline {{{\gamma}}} _ {1} \left(\left\| \mathbf {w} _ {1} - \mathbf {w} _ {2} \right\| _ {0: k - 1}\right) + \\ \overline {{\gamma}} _ {2} \left(\left| \left| \mathbf {y} _ {z _ {1}, \mathbf {w} _ {1}} - \mathbf {y} _ {z _ {2}, \mathbf {w} _ {2}} \right| \right| _ {0: k}\right) \\ \end{array}
$$

Notice that FSO is not the same as observability. It is weaker than observability and stronger than i-IOSS (detectability) as discussed in Exercise 4.11. Consider two equal disturbance sequences, $\mathbf { w } _ { 1 } = \mathbf { w } _ { 2 }$ , and two equal measurement sequences $\mathbf { y } _ { 1 } = \mathbf { y } _ { 2 }$ . FSO implies that for every pair $z _ { 1 }$ and $z _ { 2 } , x ( N _ { 0 } ; z _ { 1 } , { \bf w } _ { 1 } ) = x ( N _ { 0 } ; z _ { 2 } , { \bf w } _ { 1 } )$ ; we know the final states at time $k = N _ { 0 }$ are equal. FSO does not imply that the initial states are equal as required by observability. We can of course add the nonnegative term $\beta ( \left| z _ { 1 } - z _ { 2 } \right| , k )$ to the right-hand side of the FSO inequality and obtain the i-IOSS inequality, so FSO implies i-IOSS. Exercise 4.11 treats observability, FSO, and detectability of the linear time-invariant system, which can be summarized compactly in terms of the eigenvalues of the partitioned state transition matrix corresponding to the unobservable modes.
