No optimization is required to get the cost reduction $\ell ( x , u ( 0 ) )$ given by (2.41); in practice the control sequence ${ \bf u } ^ { + }$ can be improved by several iterations of an optimization algorithm. Inequality (2.42) is reminiscent of the inequality $V _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( x ^ { + } ) \le V _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( x ) - \ell ( x , \kappa _ { N } ( x ) )$ ) that provides the basis for establishing asymptotic stability of the origin for the controlled systems previously analyzed and suggests that the simple algorithm described previously, which places very low demands on the online optimization algorithm, may also ensure asymptotic stability of the origin. This is almost true. The obstacle to applying standard Lyapunov theory is that there is no obvious Lyapunov function because, at each state $x ^ { + }$ , there exist many control sequences ${ \bf u } ^ { + }$ satisfying $V _ { N } ( x ^ { + } , { \mathbf { u } ^ { + } } ) \le V _ { N } ( x , { \mathbf { u } } ) - \alpha _ { 1 } ( | x | )$ . The function $( x , \mathbf { u } ) \mapsto V _ { N } ( x , \mathbf { u } )$ is not a function of x only and may have many different values for each $x ;$ therefore it cannot play the role of the function $V _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( x )$ used previously. Moreover, the controller can generate, for a given initial state, many different trajectories, all of which have to be considered.

Global attractivity of the origin in $x _ { N }$ , however, may be established. For all $x ( 0 ) \in \mathcal { X } _ { N }$ , let $\{ ( x ( 0 ) , { \mathbf { u } } ( 0 ) ) , ( x ( 1 ) , { \mathbf { u } } ( 1 ) ) , . . . \}$ denote any infinite sequence generated by the controlled system and satisfying, therefore, $V _ { N } ( x ( i + 1 ) , { \bf u } ( i + 1 ) ) \le { V } _ { N } ( x ( i ) , { \bf u } ( i ) ) - \alpha _ { 1 } ( \vert x ( i ) \vert )$ for all i. Then $\{ V _ { N } ( x ( i ) , \mathbf { u } ( i ) ) \mid i \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 } \}$ is a nonincreasing sequence bounded below by zero. Hence $V _ { N } ( x ( i ) , \mathbf { u } ( i ) ) ~ \to ~ V _ { N } ^ { * } \geq 0$ so that $V _ { N } ( x ( i + 1 ) , { \bf u } ( i +$ $( 1 ) ) \ - \ V _ { N } ( x ( i ) , { \bf u } ( i ) ) \ \to \ 0$ as i → ∞. We deduce, from (2.42), that $\alpha _ { 1 } ( | x ( i ) | ) \to 0$ so that $x ( i )  0$ as $i  \infty$ .

Establishing stability of the origin is more difficult for reasons given previously and requires a minor modification of the controller when the state x is close to the origin. The modification we make to the controller is to require that u satisfies the following requirement when x lies in $\mathbb { X } _ { f }$

$$V _ {N} (x, \mathbf {u}) \leq V _ {f} (x) \quad f (x, u (0)) \in \mathbb {X} _ {f} \tag {2.43}$$
