# 5.4.1 Introduction

In the previous section we considered the case when the state estimator was time-invariant in the sense that the state estimation error $\tilde { x } ( i )$ lies in a constant set $\mathbb { \Sigma }$ for all i. The state estimator, in this case, is analogous to the steady-state Kalman filter for which the state estimation error has constant variance. In this section we consider the case where the initial state estimation error $\widetilde { \boldsymbol { x } } ( 0 )$ lies in a set Σ(0), which is larger than the time-invariant set $\mathbb { \Sigma }$ considered in Section 5.3. We show subsequently that in the time-varying case, the estimation error lies in a set $\mathbb { \Sigma } ( i )$ at time i where $\mathbb { \Sigma } ( i )$ converges to Σ as i tends to infinity. Because the set $\mathbb { \Sigma } ( i )$ in which the state estimation error lies is now time varying, the nominal optimal control problem has time-varying constraints and thus requires a different approach. Although this section shows that extension of the tube-based controller to the time-varying case is theoretically relatively simple, implementation is considerably more complex; readers whose main interest is in controllers that may be implemented simply should omit this section. To deal with the time-varying case, we extend slightly standard definitions of positive invariance and robust positive invariance.

Definition 5.6 (Positive invariance; time-varying case). A sequence {Σ(i)} of sets is positive invariant for the time-varying system $x ^ { + } = f ( x , i )$ , $i ^ { + } = i + 1$ if, for all $i \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ , all $x \in \mathbb { Z } ( i ) , f ( x , i ) \in \mathbb { Z } ( i + 1 )$ .

Definition 5.7 (Robust positive invariance; time-varying case). A sequence $\{ \mathbb { Z } ( i ) \}$ of sets is robust positive invariant for the time-varying system $x ^ { + } = f ( x , w , i ) , i ^ { + } = i + 1$ where the disturbance w lies in the set W if, for all $i \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ , all $x \in \mathbb { \Sigma } ( i )$ , $f ( x , w , i ) \in \Sigma ( i + 1 )$ for all $w \in \mathbb { W }$ .

We assume, as before, that $( A , B , C )$ is stabilizable and detectable.
