Critique. A feature of the robust controller that may appear strange is the fact that the nominal state trajectory $\{ z ( i ) \}$ is completely independent of the state trajectory $\{ x ( i ) \}$ of the uncertain system. Although the control $u = \kappa _ { N } ( x , z )$ applied to the uncertain system depends on the state of both systems, the control $\upsilon = \bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( z )$ applied to the nominal system depends only on the state z of the nominal system. This feature arises because we are considering a very specific problem: determination of a control that steers an uncertain linear system robustly from a known initial state x to the neighborhood $\{ x _ { f } \} \oplus S _ { K } ( \infty )$ of a desired final state $x _ { f } ; x _ { f } = 0$ in the previous analysis. More generally, the target state $x _ { f }$ and a slowly varying external disturbance d will vary with time, and the control $u = \kappa _ { N } ( x , z , x _ { f } , d )$ will depend on these variables.

A form of feedback from x to v and, hence, to z is easily added. Step 1 in the controller algorithm presented previously may be changed as follows.

Step 1 (Compute control): At time i and current state $( x , z )$ , solve the nominal optimal control problems $\bar { \mathbb { P } } _ { N } ( x )$ and $\bar { \mathbb { P } } _ { N } ( z )$ to obtain $\bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( z )$ and $\bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( \boldsymbol { x } )$ . If $\bar { V } _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( x ) \le \bar { V } _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( z )$ and $x \in \mathbb { Z }$ , set $z = x$ and $u = \nu = \bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( x )$ . Otherwise set $\upsilon = \bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( z )$ and $u = \nu + K ( x - z )$ .

Since the modified controller produces, at state $( x , z )$ , either a nominal cost $\bar { V } _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( z )$ or $\bar { V } _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( x ) \le \bar { V } _ { N } ^ { 0 } ( z )$ where $x \in \mathbb { Z }$ becomes the updated value of z, the analysis and conclusions above remain valid. The modification provides improved performance. From an alternative viewpoint, the modified controller may be regarded as an improved version of nominal MPC in which the nominal control $\bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( \boldsymbol { x } )$ is replaced by a safe control $\bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( z )$ if $\bar { \kappa } _ { N } ( x )$ does not lead to a cost reduction because of the disturbance w.
