where $\{ \upsilon ( k ) \}$ is the optimal open-loop control sequence and $\{ z ( k ) \}$ the corresponding optimal open-loop state sequence. This policy provides feedback control for states $x ( k )$ close to the nominal states $z ( k )$ . The second variation algorithms are too complex for routine use in MPC because they require computation of the second derivatives with respect to $( x , u )$ of $f ( \cdot )$ and $\ell ( \cdot )$ . When the system is linear, the cost quadratic, and the disturbance additive, however, the optimal control law for the unconstrained infinite horizon case is $u = K x$ . This result may be expressed as a time-varying control law $u ( k ) = \nu ( k ) + K ( x ( k ) - z ( k ) )$ where the state and control sequences $\{ z ( k ) \}$ and $\{ \upsilon ( k ) \}$ satisfy the nominal difference equations $z ^ { + } = A z + B \nu , \nu = K z , \mathrm { i . e . }$ ., the sequences $\{ z ( k ) \}$ and $\{ \upsilon ( k ) \}$ are optimal open-loop solutions for zero disturbance and some initial state. The time-varying control law $u ( k ) \ =$ $\nu ( k ) + K ( x ( k ) - z ( k ) )$ is clearly optimal in the unconstrained case; it remains optimal for the constrained case in the neighborhood of the nominal trajectory $\{ z ( k ) \} \ \mathrm { i f } \ \{ \{ z ( k ) \} $ and $\{ \nu ( k ) \}$ } lie in the interior of their respective constraint sets.

These comments suggest that a time-varying policy of the form $u ( x , k ) = \nu ( k ) + K ( x - z ( k ) )$ might be adequate, at least when $f ( \cdot )$ is linear. The nominal control and state sequences, $\{ \upsilon ( k ) \}$ and $\{ z ( k ) \}$ , respectively, can be determined by solving a standard open-loop optimal control problem of the form usually employed in MPC, and the feedback matrix K can be determined offline. We show that this form of robust MPC has the same order of online complexity as that conventionally used for deterministic systems. It requires a modified form of the online optimal control problem in which the constraints are simply tightened to allow for disturbances, thereby constraining the trajectories of the uncertain system to lie in a tube centered on the nominal trajectories. Offline computations are required to determine the modified constraints and the feedback matrix K. We also present, in the last section of this chapter, a modification of this tube-based procedure for nonlinear systems for which a nonlinear local feedback policy is required.

A word of caution is necessary. Just as nominal model predictive controllers presented in Chapter 2 may fail in the presence of uncertainty, the controllers presented in this chapter may fail if the actual uncertainty does not satisfy our assumptions, such as when a disturbance that we assume to be bounded exceeds the assumed bounds; the controlled systems are robust only to the specified uncertainties. As always, online fault diagnosis and safe recovery procedures are required to protect the system from unanticipated events.
