Chapters 2–4 are foundational and should probably be covered in any graduate level MPC course. Chapter 2 covers regulation to the origin for nonlinear and constrained systems. This material presents in a unified fashion many of the major research advances in MPC that took place during the last 20 years. It also includes more recent topics such as regulation to an unreachable setpoint that are only now appearing in the research literature. Chapter 3 addresses MPC design for robustness, with a focus on MPC using tubes or bundles of trajectories in place of the single nominal trajectory. This chapter again unifies a large body of research literature concerned with robust MPC. Chapter 4 covers state estimation with an emphasis on moving horizon estimation, but also covers extended and unscented Kalman filtering, and particle filtering.

Chapters 5–7 present more specialized topics. Chapter 5 addresses the special requirements of MPC based on output measurement instead of state measurement. Chapter 6 discusses how to design distributed MPC controllers for large-scale systems that are decomposed into many smaller, interacting subsystems. Chapter 7 covers the explicit optimal control of constrained linear systems. The choice of coverage of these three chapters may vary depending on the instructor’s or student’s own research interests.

Three appendices are included, again, so that the reader is not sent off to search a large research literature for the fundamental arguments used in the text. Appendix A covers the required mathematical background. Appendix B summarizes the results used for stability analysis including the various types of stability and Lyapunov function theory. Since MPC is an optimization-based controller, Appendix C covers the relevant results from optimization theory. In order to reduce the size and expense of the text, the three appendices are available on the web: www.che.wisc.edu/\~jbraw/mpc. Note, however, that all material in the appendices is included in the book’s printed table of contents, and subject and author indices. The website also includes sample exams, and homework assignments for a one-semester graduate course in MPC. All of the examples and exercises in the text were solved with Octave. Octave is freely available from www.octave.org.

JBR

Madison, Wisconsin, USA

London, England
