$$p (x (k) \mid \mathbf {y} (k - 1)) = \frac {1}{(2 \pi) ^ {n / 2} (\det P ^ {-} (k)) ^ {1 / 2}} \exp (- V _ {k} ^ {-} (x (k))) \tag {1.32}p (x (k) | \mathbf {y} (k)) = \frac {1}{(2 \pi) ^ {n / 2} (\det P (k)) ^ {1 / 2}} \exp (- V _ {k} (x (k)))$$

The discovery (and rediscovery) of the close connection between recursive least squares and optimal statistical estimation has not always been greeted happily by researchers:

The recursive least squares approach was actually inspired by probabilistic results that automatically produce an equation of evolution for the estimate (the conditional mean). In fact, much of the recent least squares work did nothing more than rederive the probabilistic results (perhaps in an attempt to understand them). As a result, much of the least squares work contributes very little to estimation theory.

— Jazwinski (1970, pp.152–153)

In contrast with this view, we find both approaches valuable in the subsequent development. The probabilistic approach, which views the state estimator as maximizing conditional density of the state given measurement, offers the most insight. It provides a rigorous basis for comparing different estimators based on the variance of their estimate error. It also specifies what information is required to define an optimal estimator, with variances Q and R of primary importance. In the probabilistic framework, these parameters should be found from modeling and data. The main deficiency in the least squares viewpoint is that the objective function, although reasonable, is ad hoc and not justified. The choice of weighting matrices Q and R is arbitrary. Practitioners generally choose these parameters based on a tradeoff between the competing goals of speed of estimator response and insensitivity to measurement noise. But a careful statement of this tradeoff often just leads back to the probabilistic viewpoint in which the process disturbance and measurement disturbance are modeled as normal distributions. If we restrict attention to unconstrained linear systems, the probabilistic viewpoint is clearly superior.
