# 6.1 Introduction and Preliminary Results

In many large-scale control applications, it becomes convenient to break the large plantwide problem into a set of smaller and simpler subproblems in which the local inputs are used to regulate the local outputs. The overall plantwide control is then accomplished by the composite behavior of the interacting, local controllers. There are many ways to design the local controllers, some of which produce guaranteed properties of the overall plantwide system. We consider four control approaches in this chapter: decentralized, noncooperative, cooperative, and centralized control. The first three methods require the local controllers to optimize over only their local inputs. Their computational requirements are identical. The communication overhead is different, however. Decentralized control requires no communication between subsystems. Noncooperative and cooperative control require the input sequences and the current states or state estimates for all the other local subsystems. Centralized control solves the large, complex plantwide optimization over all the inputs. Communication is not a relevant property for centralized control because all information is available in the single plantwide controller. We use centralized control in this chapter to provide a benchmark of comparison for the distributed controllers.

We have established the basic properties of centralized MPC, both with and without state estimation, in Chapters 2, 3, and 5. In this chapter, we analyze some basic properties of the three distributed approaches: decentralized, noncooperative, and cooperative MPC. We show that the conditions required for closed-loop stability of decentralized control and noncooperative control are often violated for models of chemical plants under reasonable decompositions into subsystems. For ensuring closed-loop stability of a wide class of plantwide models and decomposition choices, cooperative control emerges as the most attractive option for distributed MPC. We then establish the closed-loop properties of cooperative MPC for unconstrained and constrained linear systems with and without state estimation. We also discuss current challenges facing this method, such as input constraints that are coupled between subsystems.

In our development of distributed MPC, we require some basic results on two topics: how to organize and solve the linear algebra of linear MPC, and how to ensure stability when using suboptimal MPC. We cover these two topics in the next sections, and then turn to the distributed MPC approaches.
