# 3.1.3 Robust MPC

An important feature of conventional, or deterministic, MPC discussed in Chapter 2 is that the solution of the open-loop optimal control problem solved online is identical to that obtained by DP for the given initial state. When uncertainty is present and the state is known or observations of the state are available, feedback control is superior to openloop control. The optimal control problem solved online must, therefore, permit feedback in order for its solution to coincide with the DP solution. The online optimal control problem with horizon N is $\mathbb { P } _ { N } ^ { * } ( x )$ in which the decision variable $\pmb { \mu }$ is a sequence of control laws rather than $\mathbb { P } _ { N } ( x )$ in which the decision variable u is a sequence of control actions. MPC in which the decision variable is a policy has been termed feedback MPC to distinguish it from conventional MPC. Both forms of MPC naturally provide feedback control since the control that is implemented depends on the current state x in both cases. But the control that is applied depends on whether the optimal control problem solved is open loop, in which case the decision variable is a control sequence, or feedback, in which case the decision variable is a feedback policy.

In feedback MPC the solution to the optimal control problem $\mathbb { P } _ { N } ^ { * } ( x )$ is the policy $\pmb { \mu } ^ { 0 } ( \pmb { x } ) = \{ \mu _ { 0 } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot ; \pmb { x } ) , \mu _ { 1 } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot ; \pmb { x } ) , \dots , \mu _ { N - 1 } ^ { 0 } ( \cdot ; \pmb { x } ) \}$ . The constituent control laws are restrictions of those determined by DP and therefore depend on the initial state x as implied by the notation. Thus only the value $u ^ { 0 } ( x ) = \mu _ { 0 } ( x ; x )$ of the control law $\mu _ { 0 } ( \cdot ; x )$ at the initial state x need be determined while successive laws need only be determined over a limited range. In the example illustrated in Figure 3.1, $\mu _ { 0 } ( \cdot ; x )$ need only be determined at the point $x = 1 , \mu _ { 1 } ( { \cdot } ; x )$ need only be determined over the interval $[ - 8 / 1 3 , 1 8 / 1 3 ]$ , and $\mu _ { 2 } ( \cdot ; x )$ over the interval $[ - 8 1 / 6 5 , 1 0 1 / 6 5 ]$ , whereas in the DP solution these control laws are defined over the infinite interval $( - \infty , \infty )$ .
