# 3.2.3 When Is Nominal MPC Robust?

The discussion in Section 2.1 shows that nominal MPC is not necessarily robust. It is therefore natural to ask under what conditions nominal

MPC is robust. To answer this, we have to define robustness precisely. In Appendix B, we define robust stability, and robust asymptotic stability, of a set. We employ this concept later in this chapter in the design of robust model predictive controllers that for a given initial state in the region of attraction, steer every realization of the state trajectory to this set. Here, however, we address a slightly different question: when is nominal MPC that steers every trajectory in the region of attraction to the origin robust? Obviously, the disturbance will preclude the controller from steering the state of the perturbed system to the origin; the best that can be hoped for is that the controller will steer the state to some small neighborhood of the origin. Let the nominal (controlled) system be described by $x ^ { + } = f ( x )$ where $f ( \cdot )$ is not necessarily continuous, and let the perturbed system be described by $x ^ { + } = f ( x + e ) + w$ . Also let $S _ { \delta } ( x )$ denote the set of solutions for the perturbed system with initial state x and perturbation sequences $\mathbf { e } : = \{ e ( 0 ) , e ( 1 ) , e ( 2 ) , \ldots \}$ and $\mathbf { w } : = \{ w ( 0 ) , w ( 1 ) , w ( 2 ) , \ldots \}$ satisfying max $\left\{ \left\| \mathbf { e } \right\| , \left\| \mathbf { w } \right\| \right\} \leq \delta$ where, for any sequence ν, kνk denotes the sup norm, $\operatorname* { s u p } _ { k \geq 0 } \left| \nu ( k ) \right|$ . The definition of robustness that we employ is (Teel, 2004):

Definition 3.1 (Robust global asymptotic stability (GAS)). Let A be compact, and let $d ( x , { \mathcal { A } } ) : = \operatorname* { m i n } _ { a } \{ | a - x | | a \in { \mathcal { A } } \}$ , and $| x | _ { \mathcal { A } } : = d ( x , \mathcal { A } )$ . The set A is robust GAS for $x ^ { + } ~ = ~ f ( x )$ if there exists a class $\mathcal { K L }$ - function $\beta ( \cdot )$ such that for each $\varepsilon > 0$ and each compact set C, there exists a $\delta > 0$ such that for each $x \in C$ and each $\phi \in S _ { \delta } ( x )$ , there holds $| \phi ( k ; x ) | _ { \mathcal { A } } \leq \beta ( | x | _ { \mathcal { A } } , k ) + \varepsilon$ for all $k \in  { \mathbb { I } } _ { \geq 0 }$ .
