We note the following differences between standard regulation and the estimation problem (4.10). First we see that (4.10) is slightly nonstandard because it contains an extra decision variable, the initial state, and an extra term in the cost function, (4.9). Indeed, without this extra term, the regulator could choose $\tilde { { \boldsymbol { x } } } ( 0 ) = 0$ to zero the estimate error immediately, choose $\mathbf { w } = 0$ e, and achieve zero cost in $V _ { T } ^ { 0 } ( a )$ for all $^ { a . }$ The nonstandard regulator allows $\widetilde { \boldsymbol { x } } ( 0 )$ to be manipulated as a decision variable, but penalizes its distance from $^ a$ . Next we look at the stability question. The stability analysis is to show there exists KL-function $\beta$ such that $\left| \tilde { x } ^ { 0 } ( T ; a ) \right| \ \stackrel { \cdot } { \ } \int ( \left| a \right| , T )$ for all $T \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ . Here convergence is a question about the terminal state in a sequence of $d i f f e r e n t$ optimal control problems with increasing horizon length $T .$ . That is also not the standard regulator convergence question, which asks how the state trajectory evolves using the optimal control law. In standard regulation, we inject the optimal first input and ask whether we are successfully moving the system to the origin as time increases. In estimation, we do not inject anything into the system; we are provided more information as time increases and ask whether our explanation of the data is improving (terminal estimate error is decreasing) as time increases.

Because stability is framed around the behavior of the terminal state, we would not choose backward dynamic programming (DP) to solve (4.10), as in standard regulation. We do not seek the optimal first control move as a function of a known initial state. Rather we seek the optimal terminal state $\tilde { x } ^ { 0 } ( T ; a )$ as a function of the parameter a appearing in the cost function. This problem is better handled by $f o r \mathrm { . }$ ward DP as discussed in Sections 1.3.2 and 1.4.3 of Chapter 1 when solving the full information state estimation problem. Exercise 4.12 discusses how to solve (4.10); we obtain the following recursion for the optimal terminal state

$$\tilde {x} ^ {0} (k + 1; a) = (A - \tilde {L} (k) C) \tilde {x} ^ {0} (k; a) \tag {4.11}$$
