While feedback MPC is superior in the presence of uncertainty, the associated optimal control problem is vastly more complex than the optimal control problem employed in deterministic MPC. The decision variable $\pmb { \mu } ,$ being a sequence of control laws, is infinite dimensional; each law or function requires, in general, an infinite dimensional grid to specify it. The complexity is comparable to solving the DP equation, so that MPC, which in the deterministic case replaces DP with a solvable open-loop optimization problem, is not easily solved when uncertainty is present. Hence much research effort has been devoted to forms of feedback MPC that sacrifice optimality for simplicity. As in the early days of adaptive control, many different proposals have been made. These proposals for robust MPC are all simpler to implement than the optimal solution provided by DP.

At the current stage of research it is perhaps premature to select a particular approach; we have, nevertheless, selected one approach, tube-based MPC that we describe here and in Chapter 5. There is a good reason for our choice. It is well known that standard mathematical optimization algorithms may be used to obtain an optimal openloop control sequence for an optimal control problem. What is less well known is that there exist algorithms, the second variation algorithms, which provide not only an optimal control sequence but also a local time-varying feedback law of the form $u ( k ) = \nu \left( k \right) + K ( k ) \left( x ( k ) - z ( k ) \right)$
