The next advance showed that incorporation of a suitable terminal cost and terminal constraint in the finite horizon optimal control problem ensured closed-loop stability; the terminal constraint set is required to be control invariant, and the terminal cost function is required to be a local CLF. Perhaps the earliest proposal in this direction is the brief paper by Sznaier and Damborg (1987) for linear systems with polytopic constraints; in this prescient paper the terminal cost is chosen to be the value function for the unconstrained infinite horizon optimal control problem, and the terminal constraint set is the maximal constraint admissible set (Gilbert and Tan, 1991) for the optimal controlled system.8 A suitable terminal cost and terminal constraint set for constrained nonlinear continuous time systems was proposed in Michalska and Mayne (1993) but in the context of dual mode MPC. In a paper that has had considerable impact, Chen and Allg¨ower (1998) showed that similar “ingredients” may be employed to stabilize constrained nonlinear continuous time systems when conventional MPC is employed. Related results were obtained by Parisini and Zoppoli (1995), and De Nicolao, Magni, and Scattolini (1996).

Stability proofs for the form of MPC proposed, but not analyzed, in Sznaier and Damborg (1987) were finally provided by Chmielewski and Manousiouthakis (1996) and Scokaert and Rawlings (1998). These papers also showed that optimal control for the infinite horizon constrained optimal control problem with a specified initial state is achieved if the horizon is chosen sufficiently long. A terminal constraint is not required if a global, rather than a local, CLF is available for use as a terminal cost function. Thus, for the case when the system being controlled is linear and stable, and subject to a convex control constraint, Rawlings and Muske (1993) showed, in a paper that raised considerable interest, that closed-loop stability may be obtained if the terminal constraint is omitted and the infinite horizon cost using zero control is employed as the terminal cost. The resultant terminal cost is a global CLF.
