Control theory. Researchers have long studied the issue of how to distribute control tasks in a complex large-scale plant (Mesarovi´c, Macko, and Takahara, 1970; Sandell Jr., Varaiya, Athans, and Safonov, 1978). The centralized controller and decentralized controller define two limiting design extremes. Centralized control accounts for all possible interactions, large and small, whereas decentralized control ignores them completely. In decentralized control the local agents have no knowledge of each others’ actions. It is well known that the nominal closed-loop system behavior under decentralized control can be arbitrarily poor (unstable) if the system interactions are not small. The following reviews provide general discussion of this and other performance issues involving decentralized control (ˇSiljak, 1991; Lunze, 1992; Larsson and Skogestad, 2000; Cui and Jacobsen, 2002).

The next level up in design complexity from decentralized control is noncooperative control. In this framework, the agents have interaction models and communicate at each iteration (Jia and Krogh, 2002; Motee and Sayyar-Rodsari, 2003; Dunbar and Murray, 2006). The advantage of noncooperative control over decentralized control is that the agents have accurate knowledge of the effects of all other agents on their local objectives. The basic issue to analyze and understand in this setup is the competition between the agents. Characterizing the noncooperative equilibrium is the subject of noncooperative game theory, and the impact of using that solution for feedback control is the subject of control theory. For example, Dunbar (2007) shows closed-loop stability for an extension of noncooperative MPC described in (Dunbar and Murray, 2006) that handles systems with interacting subsystem dynamics. The key assumptions are the existence of a stabilizing decentralized feedback law valid near the origin, and an inequality condition limiting the coupling between the agents.
