Output control, in general, requires control of the hyperstate p which may be computed and is, therefore, known, but which satisfies a complex evolution equation $p ^ { + } = \phi ( p , u , \psi )$ where $\psi$ is a random disturbance. Controlling $p$ is a problem of the same type as that considered in Chapter 3, but considerably more complex since the function $p ( \cdot )$ is infinite dimensional. Because of the complexity of the evolution equation for $p _ { \mathrm { : } }$ , the separation principle is often invoked; assuming that the state x is known, a stabilizing controller $u = \kappa ( x )$ and an observer or filter yielding an estimate $\hat { x }$ of the state are separately designed; the control $u = \kappa ( \hat { x } )$ is then applied to the plant. Indeed, this form of control is actually optimal for the linear quadratic Gaussian (LQG) optimal control problem considered briefly above but is not necessarily stabilizing when the system is nonlinear and constrained. We propose a variant of this procedure, modified to cope with state and control constraints. The state estimate $\hat { x }$ satisfies an uncertain difference equation with an additive disturbance of the same type as that considered in Chapter 3. Hence we employ tube MPC, similar to that employed in Chapter 3, but modified to ensure that state estimation error, not considered in Chapter 3, does not result in transgression of the control and state constraints. An advantage of the method presented here is that its online complexity is comparable to that of conventional MPC.

As in Chapter 3, a caveat is necessary. Because of the inherent complexity of output MPC, different compromises between simplicity and efficiency are possible; for this reason, output MPC remains an active research area and alternative methods, available or yet to be developed, may be preferred.
