# 3.4.3 Tube-Based MPC of Linear Systems with Additive Disturbances

Introduction. Now that we have shown how to contain all the trajectories of an uncertain system emanating from the current state within a tube $X ( z , \mathbf { v } )$ where z is the initial state of the nominal system and v is an open-loop control sequence, we show how this tool may be used to obtain robust control. We restrict attention in this subsection to constrained linear systems with a bounded additive disturbance. In later sections we consider alternative forms of uncertainty such as parametric uncertainty as well as constrained robust control of constrained nonlinear systems. Our goal is to develop forms of robust MPC that are only marginally more complex than nominal MPC despite the uncertainty.

In this subsection, we discuss first how to formulate an optimal control problem, the solution of which yields a control policy that minimizes a cost, and ensures that the state and control satisfy the given state and control constraints for all admissible bounded disturbances. The basic idea is simple. Choose a trajectory $\{ z ( i ) \}$ for the nominal trajectory depending on the initial state z and the control sequence v, such that each trajectory $\{ x ( i ) \}$ of the system being controlled satisfies the state constraint $x ( i ) \in \mathbb { X }$ for all $i \in \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N \}$ , and the actual control sequence $\{ u ( i ) \}$ satisfies the control constraint for all $i \in \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N - 1 \}$ . Recalling that the state satisfies $x ( i ) \in \{ z ( i ) \}$ ⊕ S for all $i \in \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N \}$ and all admissible disturbance sequences, the state constraint is satisfied if $\{ z ( i ) \} \oplus S \in \mathbb { X }$ or, equivalently, if $z ( i ) \in$ $\mathbb { X } \ominus S$ for all $i \in \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N \}$ . Similarly the control constraint is satisfied if $u ( i ) ~ = ~ \nu ( i ) + K e ( i ) \in \mathbb { U }$ for all $e ( i ) \in S$ or, equivalently, if $\nu ( i ) \in \mathbb { U } \ominus K S$ for all $i \in \{ 0 , 1 , \ldots , N - 1 \}$ . These assertions only make sense if the disturbance set W is sufficiently small to ensure that Assumption 3.14 is satisfied where:

Assumption 3.14 (Restricted disturbances for constraint satisfaction). $S \subset \mathbb { X }$ and $K S \subset \mathbb { U }$ .
