# 4.9 Notes

State estimation is a fundamental topic appearing in many branches of science and engineering, and has a large literature. A nice and brief annotated bibliography describing the early contributions to optimal state estimation of the linear Gaussian system is provided by Astr ˚ ¨om (1970, pp. 252-255). Kailath (1974) provides a comprehensive and historical review of linear filtering theory including the historical development of Wiener-Kolmogorov theory for filtering and prediction that preceded Kalman filtering (Wiener, 1949; Kolmogorov, 1941).

Jazwinski (1970) provides an early and comprehensive treatment of the optimal stochastic state estimation problem for linear and nonlinear systems. As mentioned in Section 4.2.1, Jazwinski (1970) proves stability of the optimal time-varying state estimator for the linear Gaussian case using $V ( k , x ) = x ^ { \prime } P ( k ) ^ { - 1 } x$ as the Lyapunov function for the linear time-varying system governing estimate error. Note that this dynamic system is time-varying even if the model is time invariant because the optimal estimator gains are time varying. This choice of Lyapunov function has been used to establish estimator stability in many subsequent textbooks (Stengel, 1994, pp.474-475). Kailath (1974, p.152) remarks that the known proofs that the optimal filter is stable “are somewhat difficult, and it is significant that only a small fraction of the vast literature on the Kalman filter deals with this problem.” Perhaps the stability analysis developed in Section 4.2 can alleviate the difficulties associated with developing Lyapunov function arguments in optimal estimation.

For establishing stability of the steady-state optimal linear estimator, simpler arguments suffice because the estimate error equation is time invariant. Establishing duality with the optimal regulator is a favorite technique for establishing estimator stability in this case. See, for example, Kwakernaak and Sivan (1972, Theorem 4.11) for a general steady-state stability theorem for the linear Gaussian case. This result is proved by establishing properties of the steady-state solution to the Riccati equation for regulation and, by duality, estimation.
