The banded structure allows a more efficient solution procedure. The floating operation (FLOP) count for the factorization of a banded matrix is $O ( L M ^ { 2 } )$ in which L is the dimension of the matrix and M is the bandwidth. This compares to the regular FLOP count of $O ( L ^ { 3 } )$ for the factorization of a regular dense matrix. The bandwidth of the matrix in (6.4) is $3 n + m$ and the dimension of the matrix is $N ( 2 n + m )$ . Therefore the FLOP count for solving this equation is $O ( N ( 2 n + m ) ( 3 n + m ) ^ { 2 } )$ . Notice that this approach reduces the $N ^ { 3 }$ dependence of the previous MPC solution method. That is the computational advantage provided by these adjoint methods for treating the model constraints. Table 6.1 summarizes the computational cost of the three approaches. As shown in the table, DP is highly efficient. When we add input and state inequality constraints to the control problem and the state dimension is large, however, we cannot conveniently apply DP. The dense least squares computational cost is high if we wish to compute a large number of moves in the horizon. Note the cost of dense least squares scales with the third power of horizon length N. As we have discussed in Chapter 2, considerations of control theory favor large N. Another factor increasing the computational cost is the trend in industrial MPC implementations to larger multivariable control problems with more states and inputs, i.e., larger m and n. Therefore, the adjoint approach using banded least squares method becomes important for industrial applications in which the problems are large and a solid theoretical foundation for the control method is desirable.

We might obtain more efficiency than the banded structure if we view (6.4) as a block tridiagonal matrix and use the method provided by Golub and Van Loan (1996, p. 174). The final fine tuning of the solution method for this class of problems is a topic of current research, but the important point is that, whatever final procedure is selected, the computational cost will be linear in N as in DP instead of cubic in N as in dense least squares.

Furthermore, if we wish to see the connection to the DP solution, we can proceed as follows. Substitute $\Pi ( N ) = P _ { f }$ as in (1.12) of Chapter 1 and consider the last three-equation block of the matrix appearing in (6.4)
