# 1.2.6 Deterministic and Stochastic

If one examines measurements coming from any complex, physical process, fluctuations in the data as depicted in Figure 1.2 are invariably present. For applications at small length scales, the fluctuations may be caused by the random behavior of small numbers of molecules. This type of application is becoming increasingly prevalent as scientists and engineers study applications in nanotechnology. This type of system also arises in life science applications when modeling the interactions of a few virus particles or protein molecules with living cells. In these applications there is no deterministic simulation model; the only system model available is stochastic.

Linear time-invariant models. In mainstream, classical process control problems, we are usually concerned with modeling, monitoring and controlling macroscopic systems, i.e., we are not considering systems composed of small numbers of molecules. So one may naturally ask (many do) what is the motivation for stochastic models in this arena? The motivation for stochastic models is to account for the unmodeled effects of the environment (disturbances) on the system under study. If we examine the measurement from any process control system of interest, no matter how “macroscopic,” we are confronted with the physical reality that the measurement still looks a lot like Figure 1.2. If it is important to model the observed measurement fluctuations, we turn to stochastic models.

Some of the observed fluctuation in the data is assignable to the measurement device. This source of fluctuation is known as measurement “noise.” Some of the observed fluctuation in the data is assignable to unmodeled disturbances from the environment affecting the state of the system. The simplest stochastic model for representing these two possible sources of disturbances is a linear model with added random variables

$$x ^ {+} = A x + B u + G wy = C x + D u + v$$

with initial condition $x ( 0 ) = x _ { 0 }$ . The variable $\boldsymbol { w } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { g }$ is the random variable acting on the state transition, $\boldsymbol { \nu } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is a random variable acting on the measured output, and $x _ { 0 }$ is a random variable specifying the initial state. The random variable v is used to model the measurement noise and $w$ models the process disturbance. The matrix $G \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times g }$ allows further refinement of the modeling between the source of the disturbance and its effect on the state. Often G is chosen to be the identity matrix with $g = n$ .
