for $k \geq 0$ . The initial condition for the recursion is $\tilde { x } ^ { 0 } ( 0 ; a ) = a$ . The time-varying gains $\tilde { L } ( k )$ and associated cost matrices $P ^ { - } ( k )$ required are

$$
\begin{array}{l} P ^ {-} (k + 1) = G Q G ^ {\prime} + A P ^ {-} (k) A ^ {\prime} \\ - A P ^ {-} (k) C ^ {\prime} \left(C P ^ {-} (k) C ^ {\prime} + R\right) ^ {- 1} C P ^ {-} (k) A \tag {4.12} \\ \end{array}
\tilde {L} (k) = A P ^ {-} (k) C ^ {\prime} \left(C P ^ {-} (k) C ^ {\prime} + R\right) ^ {- 1} \tag {4.13}
$$

in which $P ^ { - } \left( 0 \right)$ is specified in the problem. As expected, these are the standard estimator recursions developed in Chapter 1. Asymptotic stability of the estimate error can be established by showing that $V ( k , \widetilde { x } ) : = ( 1 / 2 ) \widetilde { x } ^ { \prime } P ( k ) ^ { - 1 } \widetilde { x }$ is a Lyapunov function for (4.11) (Jazwinski, 1970, Theorem 7.4). Notice that this Lyapunov function is not the optimal cost of (4.10) as in a standard regulation problem. The optimal cost of (4.10), $V _ { T } ^ { 0 } ( a )$ , is an increasing function of T rather than a decreasing function of T as required for a Lyapunov function. Also note that the argument used in Jazwinski (1970) to establish that $V ( k , x )$ is a Lyapunov function for the linear system is more complicated than the argument used in Section 4.2 to prove stability of full information estimation for the nonlinear system. Although one can find Lyapunov functions valid for estimation, they do not have the same simple connection to optimal cost functions as in standard regulation problems, even in the linear, unconstrained case. Stability arguments based instead on properties of $V _ { T } ^ { 0 } ( a )$ are simpler and more easily adapted to cover new situations arising in research problems. If a Lyapunov function is required for further analysis, a converse theorem guarantees its existence.
