# Exercise 2.22: Filing for patent

An excited graduate student shows up at your office. He begins, “Look, I have discovered a great money-making scheme using MPC.” You ask him to tell you about it. “Well,” he says, “you told us in class that the optimal steady state is asymptotically stable even if you use the stage cost measuring distance from the unreachable setpoint, right?” You reply, “Yes, that’s what I said.” He continues, “OK, well look at this little sketch I drew,” and he shows you a picture like Figure 2.11. “So imagine I use the infinite horizon cost function so the open-loop and closed-loop trajectories are identical. If the best steady state is asymptotically stable, then the stage cost asymptotically approaches $\ell ( x _ { s } , u _ { s } )$ , right?” You reply, “I guess that looks right.” He then says, “OK, well if I look at the optimal cost using state x at time k and state $x ^ { + }$ at time $k + 1$ , by the principle of optimality I get the usual cost decrease”

$$V ^ {0} (x ^ {+}) \leq V ^ {0} (x) - \ell (x, u ^ {0} (x)) \tag {2.44}$$

You interrupt, “Wait, these $V ^ { 0 } ( \cdot )$ costs are not bounded in this case!” Unfazed, the student replies, “Yeah, I realize that, but this sketch is basically correct regardless. Say we just make the horizon really long; then the costs are all finite and this equation becomes closer and closer to being true as we make the horizon longer and longer.” You start to feel a little queasy at this point. The student continues, “OK, so if this inequality basically holds, $V ^ { 0 } ( x ( k ) )$ is decreasing with k along the closed-loop trajectory, it is bounded below for all k, it converges, and, therefore, $\ell ( x ( k ) , u ^ { 0 } ( x ( k ) ) )$ goes to zero as k goes to $\infty . \stackrel { \mathfrak { n } } { }$ You definitely don’t like where this is heading, and the student finishes with, “But $\ell ( x , u ) = 0$ implies $x = x _ { \mathrm { s p } }$ and $u = u _ { \mathrm { s p } }$ , and the setpoint is supposed to be unreachable. But I have proven that infinite horizon MPC can reach an unreachable setpoint. We should patent this!”

How do you respond to this student? Here are some issues to consider.
