We consider systems with input disturbances and noisy state measurement; we employ the “tube” methodology that has its roots in the work of Bertsekas and Rhodes (1971), and Glover and Schweppe (1971) on constrained discrete time systems subject to bounded disturbances. Reachability of a “target set” and a “target tube” are considered in these papers. These concepts were substantially developed in the context of continuous time systems in Khurzhanski and Valyi (1997); Aubin (1991); Kurzhanski and Filippova (1993). The theory for discrete time systems is considerably simpler; a modern tube-based theory for optimal control of discrete time uncertain systems with imperfect state measurement appears in Moiti´e et al. (2002). As in this chapter, they regard a set X of states x that are consistent with past measurements as the “state” of the optimal control problem. The set X satisfies an uncertain “full information” difference equation of the form $X ^ { + } = f ^ { * } ( X , u , \mathbb { W } , \nu )$ so the output feedback optimal control problem reduces to robust control of an uncertain system with known state X. The optimal control problem remains difficult because the state X, a subset of $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , is difficult to obtain numerically and determination of a control law as a function of (X, t) prohibitive. In Mayne, Rakovi´c, Findeisen, and Allg¨ower (2006, 2009) the output feedback problem is simplified considerably by replacing X(t) by a simple outer approximation $\{ \hat { x } ( t ) \} \oplus \mathbb { \Sigma } _ { x }$ in the time-invariant case and by $\{ \hat { x } ( t ) \} \oplus \mathbb { \Sigma } _ { x } ( t )$ in the time-varying case. The set $\mathbb { \Sigma } _ { x }$ , or the sequence $\{ \Sigma _ { x } ( t ) \}$ , may be precomputed so the difficult evolution equation for X is replaced by a simple evolution equation for ${ \hat { x } } ;$ in the linear case, the Luenberger observer or Kalman filter describes the evolution of $\hat { x }$ . The output feedback control problem reduces to control of an uncertain system with known state xˆ.
