In this chapter we study MPC for the case when the state is known. This case is particularly important, even though it rarely arises in practice, because important properties, such as stability and performance, may be relatively easily established. The relative simplicity of this case arises from the fact that if the state is known and if there are no disturbances or model error, the problem is deterministic, i.e., there is no uncertainty making feedback unnecessary in principle. As we pointed out previously, for deterministic systems the MPC action for a given state is identical to the receding horizon control law, determined using DP, and evaluated at the given state. When the state is not known, it has to be estimated and state estimation error, together with model error and disturbances, makes the system uncertain in that future trajectories cannot be precisely predicted. The simple connection between MPC and the DP solution is lost because there does not exist an open-loop optimal control problem whose solution yields a control action that is the same as that obtained by the DP solution. A practical consequence is that special techniques are required to ensure robustness against these various forms of uncertainty. So the results of this chapter hold when there is no uncertainty. We prove, in particular, that the optimal control problem that defines the model predictive control can always be solved if the initial optimal control problem can be solved, and that the optimal cost can always be reduced allowing us to prove asymptotic or exponential stability of the target state. We refer to stability in the absence of uncertainty as nominal stability.
