# 5.7 Notes

The problem of output feedback control has been extensively discussed in the general control literature. It is well known that, for linear systems, a stabilizing state feedback controller and an observer may be separately designed and combined to give a stabilizing output feedback controller (the separation principle). For nonlinear systems, Teel and Praly (1994) show that global stabilizability and complete uniform observability are sufficient to guarantee semiglobal stabilizability using a dynamic observer and provide useful references to related work on this topic.

Although output MPC in which nominal MPC is combined with a separately designed observer is widely used in industry since the state is seldom available, it has received relatively little attention in the literature because of the inherent difficulty in establishing asymptotic stability. An extra complexity in MPC is the presence of hard constraints. A useful survey, more comprehensive than these notes, is provided in Findeisen, Imsland, Allg¨ower, and Foss (2003). Thus Michalska and Mayne (1995) show for deterministic systems that, for any subset of the region of attraction of the full state feedback system, there exists a sampling time and convergence rate for the observer such that the subset also lies in the region of attraction of the output feedback system. A more sophisticated analysis in Imsland, Findeisen, Allg¨ower, and Foss (2003) using continuous time MPC shows that the region of attraction and rate of convergence of the output feedback system can approach that of the state feedback system as observer gain increases.
