# 4–1 INTRODUCTION

This chapter treats mathematical modeling of fluid systems and thermal systems. As the most versatile medium for transmitting signals and power, fluids—liquids and gases— have wide usage in industry. Liquids and gases can be distinguished basically by their relative incompressibilities and the fact that a liquid may have a free surface, whereas a gas expands to fill its vessel. In the engineering field the term pneumatic describes fluid systems that use air or gases and hydraulic applies to those using oil.

We first discuss liquid-level systems that are frequently used in process control. Here we introduce the concepts of resistance and capacitance to describe the dynamics of such systems. Then we treat pneumatic systems. Such systems are extensively used in the automation of production machinery and in the field of automatic controllers. For instance, pneumatic circuits that convert the energy of compressed air into mechanical energy enjoy wide usage.Also, various types of pneumatic controllers are widely used in industry. Next, we present hydraulic servo systems.These are widely used in machine tool systems, aircraft control systems, etc. We discuss basic aspects of hydraulic servo systems and hydraulic controllers. Both pneumatic systems and hydraulic systems can be modeled easily by using the concepts of resistance and capacitance. Finally, we treat simple thermal systems. Such systems involve heat transfer from one substance to another. Mathematical models of such systems can be obtained by using thermal resistance and thermal capacitance.

Outline of the Chapter. Section 4–1 has presented introductory material for the chapter. Section 4–2 discusses liquid-level systems. Section 4–3 treats pneumatic systems—in particular, the basic principles of pneumatic controllers. Section 4–4 first discusses hydraulic servo systems and then presents hydraulic controllers. Finally, Section 4–5 analyzes thermal systems and obtains mathematical models of such systems.
