The term $R _ { 1 } C _ { 2 } s$ in the denominator of the transfer function represents the interaction of two simple RC circuits. Since $\left( R _ { 1 } C _ { 1 } + R _ { 2 } C _ { 2 } + R _ { 1 } C _ { 2 } \right) ^ { 2 } > 4 \bar { R _ { 1 } } C _ { 1 } R _ { 2 } C _ { 2 }$ the two roots, of the denominator of Equation (3–33) are real.

The present analysis shows that, if two RC circuits are connected in cascade so that the output from the first circuit is the input to the second, the overall transfer function is not the product of $1 / \big ( R _ { 1 } C _ { 1 } s + 1 \big )$ and $1 / \big ( R _ { 2 } C _ { 2 } s + 1 \big )$ The reason for thisB. is that, when we derive the transfer function for an isolated circuit, we implicitly assume that the output is unloaded. In other words, the load impedance is assumed to be infinite, which means that no power is being withdrawn at the output.When the second circuit is connected to the output of the first, however, a certain amount of power is withdrawn, and thus the assumption of no loading is violated. Therefore, if the transfer function of this system is obtained under the assumption of no loading, then it is not valid. The degree of the loading effect determines the amount of modification of the transfer function.

Complex Impedances. In deriving transfer functions for electrical circuits, we frequently find it convenient to write the Laplace-transformed equations directly, without writing the differential equations. Consider the system shown in Figure 3–9(a). In this system, $Z _ { 1 }$ and $Z _ { 2 }$ represent complex impedances. The complex impedance $Z ( s )$ of a two-terminal circuit is the ratio of $E ( s )$ , the Laplace transform of the voltage across the terminals, to $I ( s )$ , the Laplace transform of the current through the element, under the assumption that the initial conditions are zero, so that $Z ( s ) = E ( s ) / I ( s )$ . If the two-terminal element is a resistance $R ,$ , capacitance $C ,$ , or inductance $L .$ , then the complex impedance is given by R, 1/Cs, or $L s ,$ respectively. If complex impedances are connected in series, the total impedance is the sum of the individual complex impedances.
