# A Few Remarks on the Experimental Determination of Transfer Functions

1. It is usually easier to make accurate amplitude measurements than accurate phaseshift measurements. Phase-shift measurements may involve errors that may be caused by instrumentation or by misinterpretation of the experimental records.   
2. The frequency response of measuring equipment used to measure the system output must have a nearly flat magnitude-versus-frequency curve. In addition, the phase angle must be nearly proportional to the frequency.   
3. Physical systems may have several kinds of nonlinearities. Therefore, it is necessary to consider carefully the amplitude of input sinusoidal signals. If the amplitude of the input signal is too large, the system will saturate, and the frequency-response test will yield inaccurate results. On the other hand, a small signal will cause errors due to dead zone. Hence, a careful choice of the amplitude of the input sinusoidal signal must be made. It is necessary to sample the waveform of the system output to make sure that the waveform is sinusoidal and that the system is operating in the linear region during the test period. (The waveform of the system output is not sinusoidal when the system is operating in its nonlinear region.)   
4. If the system under consideration is operating continuously for days and weeks, then normal operation need not be stopped for frequency-response tests. The sinusoidal test signal may be superimposed on the normal inputs.Then, for linear systems, the output due to the test signal is superimposed on the normal output. For the determination of the transfer function while the system is in normal operation, stochastic signals (white noise signals) also are often used. By use of correlation functions, the transfer function of the system can be determined without interrupting normal operation.
