If all closed-loop poles lie in the left-half s plane, then the exponential terms and the damped exponential terms in Equation (5–34) will approach zero as time t increases. The steady-state output is then $c ( \infty ) = a .$ .

Let us assume that the system considered is a stable one.Then the closed-loop poles that are located far from the jv axis have large negative real parts. The exponential terms that correspond to these poles decay very rapidly to zero. (Note that the horizontal distance from a closed-loop pole to the jv axis determines the settling time of transients due to that pole. The smaller the distance is, the longer the settling time.)

Remember that the type of transient response is determined by the closed-loop poles, while the shape of the transient response is primarily determined by the closedloop zeros. As we have seen earlier, the poles of the input $R ( s )$ yield the steady-state response terms in the solution, while the poles of $C ( s ) / R ( s )$ enter into the exponential transient-response terms and/or damped sinusoidal transient-response terms.The zeros of $C ( s ) / R ( s )$ do not affect the exponents in the exponential terms, but they do affect the magnitudes and signs of the residues.

Dominant Closed-Loop Poles. The relative dominance of closed-loop poles is determined by the ratio of the real parts of the closed-loop poles, as well as by the relative magnitudes of the residues evaluated at the closed-loop poles. The magnitudes of the residues depend on both the closed-loop poles and zeros.

If the ratios of the real parts of the closed-loop poles exceed 5 and there are no zeros nearby, then the closed-loop poles nearest the jv axis will dominate in the transientresponse behavior because these poles correspond to transient-response terms that decay slowly. Those closed-loop poles that have dominant effects on the transientresponse behavior are called dominant closed-loop poles. Quite often the dominant closed-loop poles occur in the form of a complex-conjugate pair. The dominant closedloop poles are most important among all closed-loop poles.

Note that the gain of a higher-order system is often adjusted so that there will exist a pair of dominant complex-conjugate closed-loop poles. The presence of such poles in a stable system reduces the effects of such nonlinearities as dead zone, backlash, and coulomb-friction.
