Thus, the error at one octave below or above the corner frequency is approximately equal to –1 dB. Similarly, the error at one decade below or above the corner frequency is approximately –0.04 dB. The error in decibels involved in using the asymptotic expression for the frequency-response curve of $1 / ( 1 + j \omega T )$ is shown in Figure 7–7. The error is symmetric with respect to the corner frequency.

Since the asymptotes are quite easy to draw and are sufficiently close to the exact curve, the use of such approximations in drawing Bode diagrams is convenient in establishing the general nature of the frequency-response characteristics quickly with a minimum amount of calculation and may be used for most preliminary design work. If accurate frequency-response curves are desired, corrections may easily be made by referring to the curve given in Figure 7–7. In practice, an accurate frequency-response curve can be drawn by introducing a correction of 3 dB at the corner frequency and a correction of 1 dB at points one octave below and above the corner frequency and then connecting these points by a smooth curve.

Note that varying the time constant T shifts the corner frequency to the left or to the right, but the shapes of the log-magnitude and the phase-angle curves remain the same.

The transfer function $1 / ( 1 + j \omega T )$ has the characteristics of a low-pass filter. For frequencies above $\omega = 1 / T$ , the log magnitude falls off rapidly toward – q. This is essentially due to the presence of the time constant. In the low-pass filter, the output can follow a sinusoidal input faithfully at low frequencies. But as the input frequency is increased, the output cannot follow the input because a certain amount of time is required for the system to build up in magnitude. Thus, at high frequencies, the amplitude of the output approaches zero and the phase angle of the output approaches –90°. Therefore, if the input function contains many harmonics, then the low-frequency components are reproduced faithfully at the output, while the highfrequency components are attenuated in amplitude and shifted in phase. Thus, a firstorder element yields exact, or almost exact, duplication only for constant or slowly varying phenomena.

An advantage of the Bode diagram is that for reciprocal factors—for example, the factor $1 + j \omega T -$ the log-magnitude and the phase-angle curves need only be changed in sign, since
