In any open-loop control system the output is not compared with the reference input. Thus, to each reference input there corresponds a fixed operating condition; as a result, the accuracy of the system depends on calibration. In the presence of disturbances, an open-loop control system will not perform the desired task. Open-loop control can be used, in practice, only if the relationship between the input and output is known and if there are neither internal nor external disturbances. Clearly, such systems are not feedback control systems. Note that any control system that operates on a time basis is open loop. For instance, traffic control by means of signals operated on a time basis is another example of open-loop control.

Closed-Loop versus Open-Loop Control Systems. An advantage of the closedloop control system is the fact that the use of feedback makes the system response relatively insensitive to external disturbances and internal variations in system parameters. It is thus possible to use relatively inaccurate and inexpensive components to obtain the accurate control of a given plant, whereas doing so is impossible in the open-loop case.

From the point of view of stability, the open-loop control system is easier to build because system stability is not a major problem. On the other hand, stability is a major problem in the closed-loop control system, which may tend to overcorrect errors and thereby can cause oscillations of constant or changing amplitude.

It should be emphasized that for systems in which the inputs are known ahead of time and in which there are no disturbances it is advisable to use open-loop control. Closed-loop control systems have advantages only when unpredictable disturbances and/or unpredictable variations in system components are present. Note that the output power rating partially determines the cost, weight, and size of a control system. The number of components used in a closed-loop control system is more than that for a corresponding open-loop control system. Thus, the closed-loop control system is generally higher in cost and power.To decrease the required power of a system, openloop control may be used where applicable. A proper combination of open-loop and closed-loop controls is usually less expensive and will give satisfactory overall system performance.
