For nonstandard second-order systems and higher-order systems, the correlation is more complex, and the transient response may not be predicted easily from the frequency response because additional zeros and/or poles may change the correlation between the step transient response and the frequency response existing for the standard second-order system. Mathematical techniques for obtaining the exact correlation are available, but they are very laborious and of little practical value.

The applicability of the transient-response–frequency-response correlation existing for the standard second-order system shown in Figure 7–73 to higher-order systems depends on the presence of a dominant pair of complex-conjugate closed-loop poles in the latter systems. Clearly, if the frequency response of a higher-order system is dominated by a pair of complex-conjugate closed-loop poles, the transient-response– frequency-response correlation existing for the standard second-order system can be extended to the higher-order system.

For linear, time-invariant, higher-order systems having a dominant pair of complexconjugate closed-loop poles, the following relationships generally exist between the step transient response and frequency response:

1. The value of $M _ { r }$ is indicative of the relative stability. Satisfactory transient performance is usually obtained if the value of $M _ { r }$ is in the range $1 . 0 < M _ { r } < 1 . 4$ 4 $\left( 0 \ \mathrm { \ d B } < M _ { r } < 3 \ \mathrm { \ d B } \right)$ , which corresponds to an effective damping ratio of $0 . 4 < \zeta < 0 . 7$ . For values of $M _ { r }$ greater than 1.5, the step transient response may exhibit several overshoots. (Note that, in general, a large value of $M _ { r }$ corresponds to a large overshoot in the step transient response. If the system is subjected to noise signals whose frequencies are near the resonant frequency $\omega _ { r }$ , the noise will be amplified in the output and will present serious problems.)

2. The magnitude of the resonant frequency $\omega _ { r }$ is indicative of the speed of the transient response. The larger the value of $\omega _ { r }$ , the faster the time response is. In other words, the rise time varies inversely with $\omega _ { r }$ . In terms of the open-loop frequency response, the damped natural frequency in the transient response is somewhere between the gain crossover frequency and phase crossover frequency.
