# 10–1 INTRODUCTION

This chapter discusses state-space design methods based on the pole-placement method, observers, the quadratic optimal regulator systems, and introductory aspects of robust control systems.The pole-placement method is somewhat similar to the root-locus method in that we place closed-loop poles at desired locations. The basic difference is that in the root-locus design we place only the dominant closed-loop poles at the desired locations, while in the pole-placement design we place all closed-loop poles at desired locations.

We begin by presenting the basic materials on pole placement in regulator systems. We then discuss the design of state observers, followed by the design of regulator systems and control systems using the pole-placement-with-state-observer approach.Then, we discuss the quadratic optimal regulator systems. Finally, we present an introduction to robust control systems.

Outline of the Chapter. Section 10–1 has presented introductory material. Section 10–2 discusses the pole-placement approach to the design of control systems. We begin with the derivation of the necessary and sufficient conditions for arbitrary pole placement. Then we derive equations for the state feedback gain matrix K for pole placement. Section 10–3 presents the solution of the pole-placement problem with MATLAB. Section 10–4 discusses the design of servo systems using the pole-placement approach. Section 10–5 presents state observers. We discuss both full-order and minimum-order state observers. Also, transfer functions of observer controllers are derived. Section 10–6 presents the design of regulator systems with observers. Section 10–7 treats the design of control systems with observers. Section 10–8 discusses quadratic optimal regulator systems. Note that the state feedback gain matrix K can be obtained by both the pole-placement method and the quadratic optimal control method. Finally, Section 10–9 presents robust control systems. The discussions here are limited to introductory subjects only.
