Design by Root-Locus Method. The design by the root-locus method is based on reshaping the root locus of the system by adding poles and zeros to the system’s open-loop transfer function and forcing the root loci to pass through desired closed-loop poles in the s plane.The characteristic of the root-locus design is its being based on the assumption that the closed-loop system has a pair of dominant closed-loop poles.This means that the effects of zeros and additional poles do not affect the response characteristics very much.

In designing a control system, if other than a gain adjustment (or other parameter adjustment) is required, we must modify the original root loci by inserting a suitable compensator. Once the effects on the root locus of the addition of poles and/or zeros are fully understood, we can readily determine the locations of the pole(s) and zero(s) of the compensator that will reshape the root locus as desired. In essence, in the design by the rootlocus method, the root loci of the system are reshaped through the use of a compensator so that a pair of dominant closed-loop poles can be placed at the desired location.

Series Compensation and Parallel (or Feedback) Compensation. Figures 6–33(a) and (b) show compensation schemes commonly used for feedback control systems. Figure 6–33(a) shows the configuration where the compensator Gc(s) is placed in series with the plant. This scheme is called series compensation.

An alternative to series compensation is to feed back the signal(s) from some element(s) and place a compensator in the resulting inner feedback path, as shown in Figure 6–33(b). Such compensation is called parallel compensation or feedback compensation.

In compensating control systems, we see that the problem usually boils down to a suitable design of a series or parallel compensator. The choice between series compensation and parallel compensation depends on the nature of the signals in the system, the power levels at various points, available components, the designer’s experience, economic considerations, and so on.
