2. If any of the coefficients are zero or negative in the presence of at least one positive coefficient, a root or roots exist that are imaginary or that have positive real parts. Therefore, in such a case, the system is not stable. If we are interested in only the absolute stability, there is no need to follow the procedure further. Note that all the coefficients must be positive. This is a necessary condition, as may be seen from the following argument: A polynomial in s having real coefficients can always be factored into linear and quadratic factors, such as $( s + a )$ and $( s ^ { 2 } + b s + c )$ , where $a , b .$ , and c are real. The linear factors yield real roots and the quadratic factors yield complex-conjugate roots of the polynomial. The factor $( s ^ { 2 } \dot { + } b s + c )$ yields roots having negative real parts only if b and c are both positive. For all roots to have negative real parts, the constants $a , b , c ,$ , and so on, in all factors must be positive.The product of any number of linear and quadratic factors containing only positive coefficients always yields a polynomial with positive coefficients. It is important to note that the condition that all the coefficients be positive is not sufficient to assure stability. The necessary but not sufficient condition for stability is that the coefficients of Equation (5–61) all be present and all have a positive sign. (If all $\boldsymbol { a } ^ { * } \boldsymbol { \mathbf { s } }$ are negative, they can be made positive by multiplying both sides of the equation by –1.)

3. If all coefficients are positive, arrange the coefficients of the polynomial in rows and columns according to the following pattern:

$$
\begin{array}{c c c c c c} s ^ {n} & a _ {0} & a _ {2} & a _ {4} & a _ {6} & \ldots \\ s ^ {n - 1} & a _ {1} & a _ {3} & a _ {5} & a _ {7} & \ldots \\ s ^ {n - 2} & b _ {1} & b _ {2} & b _ {3} & b _ {4} & \ldots \\ s ^ {n - 3} & c _ {1} & c _ {2} & c _ {3} & c _ {4} & \ldots \\ s ^ {n - 4} & d _ {1} & d _ {2} & d _ {3} & d _ {4} & \ldots \\ \cdot & \cdot & \cdot \\ \cdot & \cdot & \cdot \\ \cdot & \cdot & \cdot \\ s ^ {2} & e _ {1} & e _ {2} \\ s ^ {1} & f _ {1} \\ s ^ {0} & g _ {1} \end{array}
$$

The process of forming rows continues until we run out of elements. (The total number of rows is $n + 1 . )$ The coefficients $b _ { 1 } , b _ { 2 } , b _ { 3 }$ , and so on, are evaluated as follows:

$$b _ {1} = \frac {a _ {1} a _ {2} - a _ {0} a _ {3}}{a _ {1}}b _ {2} = \frac {a _ {1} a _ {4} - a _ {0} a _ {5}}{a _ {1}}b _ {3} = \frac {a _ {1} a _ {6} - a _ {0} a _ {7}}{a _ {1}}$$
