Simplicity Versus Accuracy. In obtaining a mathematical model, we must make a compromise between the simplicity of the model and the accuracy of the results of the analysis. In deriving a reasonably simplified mathematical model, we frequently find it necessary to ignore certain inherent physical properties of the system. In particular, if a linear lumped-parameter mathematical model (that is, one employing ordinary differential equations) is desired, it is always necessary to ignore certain nonlinearities and distributed parameters that may be present in the physical system. If the effects that these ignored properties have on the response are small, good agreement will be obtained between the results of the analysis of a mathematical model and the results of the experimental study of the physical system.

In general, in solving a new problem, it is desirable to build a simplified model so that we can get a general feeling for the solution.A more complete mathematical model may then be built and used for a more accurate analysis.

We must be well aware that a linear lumped-parameter model, which may be valid in low-frequency operations, may not be valid at sufficiently high frequencies, since the neglected property of distributed parameters may become an important factor in the dynamic behavior of the system. For example, the mass of a spring may be neglected in lowfrequency operations, but it becomes an important property of the system at high frequencies. (For the case where a mathematical model involves considerable errors, robust control theory may be applied. Robust control theory is presented in Chapter 10.)

Linear Systems. A system is called linear if the principle of superposition applies. The principle of superposition states that the response produced by the simultaneous application of two different forcing functions is the sum of the two individual responses. Hence, for the linear system, the response to several inputs can be calculated by treating one input at a time and adding the results. It is this principle that allows one to build up complicated solutions to the linear differential equation from simple solutions.

In an experimental investigation of a dynamic system, if cause and effect are proportional, thus implying that the principle of superposition holds, then the system can be considered linear.
