Generally, the performance specifications should not be more stringent than necessary to perform the given task. If the accuracy at steady-state operation is of prime importance in a given control system, then we should not require unnecessarily rigid performance specifications on the transient response, since such specifications will require expensive components. Remember that the most important part of control system design is to state the performance specifications precisely so that they will yield an optimal control system for the given purpose.

System Compensation. Setting the gain is the first step in adjusting the system for satisfactory performance. In many practical cases, however, the adjustment of the gain alone may not provide sufficient alteration of the system behavior to meet the given specifications. As is frequently the case, increasing the gain value will improve the steady-state behavior but will result in poor stability or even instability. It is then necessary to redesign the system (by modifying the structure or by incorporating additional devices or components) to alter the overall behavior so that the system will behave as desired. Such a redesign or addition of a suitable device is called compensation. A device inserted into the system for the purpose of satisfying the specifications is called a compensator. The compensator compensates for deficient performance of the original system.

Design Procedures. In the process of designing a control system, we set up a mathematical model of the control system and adjust the parameters of a compensator. The most time-consuming part of the work is the checking of the system performance by analysis with each adjustment of the parameters.The designer should use MATLAB or other available computer package to avoid much of the numerical drudgery necessary for this checking.
