To plot the Bode diagram, the separate asymptotic curves for each of the factors are shown in Figure 7–11.The composite curve is then obtained by algebraically adding the individual curves, also shown in Figure 7–11. Note that when the individual asymptotic curves are added at each frequency, the slope of the composite curve is cumulative. Below $\omega = \sqrt { 2 }$ the plot has the slope of, –20 dBdecade.At the first corner frequency $\omega = \sqrt { 2 }$ the slope changes to –60 dBdecade and, continues to the next corner frequency $\omega = 2$ , where the slope becomes –80 dBdecade. At the last corner frequency $\omega = 3 ,$ , the slope changes to –60 dBdecade.

Once such an approximate log-magnitude curve has been drawn, the actual curve can be obtained by adding corrections at each corner frequency and at frequencies one octave below and above the corner frequencies. For first-order factors $( 1 + j \omega T ) ^ { \mp 1 }$ , the corrections are ;3 dB at the corner frequency and ;1 dB at the frequencies one octave below and above the corner frequency. Corrections necessary for the quadratic factor are obtained from Figure 7–9.The exact log-magnitude curve for $G ( j \omega )$ is shown by a dashed curve in Figure 7–11.

Note that any change in the slope of the magnitude curve is made only at the corner frequencies of the transfer function $G ( j \omega )$ . Therefore, instead of drawing individual magnitude curves and adding them up, as shown, we may sketch the magnitude curve without sketching individual curves. We may start drawing the lowest-frequency portion of the straight line (that is, the straight line with the slope –20 dBdecade for $\omega < \sqrt { 2 } )$ . As the frequency is increased, we get the effect of the complex-conjugate poles (quadratic term) at the corner frequency $\omega = \sqrt { 2 }$ The complex-conjugate poles cause the slopes of the magnitude curve to change from. –20 to –60 dBdecade. At the next corner frequency, $\omega = 2$ , the effect of the pole is to change the slope to –80 dBdecade. Finally, at the corner frequency $\omega = 3$ , the effect of the zero is to change the slope from –80 to –60 dBdecade.

For plotting the complete phase-angle curve, the phase-angle curves for all factors have to be sketched. The algebraic sum of all phase-angle curves provides the complete phase-angle curve, as shown in Figure 7–11.
