State Variables. The state variables of a dynamic system are the variables making up the smallest set of variables that determine the state of the dynamic system. If at least n variables $x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } , \ldots , x _ { n }$ are needed to completely describe the behavior of a dynamic system (so that once the input is given for $t \geq t _ { 0 }$ and the initial state at $t = t _ { 0 }$ is specified, the future state of the system is completely determined), then such n variables are a set of state variables.

Note that state variables need not be physically measurable or observable quantities. Variables that do not represent physical quantities and those that are neither measurable nor observable can be chosen as state variables. Such freedom in choosing state variables is an advantage of the state-space methods. Practically, however, it is convenient to choose easily measurable quantities for the state variables, if this is possible at all, because optimal control laws will require the feedback of all state variables with suitable weighting.

State Vector. If n state variables are needed to completely describe the behavior of a given system, then these n state variables can be considered the n components of a vector x. Such a vector is called a state vector. A state vector is thus a vector that determines uniquely the system state ${ \bf x } ( t )$ for any time $t \geq t _ { 0 }$ , once the state at $t = t _ { 0 }$ is given and the input $u ( t )$ for $t \geq t _ { 0 }$ is specified.

State Space. The n-dimensional space whose coordinate axes consist of the $x _ { 1 }$ axis, $x _ { 2 }$ axis, $\cdots , x _ { n }$ axis, where $x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } , \ldots , x _ { n }$ are state variables, is called a state space. Any state can be represented by a point in the state space.

State-Space Equations. In state-space analysis we are concerned with three types of variables that are involved in the modeling of dynamic systems: input variables, output variables, and state variables. As we shall see in Section 2–5, the state-space representation for a given system is not unique, except that the number of state variables is the same for any of the different state-space representations of the same system.
