# 9–1 INTRODUCTION\*

A modern complex system may have many inputs and many outputs, and these may be interrelated in a complicated manner. To analyze such a system, it is essential to reduce the complexity of the mathematical expressions, as well as to resort to computers for most of the tedious computations necessary in the analysis.The state-space approach to system analysis is best suited from this viewpoint.

While conventional control theory is based on the input–output relationship, or transfer function, modern control theory is based on the description of system equations in terms of n first-order differential equations, which may be combined into a first-order vector-matrix differential equation. The use of vector-matrix notation greatly simplifies the mathematical representation of systems of equations.The increase in the number of state variables, the number of inputs, or the number of outputs does not increase the complexity of the equations. In fact, the analysis of complicated multiple-input, multipleoutput systems can be carried out by procedures that are only slightly more complicated than those required for the analysis of systems of first-order scalar differential equations.

This chapter and the next deal with the state-space analysis and design of control systems. Basic materials of state-space analysis, including the state-space representation of systems, controllability, and observability are presented in this chapter. Useful design methods based on state-feedback control are given in Chapter 10.

Outline of the Chapter. Section 9–1 has presented an introduction to state-space analysis of control systems. Section 9–2 deals with the state-space representation of transfer-function systems. Here we present various canonical forms of state-space equations. Section 9–3 discusses the transformation of system models (such as from transferfunction to state-space models, and vice versa) with MATLAB. Section 9–4 presents the solution of time-invariant state equations. Section 9–5 gives some useful results in vector-matrix analysis that are necessary in studying the state-space analysis of control systems. Section 9–6 discusses the controllability of control systems and Section 9–7 treats the observability of control systems.
