Design in the frequency domain is simple and straightforward. The frequencyresponse plot indicates clearly the manner in which the system should be modified, although the exact quantitative prediction of the transient-response characteristics cannot be made. The frequency-response approach can be applied to systems or components whose dynamic characteristics are given in the form of frequency-response data. Note that because of difficulty in deriving the equations governing certain components, such as pneumatic and hydraulic components, the dynamic characteristics of such components are usually determined experimentally through frequency-response tests.The experimentally obtained frequency-response plots can be combined easily with other such plots when the Bode diagram approach is used. Note also that in dealing with highfrequency noises we find that the frequency-response approach is more convenient than other approaches.

There are basically two approaches in the frequency-domain design. One is the polar plot approach and the other is the Bode diagram approach. When a compensator is added, the polar plot does not retain the original shape, and, therefore, we need to draw a new polar plot, which will take time and is thus inconvenient. On the other hand, a Bode diagram of the compensator can be simply added to the original Bode diagram, and thus plotting the complete Bode diagram is a simple matter. Also, if the open-loop gain is varied, the magnitude curve is shifted up or down without changing the slope of the curve, and the phase curve remains the same. For design purposes, therefore, it is best to work with the Bode diagram.

A common approach to the design based on the Bode diagram is that we first adjust the open-loop gain so that the requirement on the steady-state accuracy is met.Then the magnitude and phase curves of the uncompensated open loop (with the open-loop gain just adjusted) are plotted. If the specifications on the phase margin and gain margin are not satisfied, then a suitable compensator that will reshape the open-loop transfer function is determined. Finally, if there are any other requirements to be met, we try to satisfy them, unless some of them are mutually contradictory.
