Transient Response and Steady-State Response. The time response of a control system consists of two parts: the transient response and the steady-state response. By transient response, we mean that which goes from the initial state to the final state. By steady-state response, we mean the manner in which the system output behaves as t approaches infinity. Thus the system response c(t) may be written as

$$c (t) = c _ {\mathrm{tr}} (t) + c _ {\mathrm{ss}} (t)$$

where the first term on the right-hand side of the equation is the transient response and the second term is the steady-state response.

Absolute Stability, Relative Stability, and Steady-State Error. In designing a control system, we must be able to predict the dynamic behavior of the system from a knowledge of the components. The most important characteristic of the dynamic behavior of a control system is absolute stability—that is, whether the system is stable or unstable.A control system is in equilibrium if, in the absence of any disturbance or input, the output stays in the same state. A linear time-invariant control system is stable if the output eventually comes back to its equilibrium state when the system is subjected to an initial condition. A linear time-invariant control system is critically stable if oscillations of the output continue forever. It is unstable if the output diverges without bound from its equilibrium state when the system is subjected to an initial condition. Actually, the output of a physical system may increase to a certain extent but may be limited by mechanical “stops,” or the system may break down or become nonlinear after the output exceeds a certain magnitude so that the linear differential equations no longer apply.
