During the decade of the 1940s, frequency-response methods (especially the Bode diagram methods due to Bode) made it possible for engineers to design linear closedloop control systems that satisfied performance requirements. Many industrial control systems in 1940s and 1950s used PID controllers to control pressure, temperature, etc. In the early 1940s Ziegler and Nichols suggested rules for tuning PID controllers, called Ziegler–Nichols tuning rules. From the end of the 1940s to the 1950s, the root-locus method due to Evans was fully developed.

The frequency-response and root-locus methods, which are the core of classical control theory, lead to systems that are stable and satisfy a set of more or less arbitrary performance requirements. Such systems are, in general, acceptable but not optimal in any meaningful sense. Since the late 1950s, the emphasis in control design problems has been shifted from the design of one of many systems that work to the design of one optimal system in some meaningful sense.

As modern plants with many inputs and outputs become more and more complex, the description of a modern control system requires a large number of equations. Classical control theory, which deals only with single-input, single-output systems, becomes powerless for multiple-input, multiple-output systems. Since about 1960, because the availability of digital computers made possible time-domain analysis of complex systems, modern control theory, based on time-domain analysis and synthesis using state variables, has been developed to cope with the increased complexity of modern plants and the stringent requirements on accuracy, weight, and cost in military, space, and industrial applications.

During the years from 1960 to 1980, optimal control of both deterministic and stochastic systems, as well as adaptive and learning control of complex systems, were fully investigated. From 1980s to 1990s, developments in modern control theory were centered around robust control and associated topics.
