# 1–4 DESIGN AND COMPENSATION OF CONTROL SYSTEMS

This book discusses basic aspects of the design and compensation of control systems. Compensation is the modification of the system dynamics to satisfy the given specifications. The approaches to control system design and compensation used in this book are the root-locus approach, frequency-response approach, and the state-space approach. Such control systems design and compensation will be presented in Chapters 6, 7, 9 and 10. The PID-based compensational approach to control systems design is given in Chapter 8.

In the actual design of a control system, whether to use an electronic, pneumatic, or hydraulic compensator is a matter that must be decided partially based on the nature of the controlled plant. For example, if the controlled plant involves flammable fluid, then we have to choose pneumatic components (both a compensator and an actuator) to avoid the possibility of sparks. If, however, no fire hazard exists, then electronic compensators are most commonly used. (In fact, we often transform nonelectrical signals into electrical signals because of the simplicity of transmission, increased accuracy, increased reliability, ease of compensation, and the like.)

Performance Specifications. Control systems are designed to perform specific tasks. The requirements imposed on the control system are usually spelled out as performance specifications. The specifications may be given in terms of transient response requirements (such as the maximum overshoot and settling time in step response) and of steady-state requirements (such as steady-state error in following ramp input) or may be given in frequency-response terms. The specifications of a control system must be given before the design process begins.

For routine design problems, the performance specifications (which relate to accuracy, relative stability, and speed of response) may be given in terms of precise numerical values. In other cases they may be given partially in terms of precise numerical values and partially in terms of qualitative statements. In the latter case the specifications may have to be modified during the course of design, since the given specifications may never be satisfied (because of conflicting requirements) or may lead to a very expensive system.
