Important system behavior (other than absolute stability) to which we must give careful consideration includes relative stability and steady-state error. Since a physical control system involves energy storage, the output of the system, when subjected to an input, cannot follow the input immediately but exhibits a transient response before a steady state can be reached. The transient response of a practical control system often exhibits damped oscillations before reaching a steady state. If the output of a system at steady state does not exactly agree with the input, the system is said to have steadystate error. This error is indicative of the accuracy of the system. In analyzing a control system, we must examine transient-response behavior and steady-state behavior.

Outline of the Chapter. This chapter is concerned with system responses to aperiodic signals (such as step, ramp, acceleration, and impulse functions of time). The outline of the chapter is as follows: Section 5–1 has presented introductory material for the chapter. Section 5–2 treats the response of first-order systems to aperiodic inputs. Section 5–3 deals with the transient response of the second-order systems. Detailed analyses of the step response, ramp response, and impulse response of the second-order systems are presented. Section 5–4 discusses the transient-response analysis of higherorder systems. Section 5–5 gives an introduction to the MATLAB approach to the solution of transient-response problems. Section 5–6 gives an example of a transient-response problem solved with MATLAB. Section 5–7 presents Routh’s stability criterion. Section 5–8 discusses effects of integral and derivative control actions on system performance. Finally, Section 5–9 treats steady-state errors in unity-feedback control systems.
