Chapter 6 treats the root-locus method of analysis and design of control systems. It is a graphical method for determining the locations of all closed-loop poles from the knowledge of the locations of the open-loop poles and zeros of a closed-loop system as a parameter (usually the gain) is varied from zero to infinity. This method was developed by W. R. Evans around 1950. These days MATLAB can produce root-locus plots easily and quickly.This chapter presents both a manual approach and a MATLAB approach to generate root-locus plots. Details of the design of control systems using lead compensators, lag compensators, are lag–lead compensators are presented in this chapter.

Chapter 7 presents the frequency-response method of analysis and design of control systems. This is the oldest method of control systems analysis and design and was developed during 1940–1950 by Nyquist, Bode, Nichols, Hazen, among others. This chapter presents details of the frequency-response approach to control systems design using lead compensation technique, lag compensation technique, and lag–lead compensation technique. The frequency-response method was the most frequently used analysis and design method until the state-space method became popular. However, since H-infinity control for designing robust control systems has become popular, frequency response is gaining popularity again.

Chapter 8 discusses PID controllers and modified ones such as multidegrees-offreedom PID controllers. The PID controller has three parameters; proportional gain, integral gain, and derivative gain. In industrial control systems more than half of the controllers used have been PID controllers. The performance of PID controllers depends on the relative magnitudes of those three parameters. Determination of the relative magnitudes of the three parameters is called tuning of PID controllers.

Ziegler and Nichols proposed so-called “Ziegler–Nichols tuning rules” as early as 1942. Since then numerous tuning rules have been proposed.These days manufacturers of PID controllers have their own tuning rules. In this chapter we present a computer optimization approach using MATLAB to determine the three parameters to satisfy given transient response characteristics.The approach can be expanded to determine the three parameters to satisfy any specific given characteristics.
