# AUTHOR'S BIOGRAPHY

Desineni “Subbaram” Naidu received his B.E. degree in Electrical Engineering from Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, India, and M.Tech. and Ph.D. degrees in Control Systems Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, India. He held various positions with the Department of Electrical Engineering at IIT. Dr. Naidu was a recipient of a Senior National Research Council (NRC) Associateship of the National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC, tenable at NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia, during 1985-87 and at the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB), Ohio, during 1998-99. During 1987-90, he was an adjunct faculty member in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Old Dominion University, Norfolk, Virginia. Since August 1990, Dr. Naidu has been a professor at Idaho State University. At present he is Director of the Measurement and Control Engineering Research Center; Coordinator, Electrical Engineering program; and Associate Dean of Graduate Studies in the College of Engineering, Idaho State University, Pocatello, Idaho.

Dr. Naidu has over 150 publications including a research monograph, Singular Perturbation Analysis of Discrete Control Systems, Lecture Notes in Mathematics, 1985; a book, Singular Perturbation Methodology in Control Systems, IEE Control Engineering Series, 1988; and a research monograph entitled, Aeroassisted Orbital Transfer: Guidance and Control Strategies, Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences, 1994.

Dr. Naidu is (or has been) a member of the Editorial Boards of the IEEE Transaction on Automatic Control, (1993-99), the International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, (1996-present), the International Journal of Control-Theory and Advanced Technology (C-TAT), (1992-1996), and a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of Mechatronics: The Science of Intelligent Machines, an International Journal, (1992-present).
