Rudolph E. Kalman is best known for the linear filtering technique that he and Richard Bucy [31] developed in 1960–1961 to strip unwanted noise out of a stream of data [71, 74, 76]. The Kalman filter, which is based on the use of state-space techniques and recursive algorithms, revolutionized the field of estimation. The Kalman filter is widely used in navigational and guidance systems, radar tracking, sonar ranging, and satellite orbit determination (for the Ranger, Apollo, and Mariner missions, for instance), as well as in fields as diverse as seismic data processing, nuclear power plant instrumentation, and econometrics. Among Kalman's many outstanding contributions were the formulation and study of most fundamental state-space notions [72, 73, 77] including controllability, observability, minimality, realizability from input and output data, matrix Riccati equations, linear-quadratic control [70, 75, 75], and the separation principle that are today ubiquitous in control. While some of these concepts were also encountered in other contexts, such as optimal control theory, it was Kalman who recognized the central role that they play in systems analysis.

Born in Hungary, Kalman received BS and MS degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and a DSci in engineering from Columbia University in 1957. In the early years of his career he held research positions at International Business Machines (IBM) and at the Research Institute for Advanced Studies (RIAS) in Baltimore. From 1962 to 1971, he was at Stanford University. In 1971, he became a graduate research professor and director of the Center for Mathematical System Theory at the University of Florida, Gainesville, USA, and later retired with emeritus status. Kalman's contributions to control theory and to applied mathematics and engineering in general have been widely recognized with several honors and awards.
