# 1.6 Chapter Overview

This book is composed of seven chapters. Chapter 2 presents optimal control via calculus of variations. In this chapter, we start with some basic definitions and a simple variational problem of extremizing a functional. We then bring in the plant as a conditional optimization problem and discuss various types of problems based on the boundary conditions. We briefly mention both Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formalisms for optimization. Next, Chapter 3 addresses basically the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) system. Here we discuss the closed-loop optimal control system introducing matrix Riccati differential and algebraic equations. We look at the analytical solution to the Riccati equations and development of MATLAB $^{©}$ routine for the analytical solution. Tracking and other problems of linear quadratic optimal control are discussed in Chapter 4. We also discuss the gain and phase margins of the LQR system.

So far the optimal control of continuous-time systems is described. Next, the optimal control of discrete-time systems is presented in Chapter 5. Here, we start with the basic calculus of variations and then touch upon all the topics discussed above with respect to the continuous-time systems. The Pontryagin Principle and associated topics of dynamic programming and Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman results are briefly covered in Chapter 6. The optimal control of systems with control and state constraints is described in Chapter 7. Here, we cover topics of control constraints leading to time-optimal, fuel-optimal and energy-optimal control systems and briefly discuss the state constraints problem.

Finally, the Appendices A and B provide summary of results on matrices, vectors, matrix algebra and state space, and Appendix C lists some of the MATLAB $^{©}$ files used in the book.
