Thus, optimal control, having its roots in calculus of variations developed during 16th and 17th centuries was really born over 300 years ago [132]. For additional details about the historical perspectives on calculus of variations and optimal control, the reader is referred to some excellent publications [58, 99, 28, 21, 132].

In the so-called linear quadratic control, the term “linear” refers to the plant being linear and the term “quadratic” refers to the performance index that involves the square or quadratic of an error, and/or control. Originally, this problem was called the mean-square control problem and the term “linear quadratic” did not appear in the literature until the late 1950s.

Basically the classical control theory using frequency domain deals with single input and single output (SISO) systems, whereas modern control theory works with time domain for SISO and multi-input and multi-output (MIMO) systems. Although modern control and hence optimal control appeared to be very attractive, it lacked a very important feature of robustness. That is, controllers designed based on LQR theory failed to be robust to measurement noise, external disturbances and unmodeled dynamics. On the other hand, frequency domain techniques using the ideas of gain margin and phase margin offer robustness in a natural way. Thus, some researchers $[115, 95]$ , especially in the United Kingdom, continued to work on developing frequency domain

approaches to MIMO systems.

One important and relevant field that has been developed around the 1980s is the $\mathcal{H}_{\infty}$ -optimal control theory. In this framework, the work developed in the 1960s and 1970s is labeled as $\mathcal{H}_2$ -optimal control theory. The seeds for $\mathcal{H}_{\infty}$ -optimal control theory were laid by G. Zames [148], who formulated the optimal $\mathcal{H}_{\infty}$ -sensitivity design problem for SISO systems and solved using optimal Nevanilina-Pick interpolation theory. An important publication in this field came from a group of four active researchers, Doyle, Glover, Khargonekar, and Francis[44], who won the 1991 W. R. G. Baker Award as the best IEEE Transactions paper. There are many other works in the field of $\mathcal{H}_{\infty}$ control ([51, 96, 43, 128, 7, 60, 131, 150, 39, 34]).
