where, $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is nth state vector, $\mathbf{y}(t)$ is mth output vector, $\mathbf{z}(t)$ is mth reference or desired output vector (or nth desired state vector, if the state $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is available), $\mathbf{u}(t)$ is rth control vector, and $\mathbf{e}(t)=\mathbf{z}(t)-\mathbf{y}(t)$ (or $\mathbf{e}(t)=\mathbf{z}(t)-\mathbf{x}(t)$ , if the state $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is directly available) is the mth error vector. $\mathbf{A}(t)$ is nxn state matrix, $\mathbf{B}(t)$ is nxr control matrix, and $\mathbf{C}(t)$ is mxn output matrix. We assume that the control $\mathbf{u}(t)$ is unconstrained, $0<m\leq r\leq n$ , and all the states and/or outputs are completely measurable. The preceding cost functional (3.1.3) contains quadratic terms in error $\mathbf{e}(t)$ and control $\mathbf{u}(t)$ and hence called the quadratic cost functional $^{2}$ . We also make certain assumptions to be described below on the various matrices in the quadratic cost functional (3.1.3). Under these assumptions, we will find that the optimal control is closed-loop in nature, that is, the optimal control $\mathbf{u}(t)$ is a function of the state $\mathbf{x}(t)$ or the output $\mathbf{y}(t)$ . Also, depending on the final time $t_{f}$ being finite (infinite), the system is called finite- (infinite-) time horizon system. Further, we have the following categories of systems.

1. If our objective is to keep the state $\mathbf{x}(t)$ near zero (i.e., $\mathbf{z}(t)=0$ and C=I), then we call it state regulator system. In other words, the objective is to obtain a control $\mathbf{u}(t)$ which takes the plant described by (3.1.1) and (3.1.2) from a nonzero state to zero state. This situation may arise when a plant is subjected to unwanted disturbances that perturb the state (for example, sudden load changes in an electrical voltage regulator system, sudden wind gust in a radar antenna positional control system).

2. If our interest is to keep the output $\mathbf{y}(t)$ near zero (i.e., $\mathbf{z}(t)=0$ ), then it is termed the output regulator system.
