# 1.4.1 Calculus of Variations

According to a legend [88], Tyrian princess Dido used a rope made of cowhide in the form of a circular arc to maximize the area to be occupied to found Carthage. Although the story of the founding of Carthage is fictitious, it probably inspired a new mathematical discipline, the calculus of variations and its extensions such as optimal control theory.

The calculus of variations is that branch of mathematics that deals with finding a function which is an extremum (maximum or minimum) of a functional. A functional is loosely defined as a function of a function. The theory of finding maxima and minima of functions is quite old and can be traced back to the isoperimetric problems considered by Greek mathematicians such as Zenodorus (495-435 B.C.) and by Poppus (c. 300 A.D.). But we will start with the works of Bernoulli. In 1699 Johannes Bernoulli (1667-1748) posed the brachistochrone problem: the problem of finding the path of quickest descent between two points not in the same horizontal or vertical line. This problem which was first posed by Galileo (1564-1642) in 1638, was solved by John, his brother Jacob (1654-1705), by Gottfried Leibniz (1646-1716), and anonymously by Isaac Newton (1642-1727). Leonard Euler (1707-1783) joined John Bernoulli and made some remarkable contributions, which influenced Joseph-Louis Lagrange (1736-1813), who finally gave an elegant way of solving these types of problems by using the method of (first) variations. This led Euler to coin the phrase calculus of variations. Later this necessary condition for extrema of a functional was called the Euler - the Lagrange equation. Lagrange went on to treat variable end - point problems introducing the multiplier method, which later became one of the most powerful tools-Lagrange (or Euler-Lagrange) multiplier method-in optimization.
