The sufficient conditions for finding the extrema of functionals in calculus of variations was given by Andrien Marie Legendre (1752-1833) in 1786 by considering additionally the second variation. Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi (1804-1851) in 1836 came up with a more rigorous analysis of the sufficient conditions. This sufficient condition was later on termed as the Legendre-Jacobi condition. At about the same time Sir William Rowan Hamilton (1788-1856) did some remarkable work on mechanics, by showing that the motion of a particle in space, acted upon by various external forces, could be represented by a single function which satisfies two first-order partial differential equations. In 1838 Jacobi had some objections to this work and showed the need for only one partial differential equation. This equation, called Hamilton-Jacobi equation, later had profound influence on the calculus of variations and dynamic programming, optimal control, and as well as on mechanics.

The distinction between strong and weak extrema was addressed by Karl Weierstrass (1815-1897) who came up with the idea of the field of extremals and gave the Weierstrass condition, and sufficient conditions for weak and strong extrema. Rudolph Clebsch (1833-1872) and Adolph Mayer proceeded with establishing conditions for the more general class of problems. Clebsch formulated a problem in the calculus of variations by adjoining the constraint conditions in the form of differential equations and provided a condition based on second variation. In 1868 Mayer reconsidered Clebsch's work and gave some elegant results for the general problem in the calculus of variations. Later Mayer described in detail the problems: the problem of Lagrange in 1878, and the problem of Mayer in 1895.
