L. S. Pontryagin (also known as L. S. by his associates) entered Moscow State University in 1925 and during the 1930s and 1940s, he made significant contributions to topology leading to the publication of Topological Groups which was translated into several languages. Later, as head of the Steklov Mathematical Institute, he devoted to engineering problems of mathematics and soon focused on two major problems of general theory of singularly perturbed systems of ordinary differential equations and the maximum principle in optimal control theory. In particular, in 1955, he formulated a general time-optimal control problem for a fifth-order dynamical system describing optimal maneuvers of an aircraft with bounded control functions. In trying to “invent a new calculus of variations,” he spent “three consecutive sleepless nights,” and came up with the idea of the Hamiltonian formulation for the problem and the adjoint differential equations, “thanks to his wonderful geometric insight.”

Pontryagin suggested to his former students and close associates V. Boltyanski and R. V. Gamkrelidze to join him in continuing investigations into the optimal control systems. Pontryagin and Boltyanski focused on controllability and Gamkrelidze investigated the second variation of the optimal control system which in fact led to the maximum principle. It took nearly a year to complete the full proof of the maximum principle and published as a short note in [25]. E. F. Mishchenko closely collaborated with L. S. during his later years and contributed to the development of the theory of singularly perturbed ordinary differential equations and differential games. The maximum principle was first presented at the International Congress of Mathematicians held in Edigburgh, UK, in 1958. The summary of the works on optimal control was published in English translation in 1962 by this group of mathematicians [109]. Pontryagin and his associates, for their works, were awarded the Lenin Prize in 1961.
