Lions, “The master equation and the convergence problem in mean field games,” Annals of Mathematics Studies, vol.
2019-Janua, no.
201, pp.
1–222, sep 2015.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.02505v1   
[25] D.
Vasal, A.
Sinha, and A.
Anastasopoulos, “A systematic process for evaluating structured perfect bayesian equilibria in dynamic games with asymmetric information,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2018.
[26] D.
Vasal and A.
Anastasopoulos, “Decentralized Bayesian learning in dynamic games,” in Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, 2016.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.06847   
[27] ——, “Signaling equilibria of dynamic LQG games with asymmetric information,” in Conference on Decision and Control, 2016.
[28] D.
Vasal, “Sequential Decomposition of Mean-Field Games,” in Proceedings of the American Control Conference, vol.
2020-July.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., jul 2020, pp.
5388–5393.
[29] D.
Vasal, R.
K.
Mishra, and S.
Vishwanath, “Sequential decomposition of graphon mean field games,” Proceedings of the American Control Conference, vol.
2021-May, pp.
730–736, jan 2020.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.05633v1   
[30] D.
Vasal, “Stochastic Stackelberg games,” may 2020.
[Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.01997   
[31] A.
Nayyar, A.
Mahajan, and D.
Teneketzis, “Decentralized stochastic control with partial history sharing: A common information approach,” Automatic Control, IEEE Transactions on, vol.
58, no.
7, pp.
1644–1658, 2013.
[32] L.
Jiang, V.
Anantharam, and J.
Walrand, “How bad are selfish investments in network security?” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol.
19, no.
2, pp.
549–560, 2011.
