In Section 3.1.2, quantum RL is explained referring to Q-learning. Table 1 compares Q-learning and quantum RL. The first column list the RL concepts. The second column define their implementation in Q-learning45. The third column lists their analogous in QML. The core concept is a data structure used to represent the expected future rewards for action at each state. Q-learning uses a table while QML employs a variational circuit. The following line quantifies the amount of resources needed in every case. For Q-learning, n times m expected reward numbers need to be stored, where n is the number of states and m the number of actions of the MDP. For QML, k log n quantum gates are required, where k is the number of gates used for each variational circuit line. Note that deep learning45–47 and QML can be used to approximate the Q-value function, with respectively, a neural network or a variational quantum circuit. The second line compares tuneable parameters, which are neural network weight for the classical model and variational circuit rotations for the quantum model. For both models, gradient descent optimization method is used to tune iteratively the model, the neural network or variational circuit. Chen et al.34 did a comparison of Deep learning and quantum RL. According to their analysis, similar results can be obtained with similar order quantities of resources. While there is no neural network computer in the works, apart for hardware accelerators, there are considerable efforts being deployed to develop the quantum computer48. The eventually available quantum computer will provide an incomparable advantage to the ones who will have access to the technology, in particular the defender or adversary.

There are a few options for quantum encoding of states, including computational basis encoding, single-qubit unitary encoding and probability encoding. They all have a time complexity cost proportional to the number of states. Computational basis encoding is the simplest to grasp. States are indexed $i = 0 , . . . , m - 1$ . In the quantum format, the state is represented as |ii.
