# References

Abi Jaber, E.
(2019).
Lifting the Heston model.
Quantitative Finance, 19, 1995-2013.
Abi Jaber, E.
and El Euch, O.
(2019).
Multi-factor approximation of rough volatility models.
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics, 10, 309-349.
Abi Jaber, E., Miller, E.
and Pham, H.
(2021).
Markowitz portfolio selection for multivariate affine and quadratic Volterra models.
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics, 12, 369- 409.
B¨auerle, N.
(2005).
Benchmark and mean-variance problems for insurers.
Mathematical Methods of Operations Research, 62, 159-165.
B¨auerle, N.
and Desmettre, S.
(2020).
Portfolio optimization in fractional and rough Heston models.
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics, 11, 240-273.
Belomestny, D., Kolodko, A.
and Schoenmakers, J.
(2010).
Regression methods for stochastic control problems and their convergence analysis.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 48, 3562-3588.
Bi, J.
and Cai, J.
(2019).
Optimal investment-reinsurance strategies with state dependent risk aversion and VaR constraints in correlated markets.
Insurance: Mathematics and Economics, 85, 1-14.
Chen, F.
and Shen, J.
(2020).
Stability and error analysis of operator splitting methods for American options under the Black-Scholes model.
Journal of Scientific Computing, 82, 1-17.
Cvitanic, J.
and Karatzas, I.
(1992).
Convex duality in constrained portfolio optimization.
The Annals of Applied Probability, 2, 767-818.
D´ecamps, J.P.
and Villeneuve, S.
(2019).
A two-dimensional control problem arising from dynamic contracting theory.
Finance and Stochastics, 23, 1-28.
Forsyth, P.A.
and Labahn, G.
(2007).
Numerical methods for controlled Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman PDEs in finance.
Journal of Computational Finance, 11, 1-43.
Grasselli, M.
(2017).
The 4/2 stochastic volatility model: a unified approach for the Heston and the 3/2 model.
Mathematical Finance, 27, 1013-1034.
Gu, J.W., Steffensen, M., and Zheng, H.
(2018).
Optimal dividend strategies of two collaborating businesses in the diffusion approximation model.
Mathematics of Operations Research, 43, 377-398.
Guan, C., Li, X., Xu, Z.Q., and Yi, F.
(2017).
A stochastic control problem and related free boundaries in finance.
Mathematical Control and Related Fields, 7, 563-584.
Guasoni, P.
and Muhle-Karbe, J.
(2013).
Portfolio choice with transaction costs: a user?s guide.
