# 4 Discussion

Section 3.2 detailed an illustrative example. Of course, it can be enriched. The successors of states 1 and 2 can be expanded. More elaborate railways can be represented. More sophisticated attack models can be studied. For example, let vi denote the velocity of Train i, where i is equal to 1 or 2. Hijacking control signals, the adversary may slowly change the velocity of one of the trains until the separation distance is not greater than a threshold τ. Mathematically, the velocity of the victimized train is represented as

$$v _ {i} (t + \Delta) = v _ {i} (t) + \alpha e ^ {\beta (t + \Delta)}.$$

The launched time of the attack is t. vi(t) is the train velocity at time t, while $\nu _ { i } ( t + \Delta )$ is the speed after a delay ∆. Symbols α and $\beta$ are constants. During normal operation, the two trains are moving at equal constant velocities. During an attack on the velocity of a train, the separation distance slowly shrinks down to a value equal to or lower than a threshold. The safe-distance constraint is violated. While an attack is being perpetrated, the state of the system must be recoverable43, i.e., the velocities and compromised actuators or sensors can be determined using redundant sensing resources.

The approach can easily be generalized to other applications. For instance, let us consider switching control strategies used to mitigate DoS attacks6 or input and output signal manipulation attacks44. States are controller configurations, actions are configuration-to-configuration transitions and rewards are degrees of attack mitigation. The variational circuit is trained such that the agent is steered in an attack mitigation condition. This steering strategy is acquired through RL.

Table 1. Conceptual comparison of classical versus quantum RL.

<table><tr><td colspan="3">Reinforcement Learning</td></tr><tr><td>Concept</td><td>Q-learning</td><td>Quantum</td></tr><tr><td>Data structure</td><td>Q-value table</td><td>Variational circuit</td></tr><tr><td>Resources</td><td>n times m numbers</td><td>k log n gates</td></tr></table>
