# 5 Conclusion

We have presented our vision of a next generation cyber-physical defense in the quantum era. In the same way that nobody thinks about system protection making abstraction of the quantum threat, we claim that in the future nobody will think about cyber-physical defense without using quantum resources. When available, adversaries will use quantum resources to support their strategies. Defenders must be equipped as well with the same resources to face quantum adversaries and achieve security beyond breach. ML and quantum computing communities will play very important roles in the design of such resources. This way, the quantum advantage will be granted to defenders rather than solely adversaries. The essence of the war between defenders and adversaries is knowledge. RL can be used by an adversary for the purpose of system identification, an enabler for covert attacks. The paper has clearly demonstrated the plausibility of using quantum technique to search defense strategies and counter adversaries. Furthermore, the design of new defense techniques can leverage quantum ML to speedup decision making and support adaptive control. These benefits of QML will although materialize when the quantum computer will be available. These ideas have been explored in this article, highlighting capabilities and limitations which resolution requires further research.

Acknowledgments — We acknowledge the financial support from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) and the European Commission (H2020 SPARTA project, under grant agreement 830892).
