Amplitude encoding works particularly well for supervised machine learning31, 49. For example, let $\vec { \pmb { { \psi } } } = \left( \psi _ { 0 } , \ldots , \psi _ { 7 } \right)$ be such a unit vector. Amplitude encoding means that the data is encoded in the probability amplitudes of quantum states. Vector $\vec { \psi }$ is mapped to the following three-qubit register

$$| \psi \rangle = \sum_ {i = 0} ^ {7} \psi_ {i} | i \rangle .$$

The term i is one of the eight computational basis members for a three-qubit register. Every feature-vector component ψi becomes the probability amplitude of computational basis member |ii. The value $\psi ^ { 2 }$ corresponds to the probability of measuring the quantum register in state |ii. The summation operation is interpreted as the superposition of the quantum states |ii, $i = 0 , \ldots , 7$ . Superposition means that the quantum state |ψi assumes all the values of i at the same time. In this representation exercise, there is a cost associated with coding the feature vectors in the quantum format, linear in their number. The time complexity of an equivalent classical computing classifier is linear as well. However, in the quantum format the time taken to do classification is data-size independent. The coding overhead, although, makes quantum ML performance comparable classical ML performance. Ideally, data should be directly represented in the quantum format, bypassing the classical to quantum data translation step and enabling gains in performance. Further research in quantum sensing is needed to enable this50.

There are also other RL training alternatives. Dong et al. have developed a quantum RL approach51. In the quantum format, a state $i \in S$ of the MDP is mapped to quantum state |ii. Similarly, an action $j \in A$ is mapped to quantum state | ji. In state i,

the action space is represented by the quantum state

$$\left| A _ {i} \right\rangle = \sum_ {j = 0} ^ {m - 1} \psi_ {i} \left| a _ {j} \right\rangle$$

where the probability amplitudes ψi’s, initially all equal, are modulated, using Grover iteration by the RL procedure. In state i, selecting an action amounts to observing the quantum state |Aii. According to the non-cloning theorem, it can be done just once, which is somewhat limited.

By far, not all QML issues have been resolved. More research on encoding and training is required. Variational circuit optimization experts41 highlight the need for more research to determine what works best, among the available variational circuit designs, versus the type of problem considered.
