In Paris-Princeton Lectures on Mathematical Finance 2013 (pp.
169-201).
Springer, Cham.
Han, B.
and Wong, H.Y.
(2021).
Merton’s portfolio problem under Volterra Heston model.
Finance Research Letters, 39, 101580.

Han, J.
and E, W.
(2016).
Deep learning approximation for stochastic control problems, in Proceedings of NIPS Deep Reinforcement Learning Workshop.
Hur´e, C., Pham, H., Bachouch, A.
and Langren´e, N.
(2021).
Deep neutal networks algortithms for stochastic control problems on finite horizon: convergence analysis.
SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis, 59, 525-557.
Ikonen, S.
and Toivanen, J.
(2004).
Operator splitting methods for American option pricing.
Applied Mathematics Letters, 17, 809-814   
Jaber, E.A.
and El Euch, O.
(2019).
Multi-factor approximation of rough volatility models.
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics, 10, 309-349.
Jaber, E.A.
(2019).
Lifting the Heston model.
Quantitative Finance, 19, 1995-2013.
Kraft, H.
(2005).
Optimal portfolios and Heston’s stochastic volatility model: an explicit solution for power utility.
Quantitative Finance, 5, 303-313.
Lebedev, N.N., (1965).
Special Functions and Their Applications.
Courier Corporation.
Li, Y.T., and Wong, R.
(2013).
Integral and series representations of the Dirac delta function.
Communications on Pure and Applied Analysis, 7, 229-247.
Karatzas, I., Lehoczky, J.P., Shreve, S.E.
and Xu, G.L.
(1991).
Martingale and duality methods for utility maximization in an incomplete market.
SIAM Journal on Control and optimization, 29, 702-730.
Karatzas, I.
and Wang, H.
(2000).
Utility maximization with discretionary stopping.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 39, 306-329.
Ma, J., Li, W.
and Zheng, H.
(2020).
Dual control Monte-Carlo method for tight bounds of value function under Heston stochastic volatility model.
European Journal of Operational Research, 280, 428-440.
Ma, J., Chen, D.
and Lu, Z.
(2022).
Optimal reinsurance-investment with loss aversion under rough Heston model.
To appear in Science China Mathematics.
Merton, R.C., (1969).
Lifetime portfolio selection under uncertainty: The continuous-time case.
Review of Economics and Statistics, 51, 247-257.
Pham, H.
(2009).
Continuous-time stochastic control and optimization with financial applications (Vol.
61).
Springer Science & Business Media.
Tahar, I.B., Soner, H.M.
and Touzi, N.
(2010).
Merton problem with taxes: characterization, computation, and approximation.
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics, 1, 366-395.
Witte, J.H.
and Reisinger, C.
(2011).

A penalty method for the numerical solution of Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equations in finance.
SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis, 49, 213-231.
Yang, N., Chen, N.
and Wan, X.
(2019).
A new delta expansion for multivariate diffusions via the Ito-Taylor expansion.
Journal of Econometrics, 209, 256-288.
Zhang, A.
and Ewald, C.O.
(2010).
Optimal investment for a pension fund under inflation risk.
Mathematical Methods of Operations Research, 71, 353-369.
