# REFERENCES

[1] R.
S.
Sutton and A.
G.
Barto, Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction.
MIT Press, 2018.
[2] D.
P.
Bertsekas, Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control.
Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 2000, vol.
I.
[3] ——, Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control, 3rd ed.
Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 2011, vol.
II.
[4] S.
M.
LaValle, Planning Algorithms.
Cambridge University Press, 2006.
[5] E.
F.
Camacho and C.
B.
Alba, Model Predictive Control.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2013.
[6] P.
Abbeel, A.
Coates, M.
Quigley, and A.
Ng, “An application of reinforcement learning to aerobatic helicopter flight,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
19, 2006.
[7] J.
Biggs and W.
Holderbaum, “Optimal kinematic control of an autonomous underwater vehicle,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
54, no.
7, pp.
1623–1626, 2009.
[8] G.
Zhao and M.
Zhu, “Pareto optimal multirobot motion planning,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
9, pp.
3984–3999, 2021.
[9] L.
Bus¸oniu, R.
Babuˇska, B.
De Schutter, and D.
Ernst, Reinforcement Learning and Dynamic Programming using Function Approximators.
CRC Press, 2017.
[10] R.
Bellman, Dynamic Programming.
Princeton University Press, Princeton, N.
J., 1957.
[11] D.
Mayne, “A second-order gradient method for determining optimal trajectories of non-linear discrete-time systems,” International Journal of Control, vol.
3, no.
1, pp.
85–95, 1966.
[12] D.
H.
Jacobson and D.
Q.
Mayne, Differential Dynamic Programming.
American Elsevier Publishing Company, Inc.
New York., 1970.
[13] D.
Q.
Mayne, “Differential dynamic programming–a unified approach to the optimization of dynamic systems,” in Control and Dynamic Systems.
Elsevier, 1973, vol.
10, pp.
179–254.
[14] D.
Murray and S.
Yakowitz, “Differential dynamic programming and Newton’s method for discrete optimal control problems,” Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, vol.
43, no.
3, pp.
395–414, 1984.
[15] L.-Z.
Liao and C.
A.
Shoemaker, “The proof of quadratic convergence of differential dynamic programming,” Cornell University Operations Research and Industrial Engineering, Tech.
Rep., 1990.
[16] —, “Convergence in unconstrained discrete-time differential dynamic programming,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
36, no.
6, pp.
692–706, 1991.
[17] W.
Li and E.
