De Bruin AM, Van Rossum A, Visser M, Koole G (2007) Modeling the emergency cardiac in-patient flow: an application of queuing theory.
Health Care Management Science 10:125–137.

Durrett R (2019) Probability: Theory and examples, volume 49 (Cambridge university press).
Fomundam S, Herrmann JW (2007) A survey of queuing theory applications in healthcare .
Gans N, Koole G, Mandelbaum A (2003) Telephone call centers: Tutorial, review, and research prospects.
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 5(2):79–141.
Gershwin SB (2018) The future of manufacturing systems engineering.
International Journal of Production Research 56(1-2):224–237.
Gershwin SB, Schick IC (1983) Modeling and analysis of three-stage transfer lines with unreliable machines and finite buffers.
Operations Research 31(2):354–380.
Gopalan A, Mannor S (2015) Thompson sampling for learning parameterized Markov decision processes.
Conference on Learning Theory, 861–898 (PMLR).
Graves TL, Lai TL (1997) Asymptotically efficient adaptive choice of control laws in controlled Markov chains.
SIAM journal on control and optimization 35(3):715–743.
Green LV (2002) How many hospital beds?
INQUIRY: The Journal of Health Care Organization, Provision, and Financing 39(4):400–412.
Harchol-Balter M (2013) Performance modeling and design of computer systems: Queueing theory in action (Cambridge University Press).
Jia H, Shi C, Shen S (2022) Online learning and pricing for service systems with reusable resources.
Operations Research .
Kelly FP (2011) Reversibility and stochastic networks (Cambridge University Press).
Knudsen N (1972) Individual and social optimization in a multiserver queue with a general cost-benefit structure.
Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society 515–528.
Krishnasamy S, Arapostathis A, Johari R, Shakkottai S (2018) On learning the cµ rule in single and parallel server networks.
2018 56th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing (Allerton), 153–154 (IEEE).
Krishnasamy S, Sen R, Johari R, Shakkottai S (2021) Learning unknown service rates in queues: A multiarmed bandit approach.
Operations Research 69(1):315–330.
Kumar PR, Becker A (1982) A new family of optimal adaptive controllers for Markov chains.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 27(1):137–146.
Kumar PR, Lin W (1982) Optimal adaptive controllers for unknown Markov chains.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 27(4):765–774.
Kumar PR, Varaiya P (2015) Stochastic systems: Estimation, identification, and adaptive control (SIAM).
