Similar to pendulum example, we investigate the performance of the methods in reducing total cost. The results of SPDP method with different covariances and different integration schemes are shown in Figs. 2a and 2b. In this case the covariance of SPDP affects the behavior more than in the pendulum experiment. For the first few iterations in Fig. 2a, all methods have a fast cost reduction, fastest being SPDP with $1 0 ^ { - 1 } I$ covariance. For the later iterations, the methods have different speeds of cost reduction. With larger covariances (see SPDP-GH $( 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I )$ and SPDP-GH $( 1 0 ^ { - 3 } I )$ in Fig. 2a), SPDP method is slower in reducing the total cost and does not reach convergence within the 100 iterations shown in the figure. With smaller covariances, SPDP has similar behavior as DDP. What is interesting in this figure is that SPDP-GH $( 1 0 ^ { - 6 } I )$ has better cost reduction compared to DDP during intermediate iterations. The SPDP-GH $( 1 0 ^ { - 1 } I )$ has the fastest cost reduction until the first 6 iterations. After that, there is no improvement. We also observed that the convergence of UDP method was the fastest among all the methods. In Fig. 2b we can see that the integration method has a slight effect on the performance, but the results of SPDPs with different integration rules are practically the same.

TABLE II: Average run times and the number of sigma points of DDP, UDP, and different variations of SPDP methods in cart-pole balancing problem. Here, $m _ { T } , m _ { k }$ denote the number of sigma points in SPDP methods at terminal and $k ^ { t h }$ step.

<table><tr><td>Method</td><td>Average run times (s)</td><td># of sigma points</td></tr><tr><td>DDP</td><td>34.8622</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>UDP</td><td>0.3222</td><td>10</td></tr><tr><td>SPDP-GH (p=3)</td><td>0.0999</td><td> $m_T = 81, m_k = 243$ </td></tr><tr><td>SPDP-UT5</td><td>0.0239</td><td> $m_T = 33, m_k = 51$ </td></tr><tr><td>SPDP-UT7</td><td>0.0758</td><td> $m_T = 97, m_k = 181$ </td></tr></table>

The average run times per iteration to compute the backward pass and forward passes are listed in Table II. As in the pendulum case, the SPDP methods are faster than the other methods, UT5-based method being fastest of them. However, the margin to the UDP method is now smaller as UDP requires a relatively smaller number of sigma points than SPDP methods.
