[15] S.
Oymak and N.
Ozay, “Non-asymptotic identification of LTI systems from a single trajectory,” in Proc.
Am.
Control Conf., Jul.
2019, pp.
5655–5661.
[16] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
65, no.
3, pp.
909–924, Mar.
2020.
[17] H.
J.
van Waarde, J.
Eising, H.
L.
Trentelman, and M.
K.
Camlibel, “Data informativity: A new perspective on data-driven analysis and control,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
65, no.
11, pp.
4753–4768, Nov.
2020.
[18] J.
Berberich, A.
Koch, C.
W.
Scherer, and F.
Allgower, “Robust data- ¨ driven state-feedback design,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf., Jul.
2020, pp.
1532–1538.
[19] H.
J.
van Waarde, M.
K.
Camlibel, and M.
Mesbahi, “From noisy data to feedback controllers: Nonconservative design via a matrix S-lemma,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
67, no.
1, pp.
162–175, Jan.
2022.
[20] J.
G.
Rueda-Escobedo, E.
Fridman, and J.
Schiffer, “Data-driven control for linear discrete-time delay systems,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, Jul.
2021, https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2021.3096896.
[21] J.
Coulson, J.
Lygeros, and F.
Dorfler, “Data-enabled predictive control: In the shallows of the DeePC,” in Proc.
Eur.
Control Conf., Jun.
2019, pp.
307–312.
[22] I.
Markovsky and F.
Dorfler, “Behavioral systems theory in data-driven ¨ analysis, signal processing, and control,” Annu.
Rev.
Control, vol.
52, pp.
42–64, Jan.
2021.
[23] E.
Fridman, “A refined input delay approach to sampled-data control,” Automatica, vol.
46, no.
2, pp.
421–427, Feb.
2010.
[24] J.
Berberich, S.
Wildhagen, M.
Hertneck, and F.
Allgower, “Data- ¨ driven analysis and control of continuous-time systems under aperiodic sampling,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
54, no.
7, pp.
210–215, Jul.
2021.
[25] S.
Wildhagen, J.
Berberich, M.
Hertneck, and F.
Allgower, “Data- ¨ driven analysis and controller design for discrete-time systems under aperiodic sampling,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, pp.
1–16, Jun.
2022, https://doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2022.3183969.
[26] X.
Wang, J.
Sun, J.
Berberich, G.
Wang, F.
Allgower, and J.
Chen, “Data-driven control of dynamic event-triggered systems with delays,” arXiv:2110.12768, 2021.
[27] A.
Seuret, “A novel stability analysis of linear systems under asynchronous samplings,” Automatica, vol.
48, no.
4, pp.
177–182, Jan.
2012.
[28] S.
Wildhagen, J.
Berberich, M.
