To compare the performance between various control architectures, the system is simulated under the influence of 1) a HO-RaCBF/ES-aCLF controller as in (11) with $k _ { d }$ obtained from solving the ES-aCLF QP (18); 2) an ES-aCLF controller as in (18); 3) an “open-loop” HO-RaCBF controller as in (11) with $k _ { d } \equiv 0$ and an initial condition outside the safe set. For each simulation all parameters associated with the learning scheme remain the same as in the previous example. The results the simulations are presented in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5. Although the ES-aCLF controller achieves the stabilization objective (orange curves in Fig. 4), it does so at the cost of violating the safety constraints. In essence, for the ES-aCLF controller to achieve the stabilization objective, it must first allow the pendulum to tip over to collect sufficiently rich data for identifying the dynamics, which, once collected, allows for rapid stabilization to the origin. In contrast, by augmenting the ES-aCLF controller with a HO-RaCBF (blue curves in Fig. 4), the stabilization objective is achieved safely in an exponential fashion. As predicted by Corollary 1, the HO-RaCBF controller is capable of stabilizing the system to the safe set even when starting from an unsafe initial condition (purple curve in Fig. 4). Furthermore, all conservatism associated with the initial parameter uncertainty has essentially been eliminated — once the system is stabilized to the safe set, the HO-RaCBF controller allows the pendulum to lie on the boundary of the safe set without crossing it. Similar to the previous example, the uncertainty in the parameter estimates is exponentially driven to zero (see Fig. 5), implying that after only a few seconds of learning, the HO-RaCBF and ES-aCLF conditions from Def. 3 and Def. 4, respectively, closely approximate the original HOCBF condition from Def. 2 and ES-CLF condition from e.g. [2]–[4].
