[10] T.
Gurriet, M.
Mote, A.
Singletary, P.
Nilsson, E.
Feron, and A.
D.
Ames, “A scalable safety critical control framework for nonlinear systems,” IEEE Access, vol.
8, 2020.
[11] A.
J.
Taylor, A.
Singletary, Y.
Yue, and A.
Ames, “Learning for safetycritical control with control barrier functions,” in Proc.
Conf.
Learning for Dyn.
and Control, vol.
120 of PMLR, pp.
708–717, 2020.
[12] T.
Westenbroek, A.
Agrawal, F.
Castaneda, S.
S.
Sastry, and K.
Sreenath, “Combining model-based design and model-free policy optimization to learn safe, stabilizing controllers,” in Proc.
IFAC Conf.
on Analysis and Design of Hybrid Syst., 2021.
[13] F.
Castaneda, J.
J.
Choi, B.
Zhang, C.
J.
Tomlin, and K.
Sreenath, “Pointwise feasibility of gaussian process-based safety-critical control under model uncertainty,” in Proc.
Conf.
Decis.
Control, pp.
6762– 6769, 2021.
[14] V.
Dhiman, M.
J.
Khojasteh, M.
Franceschetti, and N.
Atanasov, “Control barriers in bayesian learning of system dynamics,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 2021.
[15] M.
Krstic, I.
Kanellakopoulos, and P.
Kokotovi ´ c,´ Nonlinear and adaptive control design.
John Wiley & Sons, 1995.
[16] A.
J.
Taylor and A.
D.
Ames, “Adaptive safety with control barrier functions,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf, pp.
1399–1405, 2020.
[17] W.
Xiao, C.
Belta, and C.
G.
Cassandras, “Adaptive control barrier functions,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 2021.
[18] B.
T.
Lopez, J.
J.
Slotine, and J.
P.
How, “Robust adaptive control barrier functions: An adaptive and data-driven approach to safety,” IEEE Contr.
Syst.
Lett, vol.
5, no.
3, pp.
1031–1036, 2021.
[19] A.
Isaly, O.
S.
Patil, R.
G.
Sanfelice, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Adaptive safety with multiple barrier functions using integral concurrent learning,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf, pp.
3719 – 3724, 2021.
[20] M.
Maghenem, A.
J.
Taylor, A.
D.
Ames, and R.
G.
Sanfelice, “Adaptive safety using control barrier functions and hybrid adaptation,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf, pp.
2418–2423, 2021.
[21] G.
Chowdhary, Concurrent learning for convergence in adaptive control without persistency of excitation.
PhD thesis, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, 2010.
[22] A.
Parikh, R.
Kamalapurkar, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Integral concurrent learning: Adaptive control with parameter convergence using finite excitation,” Int.
J.
Adapt.
Control Signal Process., vol.
33, no.
12, pp.
1775–1787, 2019.
[23] V.
Azimi and P.
A.
