Vela, “Robust adaptive quadratic programming and safety performance of nonlinear systems with unstructured uncertainties,” in Proc.
Conf.
Decis.
Control, pp.
5536–5543, 2018.
[24] V.
Azimi, Control and Safety of Fully Actuated and Underactuated Nonlinear Systems: From Adaptation to Robustness to Optimality.
PhD thesis, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2020.
[25] S.
Kolathaya and A.
D.
Ames, “Input-to-state safety with control barrier functions,” IEEE Contr.
Syst.
Lett, vol.
3, no.
1, pp.
108–113, 2019.
[26] Q.
Nguyen and K.
Sreenath, “Exponential control barrier functions for enforcing high relative-degree safety-critical constraints,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf, pp.
322–328, 2016.
[27] W.
Xiao and C.
Belta, “Control barrier functions for systems with high relative degree,” in Proc.
Conf.
Decis.
Control, pp.
474–479, 2019.
[28] W.
Xiao and C.
Belta, “High order control barrier functions,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 2021.
[29] X.
Tan, W.
S.
Cortez, and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “High-order barrier functions: robustness, safety and performance-critical control,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 2021.
[30] X.
Xu, P.
Tabuada, J.
W.
Grizzle, and A.
D.
Ames, “Robustness of control barrier functions for safety critical control,” in Proc.
IFAC Conf.
on Analysis and Design of Hybrid Syst., pp.
54–61, 2015.
[31] H.
K.
Khalil, Nonlinear Systems.
Prentice Hall, 3 ed., 2002.
[32] G.
Chowdhary and E.
Johnson, “A singular value maximizing data recording algorithm for concurrent learning,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf, pp.
3547–3552, 2011.
[33] L.
Lindemann and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “Control barrier functions for signal temporal logic tasks,” IEEE Contr.
Syst.
Lett, vol.
3, no.
1, pp.
96–101, 2019.
[34] P.
Glotfelter, J.
Cortes, and M.
Egerstedt, “Nonsmooth barrier func- ´ tions with applications to multi-robot systems,” IEEE Contr.
Syst.
Lett, vol.
1, no.
2, pp.
310–315, 2017.
