# REFERENCES

[1] D.
Zhang, P.
Shi, Q.-G.
Wang, and L.
Yu, “Analysis and synthesis of networked control systems: A survey of recent advances and challenges,” ISA transactions, vol.
66, pp.
376–392, 2017.
[2] M.
S.
Mahmoud and M.
M.
Hamdan, “Fundamental issues in networked control systems,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
5, no.
5, pp.
902–922, 2018.
[3] X.-M.
Zhang, Q.-L.
Han, X.
Ge, D.
Ding, L.
Ding, D.
Yue, and C.
Peng, “Networked control systems: A survey of trends and techniques,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
7, no.
1, pp.
1–17, 2020.
[4] V.
Paxson and S.
Floyd, “Wide area traffic: The failure of Poisson modeling,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol.
3, no.
3, pp.
226–244, 1995.
[5] L.
Hetel, C.
Fiter, H.
Omran, A.
Seuret, E.
Fridman, J.-P.
Richard, and S.
I.
Niculescu, “Recent developments on the stability of systems with aperiodic sampling: An overview,” Automatica, vol.
76, no.
2, pp.
309–335, 2017.
[6] R.
Anderson and M.
Spong, “Bilateral control of teleoperators with time delay,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
34, no.
5, pp.
494–501, 1989.
[7] L.
A.
Montestruque and P.
Antsaklis, “Stability of model-based networked control systems with time-varying transmission times,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
49, no.
9, pp.
1562–1572, 2004.
[8] D.
J.
Antunes, J.
P.
Hespanha, and C.
J.
Silvestre, “Volterra integral approach to impulsive renewal systems: Application to networked control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
57, no.
3, pp.
607–619, 2012.
[9] L.
Zhang, Y.
Shi, T.
Chen, and B.
Huang, “A new method for stabilization of networked control systems with random delays,” IEEE Transactions on automatic control, vol.
50, no.
8, pp.
1177–1181, 2005.
[10] Y.
Shi and B.
Yu, “Output feedback stabilization of networked control systems with random delays modeled by Markov chains,” IEEE transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
54, no.
7, pp.
1668–1674, 2009.
[11] Y.
Hosoe and T.
Hagiwara, “Equivalent stability notions, Lyapunov inequality, and its application in discrete-time linear systems with stochastic dynamics determined by an i.i.d.
process,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
11, pp.
4764–4771, 2019.
[12] , “On second-moment stability of discrete-time linear systems with general stochastic dynamics,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
2, pp.
795–809, 2022.
[13] Y.
Hosoe, D.
Peaucelle, and T.

Hagiwara, “Linearization of expectation-based inequality conditions in control for discrete-time linear systems represented with random polytopes,” Automatica, vol.
122, p.
109228, 2020.
[14] J.
L ¨ofberg, “YALMIP: A toolbox for modeling and optimization in MATLAB,” in Proc.
2004 IEEE International Symposium on Computer Aided Control Systems Design, 2004, pp.
284–289.
[15] R.
H.
T ¨ut ¨unc¨u, K.
C.
Toh, and M.
J.
Todd, “Solving semidefinitequadratic-linear programs using SDPT3,” Mathematical Programming Series B, vol.
95, no.
2, pp.
189–217, 2003.
