# REFERENCES

[1] J.
L.
Crassidis and J.
L.
Junkins, Optimal estimation of dynamic systems.
Chapman and Hall/CRC, 2004.
[2] Z.
Zhou, J.
Wu, Y.
Li, C.
Fu, and H.
Fourati, “Critical issues on kalman filter with colored and correlated system noises,” Asian Journal of Control, vol.
19, no.
6, pp.
1905–1919, 2017.
[3] A.
Bryson and D.
Johansen, “Linear filtering for time-varying systems using measurements containing colored noise,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
10, no.
1, pp.
4–10, 1965.
[4] A.
Bryson Jr and L.
Henrikson, “Estimation using sampled data containing sequentially correlated noise.” Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets, vol.
5, no.
6, pp.
662–665, 1968.
[5] K.
J.
Friston, N.
Trujillo-Barreto, and J.
Daunizeau, “Dem: a variational treatment of dynamic systems,” Neuroimage, vol.
41, no.
3, pp.
849–885, 2008.
[6] K.
Friston, “The free-energy principle: a unified brain theory?” Nature reviews neuroscience, vol.
11, no.
2, pp.
127–138, 2010.
[7] A.
A.
Meera and M.
Wisse, “Free energy principle based state and input observer design for linear systems with colored noise,” in 2020 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
5052–5058.
[8] F.
Bos, A.
A.
Meera, D.
Benders, and M.
Wisse, “Free energy principle for state and input estimation of a quadcopter flying in wind,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.12052, 2021.
[9] K.
Friston, “The free-energy principle: a rough guide to the brain?” Trends in cognitive sciences, vol.
13, no.
7, pp.
293–301, 2009.
[10] K.
J.
Friston, J.
Daunizeau, J.
Kilner, and S.
J.
Kiebel, “Action and behavior: a free-energy formulation,” Biological cybernetics, vol.
102, no.
3, pp.
227–260, 2010.
[11] R.
L.
Carhart-Harris and K.
J.
Friston, “The default-mode, egofunctions and free-energy: a neurobiological account of freudian ideas,” Brain, vol.
133, no.
4, pp.
1265–1283, 2010.
[12] K.
Friston, K.
Stephan, B.
Li, and J.
Daunizeau, “Generalised filtering,” Mathematical Problems in Engineering, vol.
2010, 2010.
[13] B.
Li, J.
Daunizeau, K.
E.
Stephan, W.
Penny, D.
Hu, and K.
Friston, “Generalised filtering and stochastic dcm for fmri,” neuroimage, vol.
58, no.
2, pp.
442–457, 2011.
[14] J.-J.
Xiong and E.-H.
Zheng, “Optimal kalman filter for state estimation of a quadrotor uav,” Optik, vol.
126, no.
21, pp.
2862–2868, 2015.
[15] P.
Lanillos, C.
Meo, C.
Pezzato, A.
A.
Meera, M.
Baioumy, W.
Ohata, A.
Tschantz, B.
Millidge, M.
Wisse, C.
L.
