# References

[1] S.-L. Dai, H. Lin, and S. S. Ge, Scheduling-and-control codesign for a collection of networked control systems with uncertain delays, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 18 (2010), pp. 66–78.   
[2] A. Kundu and D. E. Quevedo, Stabilizing scheduling policies for networked control systems, IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, 7 (2020), pp. 163–175.   
[3] A. Kundu and D. E. Quevedo, Design of periodic scheduling and control for networked systems under random data loss, IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, (2021). 8 (4), 1788-1798.   
[4] D. Liberzon, Switching in systems and control, Systems & Control: Foundations & Applications, Birkhäuser Boston Inc., Boston, MA, 2003.   
[5] K. Liu, E. Fridman, and K. H. Johansson, Networked control with stochastic scheduling, IEEE Trans. Automat. Control, 60 (2015), pp. 3071–3076.   
[6] H. Rehbinder and M. Sanfridson, Scheduling of a limited communication channel for optimal control, Automatica, 40 (2004), p. 491?500.   
[7] G. C. Walsh and H. Ye, Scheduling of networked control systems, IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 21 (2001), pp. 57–65.   
[8] G. C. Walsh, H. Ye, and L. G. Bushnell, Stability analysis of networked control systems, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 10 (2002), pp. 438–446.

[9] L. Zhang and E.-K. Boukas, Stability and stabilization of Markovian jump linear systems with partly unknown transition probabilities, Automatica J. IFAC, 45 (2009), pp. 463–468.
