Example 5. The other switching topologies and their union graph are shown in Figure 4 where (c) is an union graph of (a) and (b). The coefficient matrix of the system is the same as the choice in Example 2, and the weight matrix is

$$
\mathcal {A} _ {1 2} = \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 2 \\ 2 & 1 \end{array} \right).
$$

Agent 1 is chosen as the leader. For graphs in Fig. 3(a) and Fig. 3(b), there are

$$
L _ {3 a} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & 0 \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 \end{array} \right]

L _ {3 b} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & 0 & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} \\ 0 & 0 & 0 \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & 0 & \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} \end{array} \right].
$$

After calculation, $\dim ( C ) = 6 .$ . The system is controllable, but the union graph is uncontrollable. This example shows that the controllability of the system needs to be discussed separately when the union graph is uncontrollable.

Example 6. The case of subgraph including nontrivial cell is shown in Figure 5, where (a), (b) are subgraphs and (c) is the union graph. The coefficient matrix of the system is selected as Example 2, and the weight matrices are as follows

$$
\mathcal {A} _ {1 2} = \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} = \mathcal {A} _ {2 3} = \left( \begin{array}{l l} 1 & 2 \\ 2 & 1 \end{array} \right).
$$

Agent 1 is chosen as leader, and for Figure 3(a) and 3(b)

$$
L _ {4 a} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} {\mathcal {A} _ {1 2} + \mathcal {A} _ {1 3}} & {- \mathcal {A} _ {1 2}} & {- \mathcal {A} _ {1 3}} \\ {- \mathcal {A} _ {1 2}} & {\mathcal {A} _ {1 2}} & 0 \\ {- \mathcal {A} _ {1 3}} & 0 & {\mathcal {A} _ {1 3}} \end{array} \right]

L _ {4 b} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c} 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & \mathcal {A} _ {2 3} & - \mathcal {A} _ {2 3} \\ 0 & - \mathcal {A} _ {2 3} & \mathcal {A} _ {2 3} \end{array} \right].
$$

After calculation, dim() = 4, the system is uncontrollable, and the union graph is uncontrollable too. Theorem 5 is verified.

Example 7. As showing in Figure 6, we choose node 1 as the output point and the coefficient matrix and weight matrix of the system are as Example 2. After calculation, 𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘 $( \tilde { L } ^ { T } , \tilde { M } ) = 6$ , The system (6) is uncontrollable, so system (5) is unobservable. Theorem 6 is verified.
