# REFERENCES

[1] J. Qin, H. Gao, and W. X. Zheng, “Second-order consensus for multiagent systems with switching topology and communication delay,” Systems & Control Letters, vol. 60, no. 6, pp. 390–397, 2011.   
[2] Y. Xie and Z. Lin, “Global optimal consensus for multi-agent systems with bounded controls,” Systems & Control Letters, vol. 102, pp. 104– 111, 2017.   
[3] X. Wang and Y. Hong, “Finite-time consensus for multi-agent networks with second-order agent dynamics,” IFAC Proceedings volumes, vol. 41, no. 2, pp. 15 185–15 190, 2008.   
[4] Z. Meng, Z. Zhao, and Z. Lin, “On global leader-following consensus of identical linear dynamic systems subject to actuator saturation,” Systems & Control Letters, vol. 62, no. 2, pp. 132–142, 2013.   
[5] Q. Wang and H. Gao, “Global consensus of multiple integrator agents via saturated controls,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 350, no. 8, pp. 2261–2276, 2013.   
[6] W. Ren and Y. Cao, Distributed Coordination of Multi-agent Networks, 1st ed. London: Springer-Verlag, 2011, ch. 1,6.   
[7] A. Amirkhani and A. H. Barshooi, “Consensus in multi-agent systems: a review,” Artificial Intelligence Review, pp. 1–39, 2021.   
[8] F. Liu, A. S. Morse, and B. D. Anderson, “Robust control of undirected rigid formations with constant measurement bias in relative positions,” in 2016 American Control Conference (ACC). IEEE, 2016, pp. 143–147.   
[9] Z. Meng, B. D. Anderson, and S. Hirche, “Formation control with mismatched compasses,” Automatica, vol. 69, pp. 232–241, 2016.   
[10] H. G. De Marina, M. Cao, and B. Jayawardhana, “Controlling rigid formations of mobile agents under inconsistent measurements,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 31–39, 2014.   
[11] J. Thienel and R. M. Sanner, “A coupled nonlinear spacecraft attitude controller and observer with an unknown constant gyro bias and gyro noise,” IEEE transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 48, no. 11, pp. 2011–2015, 2003.   
[12] J. Boskovic, S.-M. Li, and R. Mehra, “A globally stable scheme for spacecraft control in the presence of sensor bias,” in 2000 IEEE Aerospace Conference. Proceedings (Cat. No. 00TH8484), vol. 3. IEEE, 2000, pp. 505–511.   
[13] N. Metni, J.-M. Pflimlin, T. Hamel, and P. Soueres, “Attitude and gyro bias estimation for a flying uav,” in 2005 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. IEEE, 2005, pp. 1114– 1120.
