# 8. Conclusion

In this paper, the controllability and observability of linear multi-agent systems over matrix-weighted signed networks were analyzed. Firstly, the definition of equitable partition of the matrix-weighted signed multi-agent system was given, and the upper bound of controllable subspace and a necessary condition of controllability were obtained by combining the restriction conditions of coefficient matrix and matrix weight for the case of fixed and switching topologies, respectively. The influence of different selection methods of coefficient matrices on the results was discussed. In particular, the equivalence of the controllability results based on equitable partition for first-order integrator systems and general linear systems under appropriate input matrix selection(it called complete control input) conditions was discussed. Secondly, for the case of heterogeneous systems, the upper bound of controllable subspace and the necessary condition of controllability were obtained when the dynamics of individuals in the same cell are the same. Thirdly, sufficient conditions for controllable and uncontrollable union graphs were obtained by taking advantage of the concept of switched systems and equitable partitions, respectively. Finally, a necessary condition of observability was obtained in terms of dual system and the constraints of the coefficient matrix, and the relationship between the observability and the controllability of the matrix-weighted signed multi-agent systems was discussed. For future work, we are interested in discussing the case that the weight matrix is asymmetric or other forms of weight (such as vector weight), to further improve the relevant results proposed in this paper.
