Ji, M., Egerstedt, M., 2007.
A graph-theoretic characterization of controllability for multi-agent systems, in: 2007 American Control Conference, IEEE.
pp.
4588–4593.
Ji, Z., Lin, H., Cao, S., Qi, Q., Ma, H., 2021.
The complexity in complete graphic characterizations of multiagent controllability.
IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics 51, 64–76.
Ji, Z., Wang, Z., Lin, H., Wang, Z., 2010.
Controllability of multi-agent systems with time-delay in state and switching topology.
International Journal of Control 83, 371–386.
Kalman, R.E., 1963.
Mathematical description of linear dynamical systems.
Journal of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Series A: Control 1, 152–192.
Liu, B., Shen, X., Wu, L., Su, H., 2020.
Observability of leader-based discrete-time multi-agent systems with switching topology.
IET Control Theory & Applications 14, 2462–2471.
Liu, B., Su, H., Wu, L., Shen, X., 2020.
Observability of leader-based discrete-time multi-agent systems over signed networks.
IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering , 1–1doi:10.1109/TNSE.2020.3024185.
Liu, B., Xu, N., Su, H., Wu, L., Bai, J., 2019.
On the observability of leader-based multiagent systems with fixed topology.
Complexity 2019.
Liu, K., Ji, Z., Zhang, X., 2020a.
Periodic event-triggered consensus of multi-agent systems under directed topology.
Neurocomputing 385, 33–41.
Liu, S., Ji, Z., Ma, H., 2020b.
Jordan form-based algebraic conditions for controllability of multiagent systems under directed graphs.
Complexity 2020.
Liu, Y.Y., Slotine, J.J., Barabási, A.L., 2011.
Controllability of complex networks.
nature 473, 167–173.
Lou, Y., Ji, Z., Qu, J., 2020.
New results of multi-agent controllability under equitable partitions.
IEEE Access 8, 73523–73535.
Lu, Z., Ji, Z., Zhang, Z., 2020.
Sampled-data based structural controllability of multi-agent systems with switching topology.
Journal of the Franklin Institute 357, 10886–10899.
Martini, S., Egerstedt, M., Bicchi, A., 2010.
Controllability analysis of multi-agent systems using relaxed equitable partitions.
International Journal of Systems, Control and Communications 2, 100–121.
O’Clery, N., Yuan, Y., Stan, G.B., Barahona, M., 2013.
Observability and coarse graining of consensus dynamics through the external equitable partition.
Physical Review E Statistical Nonlinear & Soft Matter Physics 88, 042805.
