Sun, “Distributed cooperative adaptive identification and control for a group of continuous-time systems with a cooperative pe condition via consensus,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
59, no.
1, pp.
91–106, 2013.
[26] H.
Dong, Q.
Hu, and M.
R.
Akella, “Composite adaptive control for robot manipulator systems,” 5th CEAS Conference on Guidance, Navigation and Control, 2019.
[27] S.
B.
Roy, S.
Bhasin, and I.
N.
Kar, “Composite adaptive control of uncertain euler-lagrange systems with parameter convergence without pe condition,” Asian Journal of Control, vol.
21, no.
6, p.
2137–2149, November 2009.
[28] T.
Garg and S.
B.
Roy, “Distributed composite adaptive synchronization of multiple uncertain euler-lagrange systems using cooperative initial excitation,” in 2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
5816–5821.
[29] G.
Chowdhary, T.
Yucelen, M.
Muhlegg, and E.
N.
Johnson, “Concurrent ¨ learning adaptive control of linear systems with exponentially convergent bounds,” International Journal of Adaptive Control and Signal Processing, vol.
27, no.
4, pp.
280–301, 2013.
[Online].
Available: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/acs.2297   
[30] S.
Djaidja, Q.
H.
Wu, , and H.
Fang, “Leader-following consensus of double-integrator multi-agent systems with noisy measurements,” International Journal of Control, Automation, and Systems, vol.
13, no.
1, pp.
17–24, February 2015.
[31] D.
B.
Kingston, W.
Ren, and R.
W.
Beard, “Consensus algorithms are input-to-state stable,” in Proceedings of the 2005, American Control Conference, 2005.
IEEE, 2005, pp.
1686–1690.
[32] A.
Garulli and A.
Giannitrapani, “Analysis of consensus protocols with bounded measurement errors,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
60, no.
1, pp.
44–52, 2011.
[33] M.
Shi, P.
Tesi, and C.
De Persis, “Self-triggered network coordination over noisy communication channels,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
1, pp.
263–270, 2019.
[34] D.
Tandon and S.
Sukumar, “Rigid body consensus under relative measurement bias,” AAS Spaceflight Mechanics meeting, San Antonio, TX, USA, February 2017.
[35] S.
Sukumar, E.
Panteley, A.
Lorıa, and W.
Pasillas, “On consensus of double integrators over directed graphs and with relative measurement bias,” 2018 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 17-19 Dec 2018.
