Leibold.
Combined¨ robust and stochastic model predictive control for models of different granularity, 2020.
arXiv: 2003.06652.
[17] S.
Nair, V.
Govindarajan, T.
Lin, C.
Meissen, H.E.
Tseng, and F.
Borrelli.
Stochastic mpc with multi-modal predictions for traffic intersections, 2021.
arXiv: 2109.09792.
[18] T.
Brudigam, M.
Olbrich, D.
Wollherr, and M.
Leibold.
Stochastic ¨ model predictive control with a safety guarantee for automated driving.
IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, pages 1–1, 2021.
[19] J.
Zeng, B.
Zhang, and K.
Sreenath.
Safety-critical model predictive control with discrete-time control barrier function.
In 2021 American Control Conference (ACC), 2021.
[20] A.
Grandia, A.
Taylor, A.D.
Ames, and M.
Hutter.
Multi-layered safety for legged robots via control barrier functions and model predictive control.
In IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2021.
[21] T.
Brudigam, V.
Gaßmann, D.
Wollherr, and M.
Leibold.
Minimization ¨ of constraint violation probability in model predictive control.
Int.
Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 31(14):6740–6772, 2021.
[22] K.P.
Wabersich and M.N.
Zeilinger.
A predictive safety filter for learning-based control of constrained nonlinear dynamical systems.
Automatica, 129:109597, 2021.
[23] K.P.
Wabersich, L.
Hewing, A.
Carron, and M.N.
Zeilinger.
Probabilistic model predictive safety certification for learning-based control.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pages 1–1, 2021.
[24] B.
Schurmann, N.
Kochdumper, and M.
Althoff.
Reachset model ¨ predictive control for disturbed nonlinear systems.
In 2018 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 3463–3470, 2018.
[25] H.K.
Khalil.
Nonlinear Systems.
Pearson Education.
Prentice Hall, 2002.
[26] M.
Herceg, M.
Kvasnica, C.N.
Jones, and M.
Morari.
Multi-Parametric Toolbox 3.0.
In Proc.
of the European Control Conference, pages 502– 510, Zurich, Switzerland, July 17–19 2013.
¨   
[27] L.
Grune and J.
Pannek.
¨ Nonlinear Model Predictive Control.
Springer-Verlag, London, 2017.

[28] D. Mayne and W. Langson. Robustifying model predictive control of constrained linear systems. Electronics Letters, 37:1422–1423, 2001.
