Buckley et al., “Active inference in robotics and artificial agents: Survey and challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.01871, 2021.
[16] G.
Oliver, P.
Lanillos, and G.
Cheng, “Active inference body perception and action for humanoid robots,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.03022, 2019.
[17] M.
Baioumy, P.
Duckworth, B.
Lacerda, and N.
Hawes, “Active inference for integrated state-estimation, control, and learning,” in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
4665–4671.
[18] A.
A.
Meera and M.
Wisse, “A brain inspired learning algorithm for the perception of a quadrotor in wind,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.11971, 2021.

[19] O. C¸ atal, T. Verbelen, T. Van de Maele, B. Dhoedt, and A. Safron, “Robot navigation as hierarchical active inference,” Neural Networks, vol. 142, pp. 192–204, 2021.   
[20] M. Baltieri and C. L. Buckley, “Pid control as a process of active inference with linear generative models,” Entropy, vol. 21, no. 3, p. 257, 2019.   
[21] M. Baltieri and T. Isomura, “Kalman filters as the steady-state solution of gradient descent on variational free energy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.10530, 2021.   
[22] C. L. Buckley, C. S. Kim, S. McGregor, and A. K. Seth, “The free energy principle for action and perception: A mathematical review,” Journal of Mathematical Psychology, vol. 81, pp. 55–79, 2017.   
[23] K. Friston, J. Mattout, N. Trujillo-Barreto, J. Ashburner, and W. Penny, “Variational free energy and the laplace approximation,” Neuroimage, vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 220–234, 2007.   
[24] A. Anil Meera and M. Wisse, “Dynamic expectation maximization algorithm for estimation of linear systems with colored noise,” Entropy, vol. 23, no. 10, p. 1306, 2021.
