Markovsky and F.
D ¨orfler, “Identifiability in the behavioral setting,” Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Tech.
Rep, 2020.
[Online].
Available: http://homepages.vub.ac.be/∼imarkovs/publications/identifiability.pdf.
[25] W.
M.
Boothby, An introduction to differentiable manifolds and Riemannian geometry (2nd Edition).
London, U.
K.: Academic Press, 1986.
[26] N.
L.
Carothers, Real analysis.
Cambridge, U.
K.: Cambridge Univ.
Press, 2000.
[27] T.
Kato, Perturbation theory for linear operators (2nd Edition).
New York, NY, USA: Springer, 1980.
[28] G.
Stewart and J.
Sun, Matrix Perturbation Theory.
New York, NY, USA: Academic Press, 1990.
[29] G.
H.
Golub and C.
F.
Van Loan, Matrix computations (4th Ed.).
Baltimore, MD, USA: Johns Hopkins Univ.
Press, 2013.
[30] K.
Ye and L.
H.
Lim, “Schubert varieties and distances between subspaces of different dimensions,” SIAM J.
Mat.
Anal.
Appl., vol.
37, no.
3, pp.
1176–1197, 2016.
[31] L.
Qui and E.
J.
Davison, “Pointwise gap metrics on transfer matrices,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
37, no.
6, pp.
741–758, 1992.
[32] T.
Koenings, M.
Krueger, H.
Luo, and S.
X.
Ding, “A data-driven computation method for the gap metric and the optimal stability margin,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
63, no.
3, pp.
805–810, 2017.
[33] Z.
Du, L.
Balzano, and N.
Ozay, “A robust algorithm for online switched system identification,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
51, no.
15, pp.
293–298, 2018.
[34] M.
M.
Deza and E.
Deza, Encyclopedia of distances.
New York, NY, USA: Springer, 2009.
[35] P.
A.
Absil, R.
Mahony, and R.
Sepulchre, Optimization algorithms on matrix manifolds.
Princeton, NJ, USA: Princeton Univ.
Press, 2009.
[36] Y.
Hong, R.
Kwitt, N.
Singh, B.
Davis, N.
Vasconcelos, and M.
Niethammer, “Geodesic regression on the grassmannian,” in Eur.
Conf.
Comp.
Vision.
Springer, 2014, pp.
632–646.

[37] J. C. Willems, The analysis of feedback systems. London, U. K.: MIT Press, 1971.   
[38] J. R. Munkres, Topology (2nd Edition). Upper Saddle River, NJ, USA: Prentice Hall, 2000.
