[14] P.
Patre and S.
M.
Joshi, “Accommodating sensor bias in mrac for state tracking,” AIAA Guidance, Navigation, and Control Conference, 2011.
[15] G.
Troni and L.
L.
Whitcomb, “Adaptive estimation of measurement bias in three-dimensional field sensors with angular rate sensors: Theory and comparative experimental evaluation.” in Robotics: Science and Systems.
Citeseer, 2013.
[16] N.
Liu, R.
Ling, Q.
Huang, and Z.
Zhu, “Second-order super-twisting sliding mode control for finite-time leader-follower consensus with uncertain nonlinear multiagent systems,” Hindawi Publishing Corporation Mathematical Problems in Engineering, vol.
2015, 2015.
[17] J.
Qin, G.
Zhang, W.
X.
Zheng, and Y.
Kang, “Adaptive sliding mode consensus tracking for second-order nonlinear multiagent systems with actuator faults,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
45, no.
5, pp.
1605 – 1615, May 2019.
[18] L.
Mo, T.
Pan, S.
Guo, and Y.
Niu, “Distributed coordination control of first- and second-order multiagent systems with external disturbances,” Hindawi Publishing Corporation Mathematical Problems in Engineering, vol.
2015, 2015.
[19] X.
Wang and S.
Li, “Nonlinear consensus algorithms for second-order multi-agent systems with mismatched disturbances,” 2015 American Control Conference (ACC), pp.
1740–1745, July 2015.
[20] H.
Garcia de Marina, M.
Cao, and B.
Jayawardhana, “Controlling rigid formations of mobile agents under inconsistent measurements,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
31, no.
1, pp.
31–39, 2015.
[21] K.
S.
Narendra and A.
M.
Annaswamy, Stable adaptive systems.
Courier Corporation, 2012.
[22] S.
Boyd and S.
Sastry, “On parameter convergence in adaptive control,” Systems & control letters, vol.
3, no.
6, pp.
311–319, 1983.
[23] M.
N.
Mahyuddin, G.
Herrmann, J.
Na, and F.
L.
Lewis, “Finitetime adaptive distributed control for double integrator leader-agent synchronisation,” in 2012 IEEE international symposium on intelligent control.
IEEE, 2012, pp.
714–720.
[24] J.
Sun and Z.
Geng, “Adaptive consensus tracking for linear multiagent systems with heterogeneous unknown nonlinear dynamics,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
26, no.
1, pp.
154–173, 2016.
[25] W.
Chen, C.
Wen, S.
Hua, and C.
