[36] H. Sinhmar and S. Sukumar, “Distributed model independent algorithm for spacecraft synchronization under relative measurement bias,” 5th CEAS Conference on Guidance, Navigation and Control, 2019.   
[37] M. Shi, C. De Persis, P. Tesi, and N. Monshizadeh, “Bias estimation in sensor networks,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 1534–1546, 2020.   
[38] B. D. O. Anderson, G. Shi, and J. Trumpf, “Convergence and state reconstruction of time-varying multi-agent systems from complete observability theory,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 62, no. 5, pp. 2519–2523, 2017.   
[39] A. S. Asratian, T. M. J. Denley, and R. Haggkvist, ¨ Bipartite Graphs and their Applications, ser. Cambridge Tracts in Mathematics. Cambridge University Press, 1998.   
[40] D. Cvetkovic, P. Rowlinson, and S. K. Simi ´ c, “Signless laplacians of ´ finite graphs,” Linear Algebra and its Applications, vol. 423, no. 1, pp. 155 – 171, 2007, special Issue devoted to papers presented at the Aveiro Workshop on Graph Spectra. [Online]. Available: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024379507000316   
[41] N. R. Chowdhury, S. Sukumar, M. Maghenem, and A. Lor´ıa, “On the estimation of the consensus rate of convergence in graphs with persistent interconnections,” International Journal of Control, vol. 91, no. 1, pp. 132–144, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1080/00207179.2016.1272006   
[42] S. B. Roy, “Relaxing persistence of excitation for parameter convergence in adaptive control: an initial excitation based approach,” Ph.D. dissertation, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, 2019.   
[43] D. S. Bernstein, Matrix Mathematics: Theory, Facts, and Formulas (Second Edition). Princeton University Press, 2009.   
[44] K. Sridhar and S. Sukumar, “Finite-time, event-triggered tracking control of quadrotors,” in 5th CEAS Specialist Conference on Guidance, Navigation & Control (EurGNC 19) Milano, Italy, April 2019.
