$$
L = \left( \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} + \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & 0 \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} - \mathcal {A} _ {2 4} & 0 & - \mathcal {A} _ {2 4} \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & 0 & \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} - \mathcal {A} _ {3 4} & - \mathcal {A} _ {3 4} \\ 0 & - \mathcal {A} _ {2 4} & - \mathcal {A} _ {3 4} & - \mathcal {A} _ {2 4} - \mathcal {A} _ {3 4} \end{array} \right).
$$

After calculation, $r a n k ( \tilde { L } , \tilde { M } ) = 6$ . The system is uncontrollable. Theorem 1 is verified.

Example 3. The switching topology is shown in Figure 2. The coefficient matrix of the system is the same as the choice in Example 2, and the weights of the selected matrix are as follows

$$
\mathcal {A} _ {1 2} = \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} = \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 2 \\ 2 & 1 \end{array} \right).
$$

Agent 1 is chosen as the leader. Then, by definition, the nodes can be divided into two cells $\pi = \{ \{ 1 \} , \{ 2 , 3 , 4 \} \}$ for (a). For Fig. 2(b), the nodes can be divided into three cells $\pi = \{ \{ 1 \} , \{ 2 , 3 \} , \{ 4 \} \}$ for (b).

$$
L _ {a} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} + \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} + \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & 0 & 0 \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & 0 & \mathcal {A} _ {1 3} & 0 \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} & 0 & 0 & \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} \end{array} \right]

L _ {b} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} + \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & 0 & - \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & \mathcal {A} _ {1 2} & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ - \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} & 0 & 0 & \mathcal {A} _ {1 4} \end{array} \right].
$$

According to Theorem 2, the upper bound of the sequence of controllable subspaces is 4. After calculation, $\mathrm { d i m } ( C ) = 4$ too. Thus Theorem 2 is verified.

Example 4. As showing in Figure 3, the coefficient matrix of the system is selected as

$$
A _ {1} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{array} \right), A _ {2} = A _ {2} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 2 & 1 \\ 1 & 2 \end{array} \right), A _ {3} = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 2 \\ 2 & 1 \end{array} \right).
$$

the other coefficient matrix and weight matrix of the system are as Example 2. After calculation, 𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘( $\tilde { L } ^ { \prime } , \tilde { M } ) = 6$ , The system (3) is uncontrollable. Theorem 3 is verified.
