The motor torque $u _ { t } \in \mathbb { R }$ , multiplied by a gear ratio of four, serves as the control input, while the angle $\tilde { \varphi } _ { t }$ and the angular velocity $\dot { \tilde { \varphi } } _ { t }$ of the club head form the robot’s model state $\tilde { { \mathbf { \Gamma } } } \tilde { { \mathbf { \Gamma } } } \tilde { { \mathbf { \Gamma } } } = [ \tilde { \varphi } _ { t } , \tilde { \tilde { \varphi } } _ { t } ] \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ . The friction term $M _ { F , t }$ models the partial dynamics resulting from static and sliding friction, while the parameters $\breve { \pmb { p } } = [ m , a , J , d , r , \mu ] ^ { T } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 }$ shown in Fig. 4b have been estimated using particle swarm optimization, c.f. Kennedy and Eberhart (1995).

Training is carried out by the same procedure outlined in the previous section. In addition to the performed steps mentioned, the golf robot’s measurements need further treatment. Since the chosen approach requires full information of state and state derivative for training and only the club’s angle $\varphi _ { t }$ can be measured directly, the angular velocity $\dot { \varphi } _ { t }$ as well as the angular acceleration $\ddot { \varphi } _ { t }$ need to be approximated. In a classical approach, these nonmeasurable state variables are estimated using a modelbased observer, provided a sufficiently accurate system model is available. Since adequate model accuracy cannot be guaranteed here, numerical differentiation is used instead. As data for training, validation, and testing, measurement data for sinusoidal, step, and chirp excitations is captured. Again, a physics-based restriction guaranteeing physical plausibility (11) is used with the MOPGRNN. Note that the enforced energy balance for the golf robot is based on the parameters of the physics-based model and is given by

$$\Delta E _ {\mathcal {M}, t} = J \ddot {\varphi} _ {t} \dot {\varphi} _ {t} + m g a \dot {\varphi} _ {t} \sin \hat {\varphi} _ {t} + d \dot {\varphi} _ {t} ^ {2} + M _ {F, t} \dot {\varphi} _ {t} - 4 \dot {\varphi} _ {t} u _ {t}. \tag {16}$$
