# REFERENCES

Antonelo, E.A., Camponogara, E., Seman, L.O., de Souza, E.R., Jordanou, J.P., and Hubner, J.F.
(2021).
Physicsinformed neural nets-based control.
Bishop, C.M.
(2006).
Pattern recognition and machine learning.
Springer, New York, NY.
Brunton, S.L., Proctor, J.L., and Kutz, J.N.
(2016).
Sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics with control (SINDYc).
In NOLCOS, volume 49, issue 18, 710–715.
Cho, K., van Merrienboer, B., Gulcehre, C., Bahdanau, D., Bougares, F., Schwenk, H., and Bengio, Y.
(2014).
Learning phrase representations using RNN encoderdecoder for statistical machine translation.
Dener, A., Miller, M.A., Churchill, R.M., Munson, T., and Chang, C.S.
(2020).
Training neural networks under physical constraints using a stochastic augmented Lagrangian approach.
In Preprint Journal of Computational Physics.
Garcez, A.
and Lamb, L.C.
(2020).
Neurosymbolic AI: The 3rd wave.
G¨otte, R.-S.
and Timmermann, J.
(2022).
Composed physics- and data-driven system identification for nonautonomous systems in control engineering.
In Accepted for AIRC.
Jia, X., Willard, J., Karpatne, A., Read, J.S., Zwart, J.A., Steinbach, M., and Kumar, V.
(2020).
Physics-guided machine learning for scientific discovery: An application in simulating lake temperature profiles.
In ACM/IMS Transactions on Data Science, volume 2, issue 3, 1–26.
Junker, A., Timmermann, J., and Tr¨achtler, A.
(2021).
Data-driven models for control engineering applications using the Koopman operator.
In Accepted for ALCOS.
Karpatne, A., Atluri, G., Faghmous, J., Steinbach, M., Banerjee, A., Ganguly, A., Shekhar, S., Samatova, N., and Kumar, V.
(2017).
Theory-guided data science: A new paradigm for scientific discovery from data.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 29(10), 2318–2331.
Karpatne, A., Watkins, W., Read, J., and Kumar, V.
(2017).
Physics-guided neural networks (PGNN): An application in lake temperature modeling.
Kennedy, J.
and Eberhart, R.
(1995).
Particle swarm optimization.
In Proceedings of the IJCNN, volume 4, 1942–1948.
Kingma, D.P.
and Ba, J.
(2015).
Adam: A method for stochastic optimization.
In ICLR.
Kreißelmeier, G.
and Steinhauser, R.
(1979).
Systematic control design by optimizing a vector performance index.
IFAC Proceedings Volumes, volume 12, 113–117.
Raymond, S.J.
and Camarillo, D.B.
(2021).

Applying physics-based loss functions to neural networks for improved generalizability in mechanics problems.
In Preprint Journal of Computational Physics.
Shahriari, B., Swersky, K., Wang, Z., Adams, R.P., and de Freitas, N.
(2016).
Taking the human out of the loop: A review of Bayesian optimization.
In Proceedings of the IEEE, volume 104, 148–175.
Willard, J., Jia, X., Xu, S., Steinbach, M., and Kumar, V.
(2021).
Integrating scientific knowledge with machine learning for engineering and environmental systems.
