# References

[1] B.
Açıkmeşe, J.
M.
Carson, and L.
Blackmore.
Lossless convexification of nonconvex control bound and pointing constraints of the soft landing optimal control problem.
Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 21(6):2104–2113, 2013.
[2] J.
Buch and P.
Seiler.
Finite horizon robust synthesis using integral quadratic constraints.
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 31(8):3011–3035, 2021.
[3] P.
J.
Campo and M.
Morari.
Robust model predictive control.
In American control conference, pages 1021–1026.
IEEE, 1987.
[4] G.
De Nicolao, L.
Magni, and R.
Scattolini.
On the robustness of receding-horizon control with terminal constraints.
Transactions on Automatic Control, 41(3):451–453, 1996.
[5] G.
Grimm, M.
J.
Messina, S.
E.
Tuna, and A.
R.
Teel.
Examples when nonlinear model predictive control is nonrobust.
Automatica, 40(10):1729–1738, 2004.
[6] A.
Leeman, V.
Preda, I.
Huertas, and S.
Bennani.
Autonomous parafoil precision landing using convex real-time optimized guidance and control.
arXiv:2105.00715, 2021.
[7] D.
Mayne.
A Second-order Gradient Method for Determining Optimal Trajectories of Non-linear Discrete-time Systems.
International Journal of Control, 3(1):85–95, Jan.
1966.
[8] D.
Mayne, E.
Kerrigan, E.
Van Wyk, and P.
Falugi.
Tube-based robust nonlinear model predictive control.
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 21(11):1341–1353, 2011.
[9] D.
Mayne, M.
M.
Seron, and S.
Raković.
Robust model predictive control of constrained linear systems with bounded disturbances.
Automatica, 41(2):219–224, 2005.
[10] N.
Ozaki, S.
Campagnola, R.
Funase, and C.
H.
Yam.
Stochastic differential dynamic programming with unscented transform for low-thrust trajectory design.
Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, 41(2):377–387, 2018.
[11] Y.
Pan and E.
Theodorou.
Probabilistic differential dynamic programming.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 27:1907–1915, 2014.
[12] A.
Pavlov, I.
Shames, and C.
Manzie.
Interior Point Differential Dynamic Programming.
arXiv:1407.1537, 2020.
[13] J.
Rajamäki, K.
Naderi, V.
Kyrki, and P.
Hämäläinen.
Sampled differential dynamic programming.
In International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 1402–1409.
IEEE, 2016.
[14] C.
W.
Scherer.
Robust mixed control and linear parameter-varying control with full block scalings.
