To demonstrate the benefits of robust DDP, we consider a Monte Carlo series of simulations with system (21) and parameters $d _ { 1 } , d _ { 2 }$ sampled from the uniform distribution on $[ 0 , 0 . 1 ] _ { s } ^ { 1 } .$ . In addition to $d _ { 1 }$ and $d _ { 2 }$ also the initial conditions $\theta ( 0 ) ~ \in ~ [ \pi ~ - ~ 1 , \pi ~ + ~ 1 ] , \omega ( 0 ) ~ \in$ $[ - 0 . 5 , 0 . 5 ] , s ( 0 ) ~ \in ~ [ - 1 , 1 ] , v ( 0 ) ~ \in ~ [ - 1 , 1 ]$ are sampled from uniform distributions. Our robust DDP method is then applied, where the Q-function is approximated using an affine linearization of the system dynamics (see Subsection V-B) and the third possibility for convexification (see Subsection IV-C) is applied. For comparison of the performance of robust DDP and nominal DDP, we generate a single policy $\tilde { \pi } _ { t } ( x _ { t } ) = k _ { t } ^ { 1 } + K _ { t } ^ { 2 } \delta _ { t } ^ { x }$ with either robust or nominal DDP, run a simulation of system (21) and measure the performance (22) in each Monte Carlo shot. The running average costs of the Monte Carlo shots of robust and nominal DDP are shown in Figure 1. As we can see, the costs resulting from robust DDP are significantly lower than the costs from nominal DDP. Particularly, we highlight the outliers in the costs of nominal DDP in Figure 1, where the nominal planning method fails to stabilize the pendulum in the upright position. This does not happen with robust DDP.

To analyze the difference in performance of robust DDP and nominal DDP, we visualize the trajectories from the Monte Carlo experiments in Figure 2 and Figure 3. Considering particularly the trajectories highlighted in blue, we can see that the nominal policy makes many oscillations before stabilizing the pendulum at the top position. This strategy is sensitive to friction uncertainty, because the friction may dissipate energy from the system faster than it is supplied by the control input. The robust policy, on the other hand, does the swing up faster and leaves then some time for stabilizing the pendulum in the upright position. This strategy is more robust, because there is less time for dissipating energy on this trajectory and in the end, there is time for compensating the disturbances due to friction. What we see is that the changes of the robust strategy make intuitive sense. Moreover, we emphasize that not only the feedback term $\pmb { K } _ { t } ^ { 2 }$ , but the whole trajectory is changed due to the employment of robust control methods.
