[14] M.
Jost, G.
Pannocchia, and M.
M ¨onnigmann, “Accelerating linear model predictive control by constraint removal,” Eur.
J.
Control, vol.
35, pp.
42–49, 2017.
[15] L.
Gr ¨une and J.
Pannek, Nonlinear model predictive control, Communications and Control Engineering Series.
Springer, Cham, 2017, Theory and algorithms, second edition.
[16] N.
Altm ¨uller, Model Predictive Control for Partial Differential Equations, Ph.D.
thesis, Bayreuth, December 2014.

[17] S.
Dubljevic, J.-P.
Humaloja, and M.
Kurula, “Explicit model predictive control for PDEs: The case of a heat equation,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
55, no.
30, pp.
460–465, 2022.
[18] B.
Azmi and K.
Kunisch, “Receding horizon control for the stabilization of the wave equation,” Discrete Contin.
Dyn.
Syst., vol.
38, no.
2, pp.
449–484, 2018.
[19] K.
Ito and K.
Kunisch, “Receding horizon optimal control for infinite dimensional systems,” vol.
8, pp.
741–760.
2002, A tribute to J.
L.
Lions.
[20] Van Thang Pham, D.
Georges, and G.
Besanc¸on, “Infinite-dimensional predictive control for hyperbolic systems,” SIAM J.
Control Optim., vol.
52, no.
6, pp.
3592–3617, 2014.
[21] B.
Azmi and K.
Kunisch, “A hybrid finite-dimensional RHC for stabilization of time-varying parabolic equations,” SIAM J.
Control Optim., vol.
57, no.
5, pp.
3496–3526, 2019.
[22] K.
Kunisch and L.
Pfeiffer, “The effect of the terminal penalty in receding horizon control for a class of stabilization problems,” ESAIM Control Optim.
Calc.
Var., vol.
26, pp.
Paper No.
58, 26, 2020.
[23] Q.
Xu and S.
Dubljevic, “Linear model predictive control for transportreaction processes,” AIChE Journal, vol.
63, no.
7, pp.
2644 – 2659, 2017.
[24] S.
Dubljevic and J.-P.
Humaloja, “Model predictive control for regular linear systems,” Automatica, vol.
119, pp.
109–066, 2020.
[25] H.
Attouch, G.
Buttazzo, and G.
Michaille, Variational analysis in Sobolev and BV spaces, vol.
17 of MOS-SIAM Series on Optimization, SIAM, second edition, 2014, Applications to PDEs and optimization.
[26] E.
Zeidler, Nonlinear functional analysis and its applications.
III, Springer-Verlag, New York, 1985.
[27] R.
A.
Tapia and M.
W.
Trosset, “An extension of the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker necessity conditions to infinite programming,” SIAM Rev., vol.
36, no.
1, pp.
1–17, 1994.
[28] J.
A.
Villegas, A Port-Hamiltonian Approach to Distributed Parameter Systems, Ph.D.
thesis, University of Twente, Netherlands, 2007.
[29] B.
Jacob and H.
Zwart, Linear Port-Hamiltonian Systems on Infinitedimensional Spaces, vol.
223 of Operator Theory: Advances and Applications, Birkh¨auser, 2012.
[30] V.
Havu and J.
Malinen, “The Cayley transform as a time discretization scheme,” Numer.
Funct.
Anal.
Optim., vol.
28, no.
7-8, pp.
825–851, 2007.
[31] M.
Tucsnak and G.
Weiss, Observation and control for operator semigroups, Birkh¨auser Advanced Texts.
Birkh¨auser Verlag, 2009.
[32] L.

Gr ¨une, M.
Schaller, and A.
Schiela, “Exponential sensitivity and turnpike analysis for linear quadratic optimal control of general evolution equations,” J.
Differential Equations, vol.
268, no.
12, pp.
7311–7341, 2020.
[33] J.
Buerger, M.
Cannon, and B.
Kouvaritakis, “Active set solver for minmax robust control with state and input constraints,” Internat.
J.
Robust Nonlinear Control, vol.
26, no.
15, pp.
3209–3231, 2016.
