# References

[1] W. Ren and R. W. Beard, Distributed Consensus in Multi-vehicle Cooperative Control, Springer, London, UK, 2008.   
[2] Y. Hong, J. Hu, L. Gao, “Tracking control for multi-agent consensus with an active leader and variable topology”, Automatica, vol. 42, no. 7, 1177-1182, 2006.

[3] W.
Ni and D.
Cheng, “Leader-following consensus of multi-agent systems under fixed and switching topologies,” Systems and Control Letters, vol.
55, no.
3-4, pp.
209-217, 2010.
[4] Y.
Su and J.
Huang, “Cooperative output regulation of linear multi-agent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
57, no.
4, pp.
1062–1066, 2012.
[5] X.
Wang, D.
Xu, H.
Ji, “Robust almost output consensus in networks of nonlinear agents with external disturbances,” Automatica, vol.
70, pp.
303-311, 2016.
[6] Y.
Tang, “Coordination of multi-agent systems under switching topologies via disturbance observerbased approach,” International Journal of Systems Science, vol.
47, no, 16, pp.
3900–3907, 2016.
[7] T.
Liu and J.
Huang, “A distributed observer for a class of nonlinear systems and its application to a leader-following consensus problem,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
3, pp.
1221-1227, 2018.
[8] L.
An and G.
Yang, “Distributed optimal coordination for heterogeneous linear multi-agent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
12, pp.6850-6857, 2022.
[9] L.
Zhang and Y.
Li, “Fuzzy-resilient distributed optimal coordination for nonlinear multi-agent systems under command attacks,” IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 2022, online and available at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9917318.
[10] L.
Cao, Y.
Pan, H.
Liang, T.
Huang, “Observer-based dynamic event-triggered control for multiagent systems with time-varying delay,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
53, no.
5, pp.
3376-3387, 2023.
[11] B.
Kaviarasan, O.
Kwon, M.
Park, R.
Sakthivel, “Stochastic faulty estimator-based non-fragile tracking controller for multi-agent systems with communication delay,” Applied Mathematics and Computation, vol.
392, pp.
125704, 2021.
[12] L.
Farina and S.
Rinaldi, Positive Linear Systems: Theory and Applications, John Wiley and Sons, USA, 2002.
[13] X.
Liu, W.
Yu, L.
Wang, “Stability analysis for continuous-time positive systems with time-varying delays,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
55, no.
4, pp.
1024-1028, 2010.
[14] F.
Blanchini, P.
Colaneri, M.
E.
Valcher, “Switched positive linear systems,” Foundations and Trends in Systems and Control, vol.
2, no.
2, pp, 101-273, 2015.
[15] R.
Li and P.
