# V. CONCLUSION

The formation tracking control of multiple AUV systems in 3-dimensional space subject to the hydrodynamic parameter uncertainties and unknown environmental disturbances is addressed in this paper, where the overall system is not only required to maintain a specified formation pattern, but is aimed to follow a desired trajectory as a whole. In order to obtain a good coordination performance in shape forming, consensus problem is also considered between neighbor vehicles. To this end, a novel distributed bioinspired sliding mode control protocol is proposed based on the graph theory. In particular, due to the favorable dynamic characteristic of the shunting model, the chattering phenomena are completely avoided in the present SMC scheme, the amplitude of the control is able to be bounded, and the generated control actions are more consistent and smoother compared to the conventional one. Most importantly, owing to the filtering nature of the shunting equation, more robust behavior can be obtained with respect to the bounded lumped disturbance as well as the noises without needing the large control efforts. Moreover, the stability analysis of the resulting closed-loop system is proved using the Lyapunov direct method. Finally, several simulation experiments are carried out to demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of proposed distributed formation control protocol. In future work, more practical constraints on multiple AUV formation systems need to be further taken into account and addressed, such as the impacts of the communication imperfections (e.g., time delays, package loss, and even misleading data) as well as the nonholonomic kinematics.
