# REFERENCES

[1] J. Li, Z. Xu, D. Zhu, K. Dong, T. Yan, Z. Zeng, and S. X. Yang, “Bio-inspired intelligence with applications to robotics: a survey,” Intell. Robot., vol. 1, pp. 58–83, 2021.   
[2] T. I. Fossen, “Guidance and control of ocean vehicles,” University of Trondheim, Norway, Printed by John Wiley & Sons, Chichester, England, ISBN: 0 471 94113 1, Doctors Thesis, 1999.   
[3] B. Sun, D. Zhu, F. Ding, and S. X. Yang, “A novel tracking control approach for unmanned underwater vehicles based on bio-inspired neurodynamics,” Journal of marine science and technology, vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 63–74, 2013.   
[4] Y. Shi, C. Shen, H. Fang, and H. Li, “Advanced control in marine mechatronic systems: A survey,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1121–1131, 2017.   
[5] D. Zhu, H. Huang, and S. X. Yang, “Dynamic task assignment and path planning of multi-auv system based on an improved self-organizing map and velocity synthesis method in three-dimensional underwater workspace,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol. 43, no. 2, pp. 504– 514, 2013.   
[6] D. Zhu, B. Zhou, and S. X. Yang, “A novel algorithm of multi-auvs task assignment and path planning based on biologically inspired neural network map,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 333–342, 2020.   
[7] S. P. Hou and C. C. Cheah, “Can a simple control scheme work for a formation control of multiple autonomous underwater vehicles?” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 1090– 1101, 2010.   
[8] T. Balch and R. C. Arkin, “Behavior-based formation control for multirobot teams,” IEEE transactions on robotics and automation, vol. 14, no. 6, pp. 926–939, 1998.   
[9] G. V. Lakhekar, L. M. Waghmare, and R. G. Roy, “Disturbance observerbased fuzzy adapted s-surface controller for spatial trajectory tracking of autonomous underwater vehicle,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 622–636, 2019.   
[10] X. Wang, “Active fault tolerant control for unmanned underwater vehicle with actuator fault and guaranteed transient performance,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 470–479, 2021.   
[11] J. R. T. Lawton, A behavior-based approach to multiple spacecraft formation flying. Brigham Young University, 2000.   
[12] M. A. Lewis and K.-H. Tan, “High precision formation control of mobile robots using virtual structures,” Autonomous robots, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 387–403, 1997.
