# Appendix H. Implementation Details of Numerical Experiments

The LQR problem for the longitudinal flight control of Boeing 747 with linearized dynamics (Ishihara et al., 1992) is given as

$$
A _ {*} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} 0. 9 9 & 0. 0 3 & - 0. 0 2 & - 0. 3 2 \\ 0. 0 1 & 0. 4 7 & 4. 7 & 0 \\ 0. 0 2 & - 0. 0 6 & 0. 4 & 0 \\ 0. 0 1 & - 0. 0 4 & 0. 7 2 & 0. 9 9 \end{array} \right], B _ {*} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} 0. 0 1 & 0. 9 9 \\ - 3. 4 4 & 1. 6 6 \\ - 0. 8 3 & 0. 4 4 \\ - 0. 4 7 & 0. 2 5 \end{array} \right], Q = I, R = I, w \sim \mathcal {N} (0, I). \tag {137}
$$

This system has been studied in (Sabag et al., 2021; Lale et al., 2022). It corresponds to the dynamics for level flight of Boeing 747 at the altitude of 40000ft with the speed of 774ft/sec, for a discretization of 1 second. The first element of the state corresponds to the velocity of aircraft along body axis, the second is the velocity of aircraft perpendicular to body axis, the third is the angle between body axis and horizontal and the fourth is the angular velocity of aircraft. The system takes two dimensional inputs, where the first is the elevator angle and the second one is thrust.

For this task we deploy 4 different adaptive control algorithms that do not require initial stabilizing controller: (i) TSAC, (ii) StabL of Lale et al. (2022), (iii) TS-LQR of Abeille and Lazaric (2018), and (iv) OFULQ of Abbasi-Yadkori and Szepesv´ari (2011). Each algorithm has certain hyperparamters and we tune each parameter in terms of its effect on refret and present the performance of the best performing hyperparameter choices. We use the actual estimation errors in the algorithm design. Note that this has been observed to have negligible effect on the performance (Dean et al., 2018).
