# D Optimizing CCMs and OCMs for output feedback

In this section, we describe in more detail our method for synthesizing optimized CCMs and OCMs (described briefly in Sec 4.3. To implement the tracking feedback controller and observers needed at runtime, we need to obtain the CCMs and OCMs that define them. Two popular ways for synthesizing contraction metrics are convex optimization (SoS programming) [18] and learning [5]. While the optimization-based methods are more efficient and easier to analyze than the learning-based approaches, the learningbased methods can be applied to higher-dimensional, non-polynomial systems. Since we focus on (approximately) polynomial systems in the results, we obtain CCMs and OCMs via SoS programming; however, our method is agnostic to how the CCMs/OCMs are generated, as long as all the associated constants $( \mathrm { e . g . } , \bar { \lambda } _ { D _ { e } } ( M _ { e } ) , \bar { \lambda } _ { D _ { c } } ( M _ { c } ) , \mathrm { e t c . } )$ can be accurately bounded.

To minimize conservativeness in planning (cf. Sec. 4.4), it is important that the contraction metrics induce small tubes. However, exactly optimizing the tubes in (20) is challenging, as they are coupled and depend on plan-dependent constants. For tractability, we optimize a surrogate objective and design the CCM and OCM separately.

Denote $- G _ { c } ( x )$ as the LHS of (2a), v as a vector of indeterminates of compatible dimension with $G _ { c } ( x )$ , and $\bar { \beta } \ge \beta > 0$ . Let ${ \mathbf I } _ { n }$ be the $n \times n$ identity matrix. For the CCM, we minimize the steady-state tracking tube width for a uniform disturbance bound as in [22] by solving the following:

$$
\begin{array}{l l} \underset {W _ {c} (x), \bar {W} _ {c}, \lambda_ {c}, \mu_ {i} ^ {c} (x)} {\text { minimize }} & \frac {1}{\lambda_ {c}} \sqrt {\frac {\bar {\lambda} _ {D _ {c}} (W _ {c})}{\underline {{\lambda}} _ {D _ {c}} (W _ {c})}} \\ \text { subject   to } & (2 b) \\ & v ^ {\top} G _ {c} (x) v - \sum_ {i} \mu_ {i} ^ {e} (x) c _ {i} (x) \in \mathbf {S o S} \\ & \underline {{\beta}} \mathbf {I} _ {n _ {x}} \preceq W _ {c} (x) \preceq \bar {W} _ {c} \preceq \bar {\beta} \mathbf {I} _ {n _ {x}} \end{array} \tag {D.12}
$$
