We motivate (D.12) in the following. For polynomial dynamics and CCMs, the CCM condition (2) is equivalent to enforcing the nonnegativity of a polynomial function p(x) over a domain. A sufficient condition for proving $p ( x ) \geq 0$ over a domain is to enforce that $p ( x )$ can be written as a sum of squares; this can be enforced via a semidefinite constraint, which is convex and is referred to in (D.12) as $p ( x ) \in \mathrm { S o S }$ . As it may not be possible to enforce (2a) globally for all $x \in { \mathcal { X } } .$ , we further introduce nonnegative Lagrange multipliers $\mu _ { i } ^ { e } ( x )$ to only enforce (2a) over the subset $D _ { c } \subseteq { \mathcal { X } }$ . Specifically, we rewrite $x \in D _ { c } \Leftrightarrow { \textstyle \bigwedge } _ { i = 1 } ^ { n _ { \mathrm { c o n } } } \{ c _ { i } ( x ) \leq 0 \}$ , where $c _ { i } ( \cdot )$ are constraint functions that together define the boundary of $D _ { c } ;$ then, for some x where $c _ { i } ( x ) > 0 , \mu _ { i } ^ { c } ( x )$ can take some positive value to satisfy the SoS condition even if $v ^ { \top } G ( x ) v < 0$ . We handle condition (2b) by restricting $W _ { c } ( x )$ to be only a function of a subset of state variables (cf. [22]), and we add additional constraints on the eigenvalues of $W _ { c }$ to ensure that its inverse is well-defined. As in [22], while (D.12) is not convex as written, it can be solved to global optimality by solving a sequence of convex SoS feasibility programs, where a subset of the decision variables are fixed at each iteration. Specifically, we perform a line search over $\lambda _ { c }$ and a bisection search over the condition number $\bar { \lambda } _ { D _ { c } } ( W _ { c } ) / { \underline { { \lambda } } _ { D _ { c } } ( W _ { c } ) }$ .

We take a similar approach for optimizing OCMs. First, we found it sufficient to use constant OCMs and multipliers $\rho$ for the systems in this paper due to the simplifications enabled by the inverse perception map. This simplifies the condition (4) to

$$W _ {e} A (\hat {x}) + A (\hat {x}) ^ {\top} W _ {e} - \rho C _ {r} ^ {\top} C _ {r} + 2 \lambda_ {e} W _ {e} \leq 0. \tag {D.13}$$

Let $- G _ { e } ( x )$ be the LHS of (D.13). We then obtain our OCM by solving the following:
