Proof. By construction, Alg. 1 returns a plan $( x ^ { * } ( t ) , u ^ { * } ( t ) )$ which ensures that $\varOmega _ { c } ( t ) \cap$ $\chi _ { \mathrm { u n s a f e } } = \emptyset$ , for all $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , where $\Omega _ { c } ( t ) = \{ x \mid d _ { c } ( x ^ { * } ( t ) , x ( t ) ) \leq \bar { d } _ { c } ( t ) \}$ , and $x ( T ) \in \mathcal { G }$ . Thus, $x ( t ) \cap \chi _ { \mathrm { u n s a f e } } = \emptyset$ , provided that $x ( t ) \in \varOmega _ { c } ( t )$ , for all $t \in [ 0 , T ]$ , i.e., the tubes are valid. Using Theorem 1 and the assumption that all estimated constants are valid over their computed domains (from the theorem statement), the tubes are valid if $x ( t )$ remains in the corresponding domains of validity for all constants in (19). In the following, we exhaustively prove that the additional constraints introduced by Alg. 1 enforce this domain invariance.

First, we list all constants in (20) with a non-trivial domain of validity.

1. CCM-related constants: the minimum and maximum eigenvalues of $M _ { c } \colon \underbrace { \lambda _ { D _ { c } } ( M _ { c } ) }$ , $\bar { \lambda } _ { D _ { c } } ( M _ { c } )$ , and the CCM contraction rate $\lambda _ { c }$ .   
2. OCM-related constants: the minimum and maximum eigenvalues of $M _ { e } \colon \underline { { \lambda } } ( M _ { e } )$ , $\bar { \lambda } ( M _ { e } )$ , the OCM contraction rate $\lambda _ { e } .$ , and the multiplier $\rho .$   
3. Constants estimated with probabilistic correctness guarantees using the Fisher-Tippett-Gnedenko (FTG) theorem [5,13,28]: $L _ { \varDelta k } , L _ { \hat { h } ^ { - 1 } } ,$ and all constants involved in the perception error bounds $\bar { \epsilon } _ { i } ( x ^ { * } , \theta ) , i = 1 , 2 , 3 \colon \bar { \epsilon } _ { 1 } , L _ { p } .$ and $\mathcal { R }$ .

Now, we prove why each group of constants is valid under the constraints of Alg. 1:
