[13] W.
Ren and R.
W.
Beard, “Formation feedback control for multiple spacecraft via virtual structures,” IEE Proceedings-Control Theory and Applications, vol.
151, no.
3, pp.
357–368, 2004.
[14] P.
K.
Wang, “Navigation strategies for multiple autonomous mobile robots moving in formation,” Journal of Robotic Systems, vol.
8, no.
2, pp.
177–195, 1991.
[15] D.
Edwards, T.
Bean, D.
Odell, and M.
Anderson, “A leader-follower algorithm for multiple auv formations,” in 2004 IEEE/OES Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (IEEE Cat.
No.
04CH37578).
IEEE, 2004, pp.
40–46.
[16] S.
S.
Ge and C.-H.
Fua, “Queues and artificial potential trenches for multirobot formations,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
21, no.
4, pp.
646–656, 2005.
[17] S.
S.
Ge, C.-H.
Fua, and K.
W.
Lim, “Multi-robot formations: queues and artificial potential trenches,” in IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2004.
Proceedings.
ICRA’04.
2004, vol.
4.
IEEE, 2004, pp.
3345–3350.
[18] P.
Millan, L.
Orihuela, I.
Jurado, and F.
R.
Rubio, “Formation control ´ of autonomous underwater vehicles subject to communication delays,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
22, no.
2, pp.
770–777, 2013.
[19] K.
Shojaei, “Neural network formation control of underactuated autonomous underwater vehicles with saturating actuators,” Neurocomputing, vol.
194, pp.
372–384, 2016.
[20] B.
Das, B.
Subudhi, and B.
B.
Pati, “Adaptive sliding mode formation control of multiple underwater robots,” Archives of control Sciences, vol.
24, no.
4, pp.
515–543, 2014.
[21] M.
R.
Ramezani-al and Z.
Tavanaei Sereshki, “A novel adaptive sliding mode controller design for tracking problem of an auv in the horizontal plane,” International Journal of Dynamics and Control, vol.
7, no.
2, pp.
679–689, 2019.
[22] Y.
Wang, L.
Gu, M.
Gao, and K.
Zhu, “Multivariable output feedback adaptive terminal sliding mode control for underwater vehicles,” Asian Journal of Control, vol.
18, no.
1, pp.
247–265, 2016.
[23] R.
Cui, S.
S.
Ge, B.
V.
E.
How, and Y.
S.
Choo, “Leader–follower formation control of underactuated autonomous underwater vehicles,” Ocean Engineering, vol.
37, no.
17-18, pp.
1491–1502, 2010.
[24] J.
Wang, C.
Wang, Y.
Wei, and C.
Zhang, “Sliding mode based neural adaptive formation control of underactuated auvs with leader-follower strategy,” Applied Ocean Research, vol.
94, p.
101971, 2020.
[25] Y.
Wang, W.
Yan, and J.
