Colaneri, “Modelling the COVID-19 epidemic and implementation of population-wide interventions in Italy,” Nature Medicine, vol.
26, no.
6, pp.
855–860, 2020.
[26] C.
Nowzari, V.
M.
Preciado, and G.
J.
Pappas, “Analysis and control of epidemics: A survey of spreading processes on complex networks,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, vol.
36, no.
1, pp.
26–46, 2016.
[27] W.
Mei, S.
Mohagheghi, S.
Zampieri, and F.
Bullo, “On the dynamics of deterministic epidemic propagation over networks,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
44, pp.
116–128, 2017.
[28] P.
E.
Par´e, C.
L.
Beck, and T.
Bas¸ar, “Modeling, estimation, and analysis of epidemics over networks: An overview,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
50, pp.
345–360, 2020.
[29] M.
Giaquinta and G.
Modica, Mathematical Analysis: An Introduction to Functions of Several Variables.
Springer: Birkh¨auser Boston, 2009.
[30] G.
Giordano, M.
Colaneri, A.
Di Filippo, F.
Blanchini, P.
Bolzern, G.
De Nicolao, P.
Sacchi, P.
Colaneri, and R.
Bruno, “Modeling vaccination rollouts, SARS-CoV-2 variants and the requirement for nonpharmaceutical interventions in Italy,” Nature Medicine, vol.
27, no.
6, pp.
993–998, 2021.
[31] F.
Bullo, Lectures on Network Systems, edition 1.6, 2022.
[Online].
Available: http://motion.me.ucsb.edu/book-lns   
[32] S.
Audoly, G.
Bellu, L.
D’Angi ´o, M.
P.
Saccomani, and C.
Cobelli, “Global identifiability of nonlinear models of biological systems,” IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, vol.
48, no.
1, pp.
55–65, 2001.
[33] M.
P.
Saccomani, S.
Audoly, and L.
D’Angi \`o, “Parameter identifiability of nonlinear systems: the role of initial conditions,” Automatica, vol.
39, no.
4, pp.
619–632, 2003.
[34] G.
Bellu, M.
P.
Saccomani, S.
Audoly, and L.
D’Angi \`o, “DAISY: A new software tool to test global identifiability of biological and physiological systems,” Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine, vol.
88, no.
1, pp.
52–61, 2007.
[35] O.
Chis¸, J.
R.
Banga, and E.
Balsa-Canto, “GenSSI: A software toolbox for structural identifiability analysis of biological models,” Bioinformatics, vol.
27, no.
18, pp.
2610–2611, 2011.
