# REFERENCES

[1] I. Z. Kiss, J. C. Miller, and P. L. Simon, Mathematics of Epidemics on Networks: From Exact to Approximate Models. Springer, 2017.   
[2] V. L. Somers and I. R. Manchester, “Sparse resource allocation for control of spreading processes via convex optimization,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 547–552, 2020.   
[3] E. Tuyishimire and B. A. Bagula, “Modelling and analysis of interference diffusion in the internet of things: An epidemic model,” in 2020 Conference on Information Communications Technology and Society (ICTAS), 2020, pp. 1–6.   
[4] B. K. Mishra and S. K. Pandey, “Dynamic model of worm propagation in computer network,” Applied Mathematical Modelling, vol. 38, no. 7-8, pp. 2173–2179, 2014.   
[5] R. P. Ojha, P. K. Srivastava, and G. Sanyal, “Improving wireless sensor networks performance through epidemic model,” International Journal of Electronics, vol. 106, no. 6, pp. 862–879, 2019.   
[6] G. Massonis, J. R. Banga, and A. F. Villaverde, “Structural identifiability and observability of compartmental models of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol. 51, pp. 441–459, 2021.   
[7] T. Sauer, T. Berry, D. Ebeigbe, M. M. Norton, A. J. Whalen, and S. J. Schiff, “Identifiability of infection model parameters early in an epidemic,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, no. 0, pp. S27– S48, 2021.   
[8] K. Hadeler, “Parameter identification in epidemic models,” Mathematical Biosciences, vol. 229, no. 2, pp. 185–189, 2011.   
[9] G. Chowell, “Fitting dynamic models to epidemic outbreaks with quantified uncertainty: A primer for parameter uncertainty, identifiability, and forecasts,” Infectious Disease Modelling, vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 379–398, 2017.   
[10] P. Magal and G. Webb, “The parameter identification problem for SIR epidemic models: Identifying unreported cases,” Journal of Mathematical Biology, vol. 77, no. 6, pp. 1629–1648, 2018.   
[11] S. Alonso-Quesada, M. De la Sen, R. Agarwal, and A. Ibeas, “An observer-based vaccination control law for an SEIR epidemic model based on feedback linearization techniques for nonlinear systems,” Advances in Difference Equations, vol. 2012, no. 1, pp. 1–32, 2012.
