# 6.1 Conclusion

The thesis has proposed modified forms of sliding mode controller structure using variants of PID-type sliding surfaces and modified forms of reaching laws for non-linear systems. Presence and forms of non-linearity in nature has been discussed which shows the prime importance of considering the non-linearities directly while analyzing and designing controllers for non-linear systems. Moreover using PSO as the offline optimization technique to tune the parameters for non-linear systems was discussed.

Initially, traditional sliding mode controller was designed using PSO algorithm for non-linear dynamical system and it was found that the traditional controller gives improved result both in settling time and disturbance than the traditional PID controllers. The control structure is then modified by adding an integral term in the sliding surface function which in turn modifies the controller, parameters of which are tuned using PSO technique. It is observed that the additional integral term in the controller structure improves the convergence time as well as the stability of the non-linear process that leads improvement in the performance of the controller. Also, the non-linear system is invariant to parameters uncertainties and external disturbances. The problem of chattering is encountered mainly in sliding mode control, reduced mainly by using the boundary conditions. Progressing on the problem of chattering, second order sliding mode controller based on PI-type sliding surface connected in the feedforward path. Proposed is the technique where PD-type sliding mode control is connected in the feedback loop, reducing peak overshoot completely as well as the problem of singularity encountered in the SimMechanics model of the nonlinear inverted pendulum system during simulations. The stability of the non-linear system is proves using the direct Lyapunov stability criteria. The proposed controller is checked and verified using both simulation and experiment. Further, the robustness of the controller is verified by taking ±10% variation in the non-linear plant parameters and constant external disturbance connected to the plants. For experimental validation a real time conical system was analyzed, whose shape justifies its non-linearity using MatlabR2010a / Simulink. It is found that the experimental result is proving the proposed method by a high convergence rate. It shows satisfactory performance i.e. the settling time of the experimental result gives out 29 seconds.
