# K.4. Cartpole Experiments

We investigate further the example in our simulation in which the two constituent controllers are $K _ { o p t } + \Delta$ and $K _ { o p t } - \Delta$ . We use OpenAI gym to simulate this situation. In the Figure 2(b), it was shown our Softmax PG algorithm (with estimated values and gradients) converged to a improper mixture of the two controllers, i $. \mathrm { e } . , \approx ( 0 . 5 3 , 0 . 4 7 )$ . Let $K _ { \mathsf { c o n v } }$ be defined as the (randomized) controller which chooses $K _ { 1 }$ with probability 0.53, and $K _ { 2 }$ with probability 0.47. Recall from Sec. 2.1 that this control law converts the linearized cartpole into an Ergodic Parameter Linear System (EPLS). In Table 3 we report the average number of rounds the pendulum stays upright when different controllers are applied for all time, over trajectories of length 500 rounds. The third column displays an interesting feature of our algorithm. Over 100 trials, the base controllers do not stabilize the pendulum for a relatively large number of trials, however, $K _ { \mathsf { c o n v } }$ successfully does so most of the times.

Table 3: A table showing the number of rounds the constituent controllers manage to keep the cartpole upright.

<table><tr><td>Controller</td><td>Mean number of rounds before the pendulum falls ∧ 500</td><td># Trials out of 100 in which the pendulum falls before 500 rounds</td></tr><tr><td> $K_1(K_{opt} + \Delta)$ </td><td>403</td><td>38</td></tr><tr><td> $K_2(K_{opt} - \Delta)$ </td><td>355</td><td>46</td></tr><tr><td> $K_{conv}$ </td><td>465</td><td>8</td></tr></table>

We mention here that if one follows $K ^ { * }$ , which is the optimum controller matrix one obtains by solving the standard Discrete-time Algebraic Riccatti Equation (DARE) (Bertsekas, 2011), the pole does not fall over 100 trials. However, as indicated in Sec.1, constructing the optimum controller for this system from scratch requires exponential, in the number of state dimension, sample complexity (Chen & Hazan, 2020). On the other hand $K _ { \mathsf { c o n v } }$ performs very close to the optimum, while being sample efficient.

Choice of hyperparameters. In the simulations, we set learning rate to be $1 0 ^ { - 4 }$ , #runs = 10, #rollouts = 10, lt = 30, discount factor $\gamma = 0 . 9$ and $\alpha = 1 / \sqrt { \# \mathbf { r u n s } }$ . All the simulations have been run for 20 trials and the results shown are averaged over them. We capped the queue sizes at 1000.
