# K.5. Some extra simulations for natural-actor-critic based improper learner NACIL

• First we show a queuing theory where we have 2 queues to be served and we have two base controllers similar to as we discussed in the Sec 2. However, here we have two different arrival rates for the two queues $( \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } ) \equiv ( 0 . 4 , 0 . 3 ) , \mathrm { i . e . }$ , the arrival rates are unequal. We plot in Fig. 11 the probability of choosing the two different controllers. We see that ACIL converges to the “correct” mixture of the base controllers.   
• Next, we show a simulation on the setting in Sec. K.1, which we called a Chain MDP. We recall that this setting consists of two base controllers $K _ { 1 }$ and $K _ { 2 } ,$ , however a $( 1 / 2 , 1 / 2 )$ mixture of the two controllers was shown (analytically) to perform better than each individual ones. As the plot in Fig. 12 shows NACIL identifies the correct combination and follows it.

Choice of hyperparameters. For the queuing theoretic simulations of Algorithm 2 ACIL, we choose $\alpha = 1 0 ^ { - 4 } , \beta = 1 0 ^ { - 3 }$ . We choose the identity mapping $\varphi ( s ) \equiv s ,$ , where s is the current state of the system which is a N −length vector, which consists of the $i ^ { t h }$ queue length at the $i ^ { t h }$ position. λ was chosen to be 0.1. The other parameters are chosen as $B = 5 0$ , H = 30 and $T _ { c } = 2 0$ . We choose a buffer of size 1000 to keep the states bounded, i.e., if a queue exceeds a size 1000, those arrivals are ignored and queue length is not increased. This is used to normalize the $\| \varphi ( s ) \| _ { 2 }$ across time.
