# C. Exemplary Time-Domain Simulation

Finally, simulation results of the detailed model are shown to demonstrate a more application-oriented use of the adaptive control system. The Simbench study case with the acronym lW from [25] is simulated in the following investigation [25]. This study case is characterized by low load and very high wind generation. At the interconnection point to the HV grid, energy is transferred from the MV grid to the HV grid.

The control system is excited by changes in the reference value $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } } .$ At time $t = 2 0 \mathrm { s }$ and $t = 2 0 0 \mathrm { s } , P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ is increased by a step of 1 MW and reduced by 1 MW a short time later. In the time span from 0 s to 170 s, all DERs are available to the CPFC. From 170 s, the CPFC can no longer use the six WTs (compare Table I), so the adaptive controller adjusts the control parameters. Fig. 11 shows the interconnection power flow $P _ { \mathrm { I P } }$ to the 110 kV grid and the corresponding reference value $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } } .$ .

For all $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ jumps, the CPFC can completely compensate the deviation between $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ and $P _ { \mathrm { I P } }$ . Despite the differences between the reference models and the detailed models, no oscillations occur after the four $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ jumps. For the first two $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ jumps the rise time and settling time lie within a few seconds. In contrast, for the $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ jumps at $t ~ = ~ 2 0 0 s$ and $t ~ = ~ 4 2 0 \mathrm { s }$ , the control system’s rise and settling time are significantly higher than after the first two $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } }$ jumps. This is caused by the unavailability of all WTs for the control system. The inert CHP plants dominate the performance of the control loop in this time span. Because of the presented control structure extension in Fig. 3, the control parameter switching at $\mathrm { t } = 1 7 0 \mathrm { s }$ does not lead to deviations between $P _ { \mathrm { I P } }$ and $P _ { \mathrm { r e f } } .$ Furthermore, simulations of other study cases with different combinations of DERs have shown results comparable to Fig. 11. Summarized, the exemplary simulation results in Fig. 11 demonstrate the operation of the adaptive control system developed in this work.
