Caines, P.E. and Huang, M. (2021). Graphon mean field games and their equations. SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 59(6), 4373–4399.   
Carmona, R., Cooney, D., Graves, C., and Lauriere, M. (2019). Stochastic graphon games: I. the static case. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.10664.   
Delarue, F. (2017). Mean field games: A toy model on an Erd¨os-R´enyi graph. ESAIM: Proceedings and Surveys, 60, 1–26.   
Foguen Tchuendom, R., Caines, P.E., and Huang, M. (2021). Critical nodes in graphon mean field games. In Proceedings of the 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 166–170.   
Gao, S. and Caines, P.E. (2020). Graphon control of largescale networks of linear systems. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 65(10), 4090–4105.   
Gao, S., Caines, P.E., and Huang, M. (2021a). LQG graphon mean field games: Graphon invariant subspaces. In Proceedings of the 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 5253–5260.   
Gao, S., Foguen Tchuendom, R., and Caines, P.E. (2021b). Linear quadratic graphon field games. Communications in Information and Systems, 21(3), 341–369.   
Huang, M., Caines, P., and Malhame, R. (2007). Largepopulation cost-coupled LQG problems with nonuniform agents: Individual-mass behavior and decentralized ε-nash equilibria. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 52, 1560–1571.   
Huang, M., Caines, P.E., and Malham´e, R.P. (2010). The NCE (mean field) principle with locality dependent cost interactions. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 55(12), 2799–2805.   
Huang, M., Malham´e, R.P., and Caines, P.E. (2006). Large population stochastic dynamic games: closedloop McKean-Vlasov systems and the Nash certainty equivalence principle. Communications in Information and Systems, 6(3), 221–251.   
Lacker, D. and Soret, A. (2022). A case study on stochastic games on large graphs in mean field and sparse regimes. Mathematics of Operations Research, 47(2), 1530–1565.   
Lasry, J.M. and Lions, P.L. (2006). Jeux \`a champ moyen. II. Horizon fini et contrˆole optimal. C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Paris, 343(10), 679–684.   
Lovasz, L. (2012). Large Networks and Graph Limits. American Mathematical Society colloquium publications. American Mathematical Society.   
Parise, F. and Ozdaglar, A. (2019). Graphon games. In Proceedings of the 2019 ACM Conference on Economics and Computation, 457–458.
