# M. Discussion

We have considered the problem of using a menu of baseline controllers and combining them using improper probabilistic mixtures to form a superior controller. In many relevant MDP learning settings, we saw that this is indeed possible, and the policy gradient and actor-critic based analyses indicate that this approach may be widely applicable. This work opens up a plethora of avenues. One can consider a richer class of mixtures that can look at the current state and mix accordingly. For example, an attention model can be used to choose which controller to use, or other state-dependent models can be relevant. Another example is to artificially force switching across controllers to occur less frequently than in every round. The can help create momentum and allow the controlled process to ’mix’ better, when using complex controllers.

A few caveats are in order regarding the potential societal impact and consequences of this work. As such, this paper offers a way of combining or ‘blending’ a given class of decision-making entities in the hope of producing a ‘better’ one. In this process, the definitions of what constitutes ‘optimal’ or ‘expected’ behavior from a policy are likely to be subjective, and may encode biases and attitudes of the system designer(s). More importantly, it is possible that the base policy class (or some elements of it) have undesirable properties to begin with (e.g., bias or insensitivity), which could get amplified in the improper learning process as an unintended outcome. We sound ample caution to practitioners who contemplate adopting this method.

Finally, in the present setting, the base controllers are fixed. It would be interesting to consider adding adaptive, or ’learning’ controllers as well as the fixed ones. Including the base controllers can provide baseline performance below which the performance of the learning controllers would not drop.
