[89] Y. Song and W. Chen, “High-accuracy quick-reaching sliding mode variable structure terminal guidance law”, Journal of Beijing University of Aeronautics and astronautics, vol. 38, No. 3, pp. 319-323, 2012.   
[90] V.I. Utkin, J. Shi, “Integral Sliding mode in systems operating under uncertainity conditions”, Proceedings of the 35th Conference of Decision and Control, Kobe Japan, December 1996.   
[91] F Castanos, D Hernandez, L. Fridman, “Integral sliding-mode control for linear time-invariant implicit systems”, Brief paper, Automatica, Accepted 5 December 2013.   
[92] Arie Levant, Lela Alelishvili, “Integral High-Order sliding Modes”, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, Vol. 52, No. 7, July 2007.   
[93] F. Castanos, L. Fridman, “Analysis and design of integral sliding manifold for systems with unmatched perturbations”, IEEE Trans. On Automatic Control, Vol. 51, No. 5, pp. 853-858, 2006.   
[94] V.I. Utkin, J. Shi, “Integral Sliding mode in systems operating under uncertainity conditions”, Proceedings of the 35th Conference of Decision and Control, Kobe Japan, December 1996.   
[95] N. Adhikary, C. Mahanta, “Integral backstepping sliding mode control for underactuated systems: Swing-up and stabilization of the Cart-Pendulum System”, ISA Transaction, vol 52, pp. 870-880, 2013.   
[96] Z. Liu, H. Su, S. Pan, “A New Adaptive Sliding Mode Control of uncertain Nonlinear Systems”, Asian Journal of Control, Vol. 16, No. 1, pp. 198–208, 2014.   
[97] P.K. Padhy, S. Majhi, “Relay based PI–PD design for stable and unstable FOPDT processes”, Computers and Chemical Engineering, Vol. 30, No. 5, pp. 790–796, 2006.   
[98] Y. Lei, J. Q. Shen, F. Xiao and H. L. Wang, “A novel reaching law approach of quasi-sliding mode control for uncertain discrete-time systems”, Jour. Cent. South Univ., Springer, 19, pp. 2514-2519, 2012.
