V.
Emelyanov, ”Theory of Variable Structure control systems: Inception and Initial development”, Computational Mathematics and Modeling, Vol.
18, No.
4, 2007.
[33] G.
Bartolini, T.
Zolezzi, “Nonlinear control of Variable structure systems”, IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, Vol.
30, pp.
681-684, 1985.
[34] V.I.
Utkin, “Variable Structure systems with sliding modes”, Survey Paper, IEEE Transaction on Automatic Control, Vol 22, No.
2, April 1977.

[35] J.Y.
Hung, W.
Gao, J.C.
Hung, “Variable Structure control: A Survey”, IEEE Transaction on Industrial Electronics, Vol.
40, No.
1, February 1993.
[36] R.A.
DeCarlo, S.H.
Zak, G.P.
Matthews, “Variable Structure Control of Nonlinear Multivariable Systems: A tutorial”, Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol.
76, No.3, March, 1988.
[37] P.
Zlateva, “Variable structure control of nonlinear systems”, Control Eng.
Pract., Vol.
4, No.
7, pp.
1023- 1028, 1996.
[38] W.
Gao, J.C.
Hung, “Variable structure control of nonlinear systems: A new approach”, IEEE Trans.
On Indust.
Elect., Vol.
40, No.
1, February 1993.
[39] J.J.E.
Slotine, M.
W.
Spong, “Robust robot control with bounded input torques”, Journal of Robotics systems, Vol.
2, No.
4, pp.
329-352, 1985.
[40] Y.
Stepanenko, Y.
Cao, C.
Y.
Su, “Variable structure control of Robotic manipulator with PID sliding surfaces”, International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, Vol.
8, pp.
79-90, 1998.
[41] I.
Eker, “Second order sliding mode control with Experimental application”, ISA transaction, Vol.
49, No.
3, pp.
394-405, 2010.
[42] J.J.E.
Slotine, S.
Sastry, “Tracking control of non-linear systems using sliding surface, with application to robot manipulators”, International Journal of control, Vol.
38, No.
2, pp.
465-492, 1983.
[43] L.
Dieci, L.
Lopez, “Sliding motion in Filippov differential systems: theoretical results and a computational approach”, SIAM Jour.
Numer.
Anal., Vol.
47, pp.
2023-2051, 2009.
[44] V.
I.
Utkin, “Sliding modes in Control and Optimization”, 1st edition, Springer Verlag, Berlin, 1992.
[45] D.
Edwards, S.
K.
Spurgeon, “Sliding Mode Control: Theory and application”, 1st edition, Taylor & Francis, CRC press, 1998.
[46] Y.
Shtessel, C.
Edwards, L.
Fridman, A.
Levant, “Sliding mode Control and Observation”, 1st edition, Birkhauser, Springer, 2014.
[47] K.
D.
Young, U.
Ozguner, V.
I.
Utkin, “A control engineers guide to sliding mode control”, IEEE Trans.
Contr.
Syst.
Tech., vol 7, pp.
328-342, 1999.
[48] A.
Bradshaw, J.
Shao, “Swing-up control of inverted pendulum systems”, Robotica, Cambridge University press, 14, pp.
397-405, 1996.
[49] C.C.
Yih, “Sliding Mode Control for Swing-up and Stabilization of the Cart-Pole Underactuated System”, Asian Journal of Control, Vol.
15, No.
4, pp.
1201-1214, 2013.
[50] S.V.
Drakunov, V.
I.
Utkin, “Sliding mode in dynamic systems”, Int.
Jour.
Control, Vol.
55, pp.
1029-1037, 1990.
