Zasadzinski, “Circle criterion-based $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ observer design for Lipschitz and monotonic nonlinear systems – Enhanced LMI conditions and constructive discussions,” Automatica, vol.
85, pp.
412– 425, 2017.
[50] R.
Rajamani, W.
Jeon, H.
Movahedi, and A.
Zemouche, “On the need for switched-gain observers for non-monotonic nonlinear systems,” Automatica, vol.
114, p.
108814, 2020.
[51] V.
Andrieu and P.
Bernard, “Remarks about the numerical inversion of injective nonlinear maps,” in 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2021, pp.
5428–5434.
[52] L.
d.
C.
Ramos, F.
Di Meglio, V.
Morgenthaler, L.
F.
F.
da Silva, and P.
Bernard, “Numerical design of Luenberger observers for nonlinear systems,” in 2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2020, pp.
5435–5442.
[53] J.
Peralez and M.
Nadri, “Deep Learning-based Luenberger observer design for discrete-time nonlinear systems,” in 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2021, pp.
4370–4375.
[54] M.
Darouach, M.
Zasadzinski, and S.
J.
Xu, “Full-order observers for linear systems with unknown inputs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
39, no.
3, pp.
606–609, 1994.
[55] S.
Boyd, L.
El Ghaoui, E.
Feron, and V.
Balakrishnan, Linear Matrix Inequalities in System and Control Theory.
SIAM, 1994.
[56] M.
Ekramian, S.
Hosseinnia, and F.
Sheikholeslam, “Observer design for non-linear systems based on a generalised Lipschitz condition,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
5, no.
16, pp.
1813–1818, 2011.
