# K.2. Stationary Bernoulli Queues

We study two different settings (1) where in the first case the optimal policy is a strict improper combination of the available controllers and (2) where it is at a corner point, i.e., one of the available controllers itself is optimal. Our simulations show that in both the cases, PG converges to the correct controller distribution.

Recall the example that we discussed in Sec. 2.2. We consider the case with Bernoulli arrivals with rates $\pmb { \lambda } = [ \lambda _ { 1 } , \lambda _ { 2 } ]$ ] and are given two base/atomic controllers $\{ K _ { 1 } , K _ { 2 } \}$ , where controller $K _ { i }$ serves Queue i with probability $1 , i = 1 , 2$ . As can be seen in Fig. 9(b) when $\lambda = [ 0 . 4 9 , 0 . 4 9$ ] (equal arrival rates), GradEst converges to an improper mixture policy that serves each queue with probability [0.5, 0.5]. Note that this strategy will also stabilize the system whereas both the base controllers lead to instability (the queue length of the unserved queue would obviously increase without bound). Figure 9(c), shows that with unequal arrival rates too, GradEst quickly converges to the best policy.

Fig. 9(d) shows the evolution of the value function of GradEst (in blue) compared with those of the base controllers (red) and the Longest Queue First policy (LQF) which, as the name suggests, always serves the longest queue in the system (black). LQF, like any policy that always serves a nonempty queue in the system whenever there is one3, is known to be optimal in the sense of delay minimization for this system (Mohan et al., 2016). See Sec. K in the Appendix for more details about this experiment.

Finally, Fig. 9(e) shows the result of the second experimental setting with three base controllers, one of which is delay optimal. The first two are $K _ { 1 } , K _ { 2 }$ as before and the third controller, $K _ { 3 } ,$ is LQF. Notice that $K _ { 1 } , K _ { 2 }$ are both queue length-agnostic, meaning they could attempt to serve empty queues as well. LQF, on the other hand, always and only serves nonempty queues. Hence, in this case the optimal policy is attained at one of the corner points, i.e., [0, 0, 1]. The plot shows the PG algorithm converging to the correct point on the simplex.
