We now argue what can happen till the ball $\boldsymbol { B } _ { s ^ { * } }$ is reached. The two limiting cases, when only the critic succeeds or η is involved, are clear from the reaching time $T ^ { * }$ . That is, $B _ { s }$ ∗ is reached within $T ^ { * }$ steps. We need thus to argue about the mixed case. It is easy to see that the worst case is when per every critic success, there is $T ^ { * } - 1$ invocations of $\eta$ until $\boldsymbol { B } _ { s ^ { * } }$ is “almost” reached, but not quite, followed by another critic success and so on. Thus, the overall reaching time of $\boldsymbol { B } _ { s ^ { * } }$ ∗ under Algorithm 3 is

$$T ^ {*} (T ^ {*} - 1). \tag {48}$$

Remark 13: Since the number of invocations of $\eta$ is not greater than $T ^ { * }$ till the $\boldsymbol { B } _ { s ^ { * } }$ is reached, the critic ${ \hat { J } } ^ { \circ }$ is effectively a multi-step Lyapunov function, i. e., ${ \hat { J } } ^ { \circ }$ is nonincreasing and

$$\forall k \in \mathbb {N} _ {0} \hat {J} _ {k + T ^ {*}} ^ {\circ} - \hat {J} _ {k} ^ {\circ} < 0.$$

Remark 14: One may ask why not to always use Algorithm 3 if it lifts the requirement on the knowledge of a Lyapunov function. The answer is that the reaching time of Algorithm 3 is much more conservative than that of realizations of CALF that do use a Lyapunov function like Algorithm 2. In fact, there are classes of systems for which Lyapunov functions can be effectively constructed. For instance, the physical energy can be sometimes be used for a Lyapunov function candidate. Furthermore, there is systematic procedures like backstepping which help extend a Lyapunov function to higher dimensions etc. Therefore, it is recommended to use a CALF realization like Algorithm 2 when a Lyapunov function is known, and a realization like Algorithm 3 otherwise.
