Figure 6: Dynamics of the IEEE 39-bus network under the proposed RL-based controller with (top) and without (bottom) Lipschitz regularization. The frequency measurement noise is uniformly randomly generated over [−0.05, 0.05] Hz. The parameter ρ is set as 500.

[4] L. Guo, C. Zhao, and S. H. Low. Graph Laplacian spectrum and primary frequency regulation. In IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, pages 158–165, Miami, FL, December 2018.   
[5] Y. Zhang and J. Cort´es. Distributed transient frequency control for power networks with stability and performance guarantees. Automatica, 105:274–285, 2019.   
[6] Y. Zhang and J. Cort´es. Distributed bilayered control for transient frequency safety and system stability in power grids. IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, 7(3):1476–1488, 2020.   
[7] Y. Zhang and J. Cort´es. Model predictive control for transient frequency regulation of power networks. Automatica, 123:109335, 2021.   
[8] X. Chen, G. Qu, Y. Tang, S. H. Low, and N. Li. Reinforcement learning for selective key applications in power systems: Recent advances and future challenges. IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 13(4):2935–2958, 2022.   
[9] W. Cui, Y. Jiang, and B. Zhang. Reinforcement learning for optimal primary frequency control: A Lyapunov approach. IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 38(2):1676-1688, 2022.   
[10] W. Cui and B. Zhang. Lyapunov-regularized reinforcement learning for power system transient stability. IEEE Control Systems Letters, 6:974–979, 2021.   
[11] W. Cui, J. Li, and B. Zhang. Decentralized safe reinforcement learning for inverter-based voltage control. Electric Power Systems Research, 211:108609, 2022.   
[12] Y. Shi, G. Qu, S. H. Low, A. Anandkumar, and A. Wierman. Stability constrained reinforcement learning for real-time voltage control. In American Control Conference, pages 2715–2721, Atlanta, GA, June 2022.   
[13] Y. Jiang, W. Cui, B. Zhang, and J. Cort´es. Stable reinforcement learning for optimal frequency control: A distributed averagingbased integral approach. IEEE Open Journal of Control Systems, 1:194–209, 2022.   
[14] D. Tabas and B. Zhang. Computationally efficient safe reinforcement learning for power systems. In American Control Conference, pages 3303–3310, Atlanta, GA, June 2022.   
[15] T. L. Vu, S. Mukherjee, R. Huang, and Q. Huang. Barrier function-based safe reinforcement learning for emergency control of power systems. In IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, pages 3652–3657, Austin, TX, December 2021.   
[16] T. L. Vu, S. Mukherjee, T. Yin, R. Huang, J. Tan, and
