# REFERENCES

[1] ENTSO-E, “Ten year network development plan 2020: Completing the map - power system needs in 2030 and 2040,” 2021.   
[2] ENTSO-E, “Ten year network development plan 2020: Scenario report,” 2020.   
[3] D. Mayorga Gonzalez, L. Robitzky, U. Hager, C. Rehtanz, and J. Myrzik, ¨ “Dynamic behaviour of distribution networks with tso-dso interconnection power flow control,” system, vol. 15, no. 16, p. 4, 2017.   
[4] D. Mayorga Gonzalez, J. Hachenberger, J. Hinker, F. Rewald, U. Hager, ¨ C. Rehtanz, and J. Myrzik, “Determination of the time-dependent flexibility of active distribution networks to control their tso-dso interconnection power flow,” in 2018 Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC), 2018, pp. 1–8.   
[5] J. Zwartscholten, D. Mayorga Gonzalez, C. Rehtanz, and J. Myrzik, “Hierarchical distribution network control scheme for power flow regulation at the interconnection points between several voltage levels,” in 2018 IEEE 7th International Conference on Power and Energy (PECon). IEEE, 2018, pp. 221–226.   
[6] L. Robitzky, D. Mayorga Gonzalez, C. Kittl, C. Strunck, J. Zwartscholten, S. Muller, U. Hager, J. Myrzik, and C. Rehtanz, “Impact of active distribution networks on voltage stability of electric power systems,” in 2017 IREP Bulk Power Systems Dynamics and Control Symposium, 2017, pp. 1–10.   
[7] M. Greve, T. Noll, U. Hager, and C. Rehtanz, “Simulation framework ¨ for vertical provision of ancillary services,” in 23rd International Conference on Electricity Distribution (CIRED), 2015, pp. 1–5.   
[8] L. Robitzky, U. Hager, and C. Rehtanz, “Modelling of active distribution ¨ networks and its impact on the performance of emergency controls,” in 2018 Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC), 2018, pp. 1–7.   
[9] O. Stanojev, J. Russli-Kueh, U. Markovic, P. Aristidou, and G. Hug, ¨ “Primary frequency control provision by distributed energy resources in active distribution networks,” in 2021 IEEE Madrid PowerTech, 2021, pp. 1–6.   
[10] G. Valverde and T. Van Cutsem, “Model predictive control of voltages in active distribution networks,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 2152–2161, 2013.   
[11] A. Saint-Pierre and P. Mancarella, “Active distribution system management: A dual-horizon scheduling framework for dso/tso interface under uncertainty,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 2186– 2197, 2017.
