Global convergence of policy gradient methods for the Linear Quadratic Regulator.
In Proc.
of the 35th Int.
Conference on Machine Learning, 2018.
[14] J.
Garc´ıa and F.
Fernandez.
A comprehensive survey on safe reinforce- ´ ment learning.
J.
Mach.
Learn.
Res., 16(42):1437–1480, 2015.
[15] H.
Jiang, H.
Zhang, Y.
Luo, and J.
Han.
Neural-network-based robust control schemes for nonlinear multiplayer systems with uncertainties via adaptive dynamic programming.
IEEE Trans.
Syst.
Man Cyb., 49(3):579–588, 2019.
[16] M.
Jin and J.
Lavaei.
Stability-certified reinforcement learning: A control-theoretic perspective.
IEEE Access, 8, 2020.
[17] Y.
Kim and J.
M.
Lee.
Model-based reinforcement learning for nonlinear optimal control with practical asymptotic stability guarantees.
AIChE, 66(10):e16544, 2020.
[18] J.
Kohler, R.
Soloperto, M.
M ¨ uller, and F.
Allg ¨ ower.
A computationally ¨ efficient robust model predictive control framework for uncertain nonlinear systems.
IEEE Trans.
Automat.
Control, 66(2):794–801, 2021.
[19] T.
Koller, F.
Berkenkamp, M.
Turchetta, and A.
Kause.
Learning-based model predictive control for safe exploration.
In Proc.
of the 57th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2018.
[20] V.
R.
Konda and J.
N.
Tsitsiklis.
On actor-critic algorhtms.
SIAM J.
Control Optim., 42(4):1143–1166, 2003.
[21] R.
M.
Kretchmar, P.
M.
Young, C.
W.
Anderson, D.
C.
Hittle, M.
L.
Anderson, and C.
C.
Delnero.
Robust reinforcement learning control with static and dynamic stability.
Int.
J.
Robust Nonlin.
Control, 11(15):1469–1500, 2001.
[22] M.
Krstic, I.
Kanellakopoulos, and Kokotovi ´ c.´ Nonlinear and Adaptive Control Design.
Wiley-Interscience, 1st edition, 1995.
[23] M.
Krstic and P.
V.
Kokotovi ´ c.
Control lyapunov functions for adaptive ´ nonlinear stabilization.
Syst.
Control Lett., 26(1):17–23, 1995.
[24] F.
L.
Lewis and D.
Vrabie.
Reinforcement learning and adaptive dynamic programming for feedback control.
IEEE Circuits Syst.
Mag., 9(3):32– 50, 2009.
[25] D.
Liberzon.
Calculus of Variations and Optimal Control Theory: A Concise Introduction.
Princton University Press, 2011.
