[26] D.
Liu, D.
Wang, D.
Zhao, Q.
Wei, and N.
Jin.
Neural-network-based optimal control for a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems using globalized dual heuristic programming.
IEEE Trans.
Automat.
Sc.
and Eng., 9(3):628–634, 2012.
[27] D.
Liu and Q.
Wei.
Policy iteration adaptive dynamic programming algorithm for discrete-time nonlinear systems.
IEEE Trans.
Neural Netw.
Learn.
Syst., 25(3):621–634, 2014.
[28] B.
T.
Lopez and J.-J.
E.
Slotine.
Adaptive variants of optimal feedback policies.
Available at arXiv:2104.02709 [eess.SY], 2021.
[29] B.
Luo, D.
Liu, H.-N.
Wu, D.
Wang, and F.
L.
Lewis.
Policy gradient adaptive dynamic programming for data-based optimal control.
IEEE Trans.
on Cyb., 47(10):3341–3354, 2017.
[30] S.
Mahmud, S.
A.
Nivison, Z.
I.
Bell, and R.
Kamalapurkar.
Safe modelbased reinforcement learning for systems with parametric uncertainties.
In Frontiers in Robotics and AI, volume 8.
2021.
[31] H.
Modares, F.
L.
Lewis, and M.-B.
Naghibi-Sistani.
Adaptive optimal control of unknown constrained-input systems using policy iteration and neural networks.
IEEE Trans.
Neural Netw.
Learn.
Syst., 24(10):1513– 1525, 2013.
[32] H.
Modares, F.
L.
Lewis, and M.-B.
Naghibi-Sistani.
Integral reinforcement learning and experience replay for adaptive optimal control of partially-unknown constrained-input continuous-time systems.
Automatica, 50(1):193–202, 2014.
[33] C.
Mu, D.
Wang, and H.
He.
Novel iterative neural dynamic programming for data-based approximate optimal control design.
Automatica, 81:240–252, 2017.
[34] T.
Nakakuki, T.
Shen, and K.
Tamura.
Adaptive control approach to uncertain longitudinal tire slip in traction control of vehicles.
Asian J.
Control, 10(1):67–73, 2008.
[35] J.
Nubert, J.
Kohler, V.
Berenz, F.
Allg ¨ ower, and S.
Trimpe.
Safe and ¨ fast tracking on a robot manipulator: Robust mpc and neural network control.
IEEE Robotics Automat.
Lett., 5(2):3050–3057, 2020.
[36] W.
B.
Powell.
Approximate Dynamic Programming - Solving the Curses of Dimensionality.
John Wiley & Sons, 2007.
[37] S..
M.
Richards, F.
Berkenkamp, and A.
Kause.
The Lyapunov neural network: Adaptive stability certification for safe learning of dynamical systems.
In Proc.
of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, 2018.
[38] S.
Sastry and M.
Bodson.
Adaptive Control: Stability, Convergence and Robustness.
Dover Publication Inc., 2011.
[39] D.
Silver, G.
