[23] X.
Wang and M.
Lemmon, “On event design in event-triggered feedback systems,” Automatica, vol.
47, no.
10, pp.
2319–2322, 2011.
[24] M.
M.
Jr., A.
Anta, and P.
Tabuada, “An ISS self-triggered implementation of linear controllers,” Automatica, vol.
46, no.
8, pp.
1310–1314, 2010.
[25] T.
Liu and Z.-P.
Jiang, “Event-based control of nonlinear systems with partial state and output feedback,” Automatica, vol.
53, pp.
10–22, 2015.
[26] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
3, pp.
909–924, 2019.
[27] A.
Selivanov and E.
Fridman, “Event-triggered $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control: A switching approach,” IEEE Trans.
on Aut.
Control, vol.
61, no.
10, pp.
3221–3226, 2015.
[28] K.
Scheres, R.
Postoyan, and W.P.M.H.
Heemels, “Event-triggered control in presence of measurement noise: A space-regularization approach,” in 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Austin: U.S.A., 2020, pp.
6234–6239.
[30] J.
Berberich, S.
Wildhagen, M.
Hertneck, and F.
Allgower, “Data- ¨ driven analysis and control of continuous-time systems under aperiodic sampling,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.09221, 2021.
[31] V.
Lopez and M.
Muller, “On a continuous-time version of Willems’¨ lemma,” arXiv:2203.03702, 2022.
[32] J.
Hespanha, Linear systems theory.
Princeton university press, 2018.
[33] H.
van Waarde, J.
Eising, H.
Trentelman, and K.
Canlibel, “Data informativity: a new perspective on data-driven analysis and control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
11, pp.
4753– 4768, 2020.
[34] H.
van Waarde, K.
Camlibel, and M.
Mesbahi, “From noisy data to feedback controllers: Non-conservative design via a matrix S-lemma,” IEEE Trans.
on Aut.
Control, vol.
67, no.
1, pp.
162 – 175, 2021.
[35] R.
Postoyan, R.
Sanfelice, and M.
Heemels, “Explaining the ‘mystery’ of periodicity in inter-transmission times in two-dimensional eventtriggered controlled system,” IEEE Trans.
on Automatic Control, 2022.
[36] J.
Cortes, “Discontinuous dynamical systems: A tutorial on solutions, ´ nonsmooth analysis, and stability,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, vol.
28, pp.
36–73, 2008.
[37] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Low-complexity learning of linear quadratic regulators from noisy data,” Automatica, vol.
128, p.
109548, 2021.
[38] C.
D.
Persis, M.
Rotulo, and P.
