# REFERENCES

[1] K. Arz ˚ en, “A simple event-based PID controller,” in ´ Proc. of the IFAC World Congress, Beijing, China, vol. 18, 1999, pp. 423–428.   
[2] K. Astr:om and B. Bernhardsson, “Comparison of Riemann and Lebesgue sampling for first order stochastic systems,” in IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Las Vegas, U.S.A., 2002, pp. 2011–2016.

[3] P.
Tabuada, “Event-triggered real-time scheduling of stabilizing control tasks,” IEEE Trans.
on Automatic Control, vol.
52, pp.
1680–1685, 2007.
[4] W.
Heemels, K.
Johansson, and P.
Tabuada, “An introduction to eventtriggered and self-triggered control,” Proc.
of the 51th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Maui, Hawaii USA, 2012.
[5] R.
Postoyan, P.
Tabuada, D.
Nesiˇ c, and A.
Anta, “A framework for the ´ event-triggered stabilization of nonlinear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
60, pp.
982–996, 2014.
[6] M.
Safonov and T.
Tsao, “The unfalsified control concept: a direct path from experiment to controller,” in Feedback control, nonlinear systems and complexity, ser.
Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences, B.
Francis and A.
Tannenbaum, Eds.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1995, pp.
196–214.
[7] H.
Hjalmarsson, M.
Gevers, S.
Gunnarsson, and O.
Lequin, “Iterative feedback tuning: theory and applications,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, vol.
18, pp.
26–41, 1998.
[8] M.
Campi, A.
Lecchini, and S.
Savaresi, “Virtual reference feedback tuning: a direct method for the design of feedback controllers,” Automatica, vol.
38, pp.
1337–1346, 2002.
[9] M.
Fliess and C.
Join, “Model-free control,” International Journal of Control, vol.
86, no.
12, pp.
2228–2252, 2013.
[10] M.
Sznaier, “Control oriented learning in the era of big data,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
5, no.
6, pp.
1855–1867, 2020.
[11] W.
Liu, J.
Sun, G.
Wang, F.
Bullo, and J.
Chen, “Datadriven self-triggered control via trajectory prediction,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.08596, 2022.
[12] L.A.Q.
Cordovil Jr, P.H.S.
Coutinho, I.
Bessa, M.L.C.
Peixoto, and R.M.
Palhares, “Learning event-triggered control based on evolving data-driven fuzzy granular models,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
32, no.
5, pp.
2805–2827, 2022.
[13] V.
Digge and R.
Pasumarthy, “Data-driven event-triggered control for discrete-time LTI systems,” in Eur.
Control Conf., London: U.K., 2022.
[14] X.
Wang, J.
Berberich, J.
Sun, G.
Wang, F.
Allgower, and J.
Chen, ¨ “Data-driven control of event- and self-triggered discrete-time systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.08019, 2022.
[15] W.-L.
Qi, K.-Z.
Liu, R.
Wang, and X.-M.
Sun, “Data-driven L2-stability analysis for dynamic event-triggered networked control systems: A hybrid system approach,” IEEE Trans.
on Ind.
