# REFERENCES

[1] S.
Adam, L.
Busoniu, and R.
Babuska.
Experience replay for real-time reinforcement learning control.
IEEE Trans.
Syst., Man, and Cyb., Part C (Applications and Reviews), 42(2):201–212, 2012.
[2] A.
D.
Ames, J.
W.
Grizzle, and P.
Tabuada.
Control barrier function based quadratic programs with application to adaptive cruise control.
In Proc.
of the 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2014.
[3] A.
G.
Barto.
Reinforcement learning in the real world.
In Proc.
of the IEEE Int.
Joint Conference on Neural Networks, 2004.
[4] A.
G.
Barto, S.
J.
Bradtke, and S.
Singh.
Real-time learning and control using asynchronous dynamic programming.
Technical Report 91-57, Computer Science Dep., University of Massachusetts, 1991.
[5] A.
G.
Barto, S.
J.
Bradtke, and S.
P.
Singh.
Learning to act using real-time dynamic programming.
Artificial Intelligence, 72(1-2):81–138, 1995.
[6] F.
Berkenkamp, M.
Turchetta, A.
P.
Schoellig, and A.
Krause.
Safe model-based reinforcement learning with stability guarantees.
In Proc.
of Neural Information Processing Systems, 2017.
[7] D.
P.
Bertsekas.
Value and policy iteration in optimal control and adaptive dynamic programming.
IEEE Trans.
Neural Netw.
Learn.
Syst., 28(3):500 – 509, 2017.
[8] S.
Bhasin, R.
Kamalapurkar, M.
Johnson, K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, F.
L.
Lewis, and W.
E.
Dixon.
A novel actor-critic-identifier architecture for approximate optimal control of uncertain nonlinear systems.
Automatica, 49(1):82–92, 2013.
[9] P.
Braun, L.
Grune, and C.
M.
Kellett.
Feedback design using ¨ nonsmooth control Lyapunov functions: A numerical case study for the nonholonomic integrator.
In Proc.
of the 56th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2017.
[10] F.
Clarke, Y.
Ledyaev, E.
Sontag, and A.
Subbotin.
Asymptotic controllability implies feedback stabilization.
IEEE Trans.
Automat.
Control, 42(10):1394–1407, 1997.
[11] T.
Dierks and S.
Jagannathan.
Online optimal control of affine nonlinear discrete-time systems with unknown internal dynamics by using timebased policy update.
IEEE Trans.
Neural Netw.
Learn.
Syst., 23(7):1118– 1129, 2012.
[12] T.
Dierks, B.
T.
Thumati, and S.
Jagannathan.
Optimal control of unknown affine nonlinear discrete-time systems using offline-trained neural networks with proof of convergence.
Neural Networks, 22(5- 6):851–860, 2009.
[13] M.
Fazel, R.
Ge, S.
Kakade, and M.
Mesbahi.
