[23] W.
Gao, Z.
P.
Jiang, F.
L.
Lewis, and Y.
Wang, “Cooperative optimal output regulation of multi-agent systems using adaptive dynamic programming,” in Proceedings of the American Control Conference, Seattle, WA, 2017, pp.
2674–2679.
[24] W.
Gao, Z.-P.
Jiang, F.
L.
Lewis, and Y.
Wang, “Leader-to-formation stability of multiagent systems: An adaptive optimal control approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
63, no.
10, pp.
3581– 3587, 2018.
[25] R.
S.
Sutton and A.
G.
Barto, Reinforcement learning: An introduction.
MIT press, Cambridge, 2018.
[26] X.
Gao, J.
Si, Y.
Wen, M.
Li, and H.
Huang, “Reinforcement learning control of robotic knee with human-in-the-loop by flexible policy iteration,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 2021.
[27] S.
He, H.
Fang, M.
Zhang, F.
Liu, and Z.
Ding, “Adaptive optimal control for a class of nonlinear systems: the online policy iteration approach,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, vol.
31, no.
2, pp.
549–558, 2019.
[28] Y.
Jiang and Z.
P.
Jiang, Robust Adaptive Dynamic Programming.
Hoboken.
NJ: Wiley, 2017.
[29] R.
Kamalapurkar, P.
Walters, J.
Rosenfeld, and W.
Dixon, Reinforcement learning for optimal feedback control.
Springer, Cham, 2018.
[30] K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, F.
L.
Lewis, and G.
R.
Hudas, “Multi-agent differential graphical games: Online adaptive learning solution for synchronization with optimality,” Automatica, vol.
48, no.
8, pp.
1598– 1611, 2012.
[31] Q.
Wei, H.
Li, X.
Yang, and H.
He, “Continuous-time distributed policy iteration for multicontroller nonlinear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
51, no.
5, pp.
2372–2383, 2020.
[32] Y.
Yang, B.
Kiumarsi, H.
Modares, and C.
Xu, “Model-free λ- policy iteration for discrete-time linear quadratic regulation,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, pp.
1–15, 2021.
[33] T.
Bian and Z.
P.
Jiang, “Value iteration and adaptive dynamic programming for data-driven adaptive optimal control design,” Automatica, vol.
71, pp.
348–360, 2016.
[34] T.
Bian and Z.-P.
Jiang, “Reinforcement learning and adaptive optimal control for continuous-time nonlinear systems: A value iteration approach,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, pp.
1–10, 2021.
[35] A.
