[32] Hung, J.Y., Gao, W., Hung, J.C., 1993. Variable Structure control: A Survey. IEEE Transaction on Industrial Electronics. 40, 1, 2-22.   
[33] DeCarlo, R.A., Zak, S.H., Matthews, G.P., 1998. Variable Structure control of nonlinear multivariable systems: a tutorial. Invited Paper, Proceedings of the IEEE. 76, 3.   
[34] Utkin, V.I., 1992. Sliding modes in Control and Optimization. Springer Verlag.   
[35] Edwards, D., Spurgeon, S.K., 1998. Sliding Mode Control: Theory and application. Taylor & Francis, CRC press.   
[36] Shtessel, Y., Edwards, C., Fridman, L., Levant, A., 2014. Sliding mode Control and Observation. Birkhauser, Springer.   
[37] Slotine, J.J.E., Sastry, S.S., 1997. Tracking control of nonlinear systems using sliding surfaces, with applications to robot manipulators. International Journal of Control. 38, 465-492.   
[38] Fidman, L., 1999. The Problem of chattering: An averaging approach. Research article. Springer. 247, 363-386.   
[39] Young, K.D., Ozguner, U., Utkin, V.I., 1999. A control engineers guide to sliding mode control. IEEE Trans. Contr. Syst. Tech. 7, 328-342.   
[40] Levant, A., 1993. Sliding order and Sliding accuracy in sliding mode control. International Journal of Control. 58, 1247-1263.   
[41] Ramirez, H.S., 1992. On the sliding mode control of nonlinear systems. System & Control Letters. 19, 303-312.   
[42] Ouyang, P.R., Acob, J., Pano, V., 2014. PD with sliding mode control for trajectory tracking of robotic system. Robotics and Computer Integrated manufacturing. 30, 189-200.   
[43] Pisano, A., Usai, E., 2011. Sliding mode control: A survey with application in math. Mathematics and Comp. in Simul. Elsevier. 81, 954-979.   
[44] Bartolini, G., Pisano, A., Punta, E., Usai, E., 2003. A survey of applications of second order sliding mode control to mechanical systems. International Journal of Control. 76, 875-892.   
[45] Clarke, F.H., Ledyaev, Y.S., Stern, R.J., 1998. Asymptotic Stability and Smooth Lyapunov Functions. Journal of differential equations. 149, 69-114.   
[46] Ahmadi, A.A., 2008. Non-monotonic Lyapunov functions for stability of nonlinear and switched systems: Theory and computation. M.S Thesis, MIT.
