# References

[1] F. Aghili, “Adaptive control of manipulators forming closed kinematic chain with inaccurate kinematic model,” IEEE/ASME Trans. on Mechatronics, vol. 18, no. 5, pp. 1544–1554, October 2013.   
[2] A. Pr´evot, R. Gourdeau, F. Aghili, and J. C. Piedboeuf, “Cooperative control of manipulators based on impedance,” in Int. Symp. On Robotcis & Automation, Mexico, 2004.

[3] I.-W.
Park, B.-J.
Lee, S.-H.
Cho, Y.-D.
Hong, and J.-H.
Kim, “Laser-based kinematic calibration of robot manipulator using differential kinematics,” Mechatronics, IEEE/ASME Transactions on, vol.
PP, no.
99, pp.
1–9, 2011.
[4] C.
O.
Alford and S.
M.
Belyen, “Coordinated control of two robot arms,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Atalnta, GA, 1984, pp.
468–473.
[5] T.
Tarn, A.
Bejczy, and X.
Yuan, “Control of two coordinated robots,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Apr 1986, pp.
1193–1212.
[6] F.
Aghili and K.
Parsa, “A reconfigurable robot with lockable cylindrical joints,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
25, no.
4, pp.
785–797, August 2009.
[7] J.
M.
Tao, J.
S.
Luh, and Y.
F.
Zheng, “Compliant coordination control of two moving industrial robots,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Apr 1987, pp.
1407– 1412.
[8] S.
Hayati, “Hybrid position/force control of multiarm cooperating robots,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Apr 1986, pp.
82–89.
[9] Y.
Nakamura, K.
Nagai, and T.
Yoshikawa, “Dynamics and stability in coordination of multiple robotic mechanism,” Int.
Journal of Robotics Research, vol.
8, no.
2, Apr 1989.
[10] F.
Aghili, “Robust impedance-matching of manipulators interacting with uncertain environments: Application to task verification of the space station’s dexterous manipulator,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol.
24, no.
4, pp.
1565–1576, Aug 2019.
[11] B.
Yao, W.
Gao, S.
Chan, and M.
Cheng, “Vsc coordinated control of two manipulator arms in the presence of environmental constraints,” Automatic Control, IEEE Transactions on, vol.
37, no.
11, pp.
1806–1812, nov.
1992.
[12] S.
Arimoto, F.
Miyazaki, and S.
Kawamura, “Cooperative motion control of multiple robot arms or fingers,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Osaka, Japan, March 1987, pp.
1407–1412.
[13] P.
Pagilla and M.
Tomizuka, “Hybrid force-motion control of two arms carrying an object,” in IEEE American Control Conf, 1994, pp.
195–199.
[14] F.
Aghili and M.
Namvar, “Adaptive control of manipulators using uncalibrated jointtorque sensing,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
22, no.
4, pp.
854–860, Aug.
2006.
[15] M.
Namvar and F.
Aghili, “Adaptive force-motion control of coordinated robots interacting with geometrically unknown environments,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
21, no.
4, pp.
678–694, Aug.
2005.
[16] F.
