Aghili, “A unified approach for control of redundant mechanical systems under equality and inequality constraints,” in Proc.
of IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Taipei, Taiwan, Oct.
2010, pp.
4849–4854.

[30] J.
H.
Jean and L.
C.
Fu, “An adaptive control scheme for coordinated multimanipulator systems,” IEEE Trans.
Robotics and Automation, vol.
9, no.
2, pp.
226–231, 1993.
[31] F.
Aghili, “Dynamics and control of constrained mechanical systems in terms of reduced quasi-velocities,” in IEEE Int.
Conference on Robotics & Automation, Pasadena, CA, May 2008, pp.
1225–1232.
[32] W.
Gueaieb, F.
Karray, and S.
Al-Sharhan, “A robust hybrid intelligent position/force control scheme for cooperative manipulators,” Mechatronics, IEEE/ASME Transactions on, vol.
12, no.
2, pp.
109–125, april 2007.
[33] F.
Aghili, “Impedance control of manipulators carrying a heavy payload,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots & Systems, St.
Louis, USA, October 2009, pp.
3410–3415.
[34] “Self-tuning cooperative control of manipulators with position and orientation uncertainties in the closed-kinematic loop,” in Proc.
of IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), San Francisco, CA, Sep.
2011, pp.
4187–4193.
[35] G.
Wahba, “A least-squares estimate of satellite attitude,” SIAM Review, vol.
7, no.
3, p.
409, 1965.
[36] G.
M.
Lerner, Spacecraft Attitude Determination and Control.
The Netherlands: Kluwr Academic Publishers, 1978, ch.
q Method, pp.
426–428.
[37] M.
D.
Shuster and S.
D.
Oh, “Three-axis attitude determination from vector observation,” AIAA Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
4, no.
1, pp.
70–77, 1981.
[38] F.
L.
Markley and D.
Mortari, “Quaternion attitude estimation using vector observations,” Journal of the Astronautical Sciences, vol.
44, no.
2/3, pp.
359–380, 2000.
[39] J.
L.
Crassidid, F.
L.
Markley, and Y.
Cheng, “Survey of nonlinear attitude estimation methods,” AIAA Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
30, no.
1, pp.
12–28, 2007.
[40] J.-J.
Slotine and W.
Li, Applied Nonlinear Control, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1991.
[41] C.
Canudas de Wit, B.
Siciliano, and G.
Bastin, Eds., Theory of Robot Control.
London, Great Britain: Springer, 1996.
[42] F.
Aghili, “A unified approach for inverse and direct dynamics of constrained multibody systems based on linear projection operator: Applications to control and simulation,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
21, no.
5, pp.
834–849, Oct.
2005.
[43] F.
Aghili and J.-C.
