# REFERENCES

[1] D. Wen L. Li and D. Yao. A survey of traffic control with vehicular communications. IEEE Trans. on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 15(1):pp. 425–432, 2013.   
[2] Cong Gao, Geng Wang, Weisong Shi, Zhongmin Wang, and Yanping Chen. Autonomous driving security: State of the art and challenges. IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 9(10):7572–7595, 2022.   
[3] D. de Waard, C. Dijksterhuis, and KA. Brookhuis. Merging into heavy motorway traffic by young and elderly drivers. Accident Analysis & Prevention, 41(3):pp. 588–597, 2009.   
[4] T. Lomax D. Schrank, B. Eisele and J. Bak. 2015 urban mobility scorecard. 2015.   
[5] Ilya Kavalchuk, A Kolbasov, K Karpukhin, A Terenchenko, et al. The performance assessment of low-cost air pollution sensor in city and the prospect of the autonomous vehicle for air pollution reduction. In IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, volume 819, page 012018. IOP Publishing, 2020.   
[6] Vincent A.C. van den Berg and Erik T. Verhoef. Autonomous cars and dynamic bottleneck congestion: The effects on capacity, value of time and preference heterogeneity. Transportation Research Part B: Methodological, 94:43–60, 2016.   
[7] J. Rios-Torres and A. A. Malikopoulos. A survey on the coordination of connected and automated vehicles at intersections and merging at highway on-ramps. IEEE Trans. on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 18(5):pp. 1066–1077, 2017.   
[8] H. Xu, S. Feng, Y. Zhang, and L. Li. A grouping-based cooperative driving strategy for cavs merging problems. IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology, 68(6):pp. 6125–6136, 2019.
