# REFERENCES

[1] C.
Liu and Z.
Gong, “Optimal control of switched systems arising in fermentation processes,” 2014.
[2] J.
T.
Betts, Practical Methods for Optimal Control and Estimation Using Nonlinear Programming, Second Edition, 2nd ed.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2010.
[Online].
Available: https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/1.9780898718577   
[3] H.-W.
Park, P.
Wensing, and S.
Kim, “High-speed bounding with the mit cheetah 2: Control design and experiments,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol.
36, p.
027836491769424, 03 2017.
[4] M.
Egerstedt, “Behavior based robotics using hybrid automata,” in Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control, N.
Lynch and B.
H.
Krogh, Eds.
Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2000, pp.
103– 116.
[5] T.
Mehta, D.
Yeung, E.
Verriest, and M.
Egerstedt, “Optimal control of multi-dimensional, hybrid ice-skater model,” 08 2007, pp.
2787 – 2792.
[6] M.
S.
Shaikh and P.
E.
Caines, “On relationships between weierstrasserdmannn corner condition, snell’s law and the hybrid minimum principle,” in 2007 International Bhurban Conference on Applied Sciences Technology, 2007, pp.
117–122.
[7] D.
Liberzon, “Switched systems : Stability analysis and control synthesis,” 2013.
[8] J.
Daafouz, P.
Riedinger, and C.
Iung, “Stability analysis and control synthesis for switched systems: a switched lyapunov function approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
47, no.
11, pp.
1883–1887, 2002.
[9] F.
Zhu and P.
Antsaklis, “Optimal control of hybrid switched systems: A brief survey,” Discrete Event Dynamic Systems, vol.
25, 09 2014.
[10] B.
Stellato, S.
Ober-Blobaum, and P.
J.
Goulart, “Optimal control¨ of switching times in switched linear systems,” in 2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2016, pp.
7228–7233.
[11] E.
I.
Verriest, “Multi-dimensional multi-mode systems: Structure and optimal control,” in 49th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2010, pp.
7021–7026.
[12] F.
Christophersen, “Optimal control of constrained piecewise affine systems,” Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences, vol.
359, 01 2007.
[13] M.
S.
Shaikh and P.
E.
Caines, “On the hybrid optimal control problem: Theory and algorithms,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
52, no.
9, pp.
1587–1603, 2007.
[14] X.
Xu and P.
