Aghili, “Robust impedance control of manipulators carrying heavy payload,” ASME Journal of Dynamic Systems, Measurements, and Control, vol.
132, September 2010.

[17] M.
Namvar and F.
Aghili, “Adaptive control of cooperative robots interacting with a geometrically unknown environment,” in IEEE Int.
Conference on Robotics & Automation, New Orleans, USA, 2004.
[18] M.
H.
Raibert and J.
J.
Craig, “Hybrid position/force control of manipulators,” ASME Journal of Dynamic Systems, Measurement, and Control, vol.
102, pp.
126–133, Jun.
1981.
[19] R.
C.
Bonitz and T.
C.
Hsia, “Internal force-based impedance control for cooperating manipulators,” Robotics and Automation, IEEE Transactions on, vol.
12, no.
1, pp.
78– 89, feb.
1996.
[20] F.
Aghili, “Projection-based modeling and control of mechanical systems using nonminimum set of coordinates,” in Proc.
of IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Hamburg, Germany, Sep.
2015, pp.
3164–3169.
[21] F.
Caccavale, P.
Chiacchio, A.
Mario, and L.
Villani, “Six-DOF impedance control of dualarm coopertive manipulators,” IEEE/ASME Trans.
on Mechatronics, vol.
13, no.
5, pp.
576–586, 2008.
[22] F.
Aghili, “Projection-based control of parallel mechanisms,” ASME Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, vol.
6, no.
3, July 2011.
[23] T.
Arai, H.
Osumi, T.
Fukuoka, and K.
Moriyama, “A cooperative assembly system using two manipulators with precise positioning devices,” CIRP Annals – Manufaturing Technology, vol.
44, no.
1, pp.
23–26, 1995.
[24] M.
Walker, D.
Kim, and J.
Dionise, “Adaptive coordinated control of two manipulator arms,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Scottsdale, AZ, May 1989, pp.
1084–1090.
[25] Y.
Hu and A.
A.
Goldenberg, “An adaptive approach to motion and force control of multiple coordinated robot arms,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Scottsdale, AZ, May 1989, pp.
1091–1096.
[26] M.
Zribi and S.
Ahmed, “Robust adaptice control of multiple robots in cooperative motion using σ modification,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Robotics & Automation, Sacramento, CA, Apr 1991, pp.
2160–2165.
[27] F.
Aghili, “Control of redundant mechanical systems under equality and inequality constraints on both input and constraint forces,” ASME Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, vol.
6, no.
3, July 2011.
[28] D.
Sun and J.
K.
Mills, “Adaptive synchronized control for coordination of multirobot assembly tasks,” Robotics and Automation, IEEE Transactions on, vol.
18, no.
4, pp.
498 – 510, aug.
2002.
[29] F.
