Efficient and accurate estimation of lipschitz constants for deep neural networks.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 32, 2019.
Gallieri, M., Salehian, S.
S.
M., Toklu, N.
E., Quaglino, A., Masci, J., Koutník, J., and Gomez, F.
Safe interactive model-based learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.06556, 2019.

Guo, Y., Lin, W., and Chen, G.
Stability of switched systems on randomly switching durations with random interaction matrices.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 63(1):21–36, 2018.
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J.
Deep residual learning for image recognition.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pp.
770–778, 2016.
Henrion, D.
and Garulli, A.
Positive Polynomials in Control, volume 312.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2005.
Huang, S.-J.
and Huang, C.-L.
Control of an inverted pendulum using grey prediction model.
IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 36(2):452–458, 2000.
Jaeger, H.
The “echo state” approach to analysing and training recurrent neural networks-with an erratum note.
Bonn, Germany: German National Research Center for Information Technology GMD Technical Report, 148(34):13, 2001.
Jaeger, H.
Echo state network.
Scholarpedia, 2(9):2330, 2007.
Jaeger, H.
and Haas, H.
Harnessing nonlinearity: Predicting chaotic systems and saving energy in wireless communication.
Science, 304(5667):78–80, 2004.
Jarvis-Wloszek, Z., Feeley, R., Tan, W., Sun, K., and Packard, A.
Some controls applications of sum of squares programming.
In 42nd IEEE International Conference on Decision and Control (IEEE Cat.
No.
03CH37475), volume 5, pp.
4676–4681.
IEEE, 2003.
Khalil, H.
K.
Nonlinear systems third edition.
Patience Hall, 115, 2002.
Kolter, J.
Z.
and Manek, G.
Learning stable deep dynamics models.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 32:11128–11136, 2019.
Kushner, H.
J.
Stochastic stability and control.
Technical report, Brown Univ Providence RI, 1967.
Kuznetsov, Y.
A.
Elements of applied bifurcation theory, volume 112.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2013.
Laslo, P., Spooner, C.
J., Warmflash, A., Lancki, D.
W., Lee, H.-J., Sciammas, R., Gantner, B.
N., Dinner, A.
R., and Singh, H.
Multilineage transcriptional priming and determination of alternate hematopoietic cell fates.
Cell, 126(4):755–766, 2006.
Leong, Y.
P., Horowitz, M.
B., and Burdick, J.
W.
Linearly solvable stochastic control lyapunov functions.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 54(6):3106–3125, 2016.
Li, A., Cornelius, S.
P., Liu, Y.-Y., Wang, L., and Barabási, A.-L.
The fundamental advantages of temporal networks.
Science, 358(6366):1042–1046, 2017.
Liptser, R.
and Shiryayev, A.
N.
