[22] ——, “Mean field stochastic games with binary actions: Stationary threshold policies,” in 2017 IEEE 56th Annual Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
27–32.
[23] S.
Adlakha, R.
Johari, and G.
Y.
Weintraub, “Equilibria of dynamic games with many players: Existence, approximation, and market structure,” Journal of Economic Theory, vol.
156, pp.
269–316, 2015.
[24] V.
DeMiguel and H.
Xu, “A Stochastic Multiple-Leader Stackelberg Model: Analysis, Computation, and Application,” https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.1080.0686, vol.
57, no.
5, pp.
1220–1235, jun 2009.
[Online].
Available: https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/opre.1080.0686   
[25] P.
Cardaliaguet, F.
Delarue, J.-M.
Lasry, and P.-L.
Lions, “The master equation and the convergence problem in mean field games,” Annals of Mathematics Studies, vol.
2019-Janua, no.
201, pp.
1–222, sep 2015.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.02505v1   
[26] D.
Vasal, A.
Sinha, and A.
Anastasopoulos, “A systematic process for evaluating structured perfect bayesian equilibria in dynamic games with asymmetric information,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2018.
[27] D.
Vasal and A.
Anastasopoulos, “Decentralized Bayesian learning in dynamic games,” in Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, 2016.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.06847   
[28] ——, “Signaling equilibria of dynamic LQG games with asymmetric information,” in Conference on Decision and Control, 2016.
[29] D.
Vasal, “Sequential Decomposition of Mean-Field Games,” in Proceedings of the American Control Conference, vol.
2020-July.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., jul 2020, pp.
5388–5393.
[30] D.
Vasal, R.
K.
Mishra, and S.
Vishwanath, “Sequential decomposition of graphon mean field games,” Proceedings of the American Control Conference, vol.
2021-May, pp.
730–736, jan 2020.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.05633v1   
[31] D.
Vasal, “Stochastic Stackelberg games,” may 2020.
[Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.01997   
[32] D.
Vasal and R.
Berry, “Master Equation for Discrete-Time Stackelberg Mean Field Games with single leader,” arxiv preprint arXiv:2201.05959v1, jan 2022.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.05959v1   
[33] A.
Nayyar, A.
Mahajan, and D.

Teneketzis, “Decentralized stochastic control with partial history sharing: A common information approach,” Automatic Control, IEEE Transactions on, vol.
58, no.
7, pp.
1644–1658, 2013.
[34] Y.-C.
Ho, “Team decision theory and information structures,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol.
68, no.
6, pp.
644–654, 1980.
[35] D.
Vasal, A.
Sinha, and A.
Anastasopoulos, “A systematic process for evaluating structured perfect bayesian equilibria in dynamic games with asymmetric information,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
1, pp.
81–96, Jan 2019.
