[8] E.
Meigs, F.
Parise, A.
Ozdaglar, and D.
Acemoglu, “Optimal dynamic information provision in traffic routing,” jan 2020.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.03232v1   
[9] S.
Adlakha, R.
Johari, and A.
Goldsmith, “Competition in Wireless Systems via Bayesian Interference Games,” Mechanisms and Games for Dynamic Spectrum Allocation, vol.
9781107034, pp.
32–56, sep 2007.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0516v1   
[10] D.
Vasal and A.
Anastasopoulos, “Decentralized Bayesian learning in dynamic games,” CoRR, vol.
abs/1607.06847, 2016.
[Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1607.06847   
[11] T.
N.
Le, V.
Subramanian, and R.
Berry, “The impact of observation and action errors on informational cascades,” in Decision and Control (CDC), 2014 IEEE 53rd Annual Conference on, Dec 2014, pp.
1917–1922.
[12] T.
Basar and G.
Olsder, Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory, 2nd Edition.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1998.
[13] J.
Filar and K.
Vrieze, Competitive Markov decision processes.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2012.
[14] E.
Maskin and J.
Tirole, “Markov perfect equilibrium: I.
observable actions,” Journal of Economic Theory, vol.
100, no.
2, pp.
191–219, 2001.
[15] M.
Huang, R.
P.
Malhamé, and P.
E.
Caines, “Large population stochastic dynamic games: closed-loop mckean-vlasov systems and the nash certainty equivalence principle,” Communications in Information & Systems, vol.
6, no.
3, pp.
221–252, 2006.
[16] J.-M.
Lasry and P.-L.
Lions, “Mean field games,” Japanese Journal of Mathematics, vol.
2, no.
1, pp.
229–260, 2007.
[17] J.-M.
Lasry, P.-L.
Lions, and O.
Guéant, “Application of mean field games to growth theory,” 2008.
[18] O.
Guéant, J.-M.
Lasry, and P.-L.
Lions, “Mean field games and applications,” in Paris-Princeton lectures on mathematical finance 2010.
Springer, 2011, pp.
205–266.
[19] J.
Subramanian and A.
Mahajan, “Reinforcement learning in stationary mean-field games,” in International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS), 2019.
[20] M.
Huang and Y.
Ma, “Mean field stochastic games: Monotone costs and threshold policies,” in 2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2016, pp.
7105–7110.
[21] ——, “Mean field stochastic games with binary action spaces and monotone costs,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.06661, 2017.
