[9] Jia Wu, Fei Yan, and Abdeljalil Abbas-Turki.
Mathematical proof of effectiveness of platoon-based traffic control at intersections.
In 16th International IEEE Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC 2013), pages 720–725.
IEEE, 2013.
[10] Rajesh Rajamani, Han-Shue Tan, Boon Kait Law, and Wei-Bin Zhang.
Demonstration of integrated longitudinal and lateral control for the operation of automated vehicles in platoons.
IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 8(4):695–708, 2000.
[11] K.
Dresner and P.
Stone.
Multiagent traffic management: a reservation-based intersection control mechanism.
In Proceedings of the Third International Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2004.
AAMAS 2004., pages 530–537, 2004.
[12] Tsz-Chiu Au and Peter Stone.
Motion planning algorithms for autonomous intersection management.
In Workshops at the Twenty-Fourth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2010.
[13] Kailong Zhang, Arnaud De La Fortelle, Dafang Zhang, and Xiao Wu.
Analysis and modeled design of one state-driven autonomous passing-through algorithm for driverless vehicles at intersections.
In 2013 IEEE 16th International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering, pages 751–757.
IEEE, 2013.
[14] J.
Rios-Torres, A.
Malikopoulos, and P.
Pisu.
Online optimal control of connected vehicles for efficient traffic flow at merging roads.
In 2015 IEEE 18th International Conf.
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, pages 2432–2437.
IEEE, 2015.
[15] W.
Xiao and C.G.
Cassandras.
Decentralized optimal merging control for connected and automated vehicles with safety constraint guarantees.
Automatica, 123:109333, 2021.
[16] Y.F Zhang and C.G.
Cassandras.
Decentralized optimal control of connected automated vehicles at signal-free intersections including comfort-constrained turns and safety guarantees.
Automatica, 109:p.
108563, 11 2019.
[17] Carlos E Garcia, David M Prett, and Manfred Morari.
Model predictive control: Theory and practice—a survey.
Automatica, 25(3):335–348, 1989.
[18] W.
Cao, M.
Mukai, T.
Kawabe, H.
Nishira, and N.
Fujiki.
Cooperative vehicle path generation during merging using model predictive control with real-time optimization.
Control Engineering Practice, 34:98–105, 2015.
[19] W.
Xiao and C.
Belta.
Control barrier functions for systems with high relative degree.
In Proc.
