Li, “Predefined-time bipartite tracking consensus for second-order multi-agent systems with cooperative and antagonistic networks,” Journal of Control and Decision, pp.
1–13, 2022.
[28] M.
Tao, X.
Liu, S.
Shao, and J.
Cao, “Predefined-time bipartite consensus of networked euler-lagrange systems via sliding-mode control,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, 2022.
[29] Y.
Wang, Y.
Song, D.
J.
Hill, and M.
Krstic, “Prescribed-time consensus and containment control of networked multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
49, no.
4, pp.
1138–1147, 2018.
[30] D.
Meng, M.
Du, and Y.
Jia, “Interval bipartite consensus of networked agents associated with signed digraphs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
61, no.
12, pp.
3755–3770, 2016.
[31] D.
Meng, “Bipartite containment tracking of signed networks,” Automatica, vol.
79, pp.
282–289, 2017.
[32] ——, “Convergence analysis of directed signed networks via an mmatrix approach,” International Journal of Control, vol.
91, no.
4, pp.
827–847, 2018.
[33] C.
Altafini, “Consensus problems on networks with antagonistic interactions,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
58, no.
4, pp.
935–946, 2012.
[34] D.
Meng, M.
Du, and J.
Liang, “Convergence behavior analysis of directed signed networks subject to nonidentical topologies,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
2, pp.
872–879, 2020.
[35] Z.-H.
Zhu, B.
Hu, Z.-H.
Guan, D.-X.
Zhang, and T.
Li, “Observerbased bipartite containment control for singular multi-agent systems over signed digraphs,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, vol.
68, no.
1, pp.
444–457, 2020.
[36] S.
Arik and V.
Tavsanoglu, “A sufficient condition for absolute stability of a larger class of dynamical neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Fundamental Theory and Applications, vol.
47, no.
5, pp.
758–760, 2000.
[37] S.
Boyd, L.
El Ghaoui, E.
Feron, and V.
Balakrishnan, Linear matrix inequalities in system and control theory.
SIAM, 1994.
