Proof. We will show that the optimal coupling γ (which is also the monotone coupling) between α and $\beta$ is associated to a kernel that sends a to b.

Let $( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ]$ and $( q _ { i - 1 } , q _ { i } ]$ be the signature intervals for a and b respectively. From Theorem 1 we know that supp $\left. ( \gamma ) \subset \cup _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } ( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ] \times ( q _ { i - 1 } , q _ { i } ] \right.$ .

Notice that the Radon-Nikodym derivative of $a ^ { + }$ with respect to α $f _ { + } ( x )$ is equal to +1 on $( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ]$ when $z _ { i }$ is positive and 0 otherwise, and the Radon-Nikodym derivative of $a ^ { - }$ with respect to α $f _ { - } ( x )$ is equal $\mathrm { t o } + 1$ on $( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } ]$ when $z _ { i }$ is negative and 0 otherwise. Likewise, the Radon-Nikodym derivative of $b ^ { + }$ with respect to $\beta \ g _ { + } ( x )$ is equal $\mathrm { t o } + 1$ on $( q _ { i - 1 } , q _ { i } ]$ when $z _ { i }$ is positive and 0 otherwise, and the Radon-Nikodym derivative of $b ^ { - }$ with respect to $\beta \ g _ { - } ( x )$ is equal to +1 on $( q _ { i - 1 } , q _ { i } ]$ ] when $z _ { i }$ is negative and 0 otherwise.

Thus $f _ { + } ( x ) \gamma ( x , y ) = g _ { + } ( y ) \gamma ( x , y )$ and $f _ { - } ( x ) \gamma ( x , y ) = g _ { - } ( y ) \gamma ( x , y )$ , as both $f _ { \pm } ( x )$ and $g _ { \pm } ( y )$ are constant over each block $\left( p _ { i - 1 } , p _ { i } \right] \times \left( q _ { i - 1 } , q _ { i } \right]$ ] with their values depending in the same manner on the sign of $z _ { i }$ .

Letting $\gamma ^ { + } = f _ { + } ( x ) \gamma ( x , y )$ , and $\gamma ^ { - } = f _ { - } ( x ) \gamma ( x , y )$ , it is immediate that they are $c { - } \mathrm { C M }$ compatible as they are components of $\gamma$ which is optimal between α and $\beta .$ . We also have $\begin{array} { r } { \int _ { Y } d \gamma ^ { + } ( x , y ) = \int _ { Y } f _ { + } ( x ) d \gamma ( x , y ) = f _ { + } ( x ) \alpha ( x ) = a ^ { + } } \end{array}$ and likewise for $b ^ { + }$ . Similarly $\gamma ^ { - }$ will have marginals of $a ^ { - }$ and $b ^ { - }$ .

Thus from Theorem 10, we know that a and b are connected by the optimal transport kernel associated to $\gamma$ . 

We now show that if two signed measures have the same integral and mass but different signatures, then they cannot be sent to each other.

Theorem 14. Let a and b be signed measures with equal mass and integral and finite moment. Let $( z _ { i } ) _ { i = 1 } ^ { n }$ be the signature of a and $( w _ { i } ) _ { i = 1 } ^ { m }$ 1 the signature of b, and let $( z _ { i } ) \neq ( w _ { i } )$ . Then there is not an optimal transport kernel K sending a to b.
