[17] H.
Zhang, J.
Duan, Y.
Wang, and Z.
Gao, “Bipartite fixed-time output consensus of heterogeneous linear multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
51, no.
2, pp.
548–557, 2019.
[18] X.
Liu, J.
Cao, and C.
Xie, “Finite-time and fixed-time bipartite consensus of multi-agent systems under a unified discontinuous control protocol,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol.
356, no.
2, pp.
734–751, 2019.
[19] X.
Guo, H.
Ma, H.
Liang, and H.
Zhang, “Command-filter-based fixedtime bipartite containment control for a class of stochastic multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems,vol.
52, no.
6, pp.
3519–3529, 2021.
[20] Z.
Zhu, H.
Wu, Z.-H.
Guan, Y.
Chen, and X.
Zheng, “Finite-time and fixed-time bipartite containment control of cooperative-antagonistic networks: A unified framework,” 2022, https://doi.org/10.36227/techrxiv.19212888.
[21] X.
Chen, H.
Yu, and F.
Hao, “Prescribed-time event-triggered bipartite consensus of multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
52, no.
4, pp.2589–2598,2020.
[22] X.
Gong, Y.
Cui, J.
Shen, Z.
Shu, and T.
Huang, “Distributed prescribedtime interval bipartite consensus of multi-agent systems on directed graphs: Theory and experiment,” IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, vol.
8, no.
4, pp.
3099–3112, 2021.
[23] Y.
Zhao, Y.
Zhou, Y.
Liu, G.
Wen, and P.
Huang, “Fixed-time bipartite synchronization with a pre-appointed settling time over directed cooperative–antagonistic networks,” Automatica, vol.
123, p.
109301, 2021.
[24] Y.
Zhou, Y.
Liu, and Y.
Zhao, “Prescribed-time bipartite consensus formation control for general linear multi-agent systems,” in IECON 2020 The 46th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society.
IEEE, 2020, pp.
3562–3567.
[25] X.
Guo and J.
Liang, “Prescribed-time bipartite consensus for signed directed networks on time scales,” International Journal of Control, pp.
1–9, 2021.
[26] K.
Li, C.
Hua, X.
You, and C.
K.
Ahn, “Output feedback predefined-time bipartite consensus control for high-order nonlinear multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, vol.
68, no.
7, pp.
3069–3078, 2021.
[27] Y.
Ren, Z.
Chen, Y.
Ji, and Z.
