# V. CONCLUSION

The problems of PTCC, including stability, bipartite consensus, interval bipartite consensus, and bipartite containment control, for single-integrator CANs with and without external disturbances over general signed digraphs without any structure restriction have been addressed, for which a unified analysis and design framework has been provided. By using the relative states of neighboring agents, a prescribed-time control protocol with time-invariant and time-varying gains has been firstly developed to handle the PTCC problems for CANs without disturbances. Then, based on the control protocol for the disturbance-free nominal CANs, a novel prescribed-time sliding mode control protocol is developed to address the PTCC problems for CANs subject to external disturbances. In particular, it has been demonstrated that with the proposed control protocols, a CAN can reach bipartite containment (respectively, stability) in prescribed finite time if the underlying signed digraph is weakly connected and has at least one structurally balanced CSC (respectively, all its CSCs are structurally unbalanced). The conditions on signsymmetry, structural balance, and connectivity of signed digraphs typically assumed in the existing literature are removed. Finally, simulation examples have been provided to validate the derived results.

We have only considered the PTCC problems for CANs with single-integrator dynamics. Possible extensions of the established results include addressing CANs with general linear dynamics, nonlinear dynamics, switching topologies and communication delays.
