# REFERENCES

[1] D.
Meng, M.
Du, and Y.
Wu, “Extended structural balance theory and method for cooperative–antagonistic networks,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
5, pp.
2147–2154, 2019.
[2] W.
Li, H.
Zhang, Y.
Zhou, and Y.
Wang, “Bipartite formation tracking for multi-agent systems using fully distributed dynamic edge-event-triggered protocol,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, no.
99, pp.
1–7, 2022.
[3] L.
Chen, L.
Shi, Q.
Zhou, H.
Sheng, and Y.
Cheng, “Secure bipartite tracking control for linear leader-following multiagent systems under denial-of-service attacks,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
9, no.
8, pp.
1512–1515, 2022.
[4] Z.-H.
Zhu, B.
Hu, Z.-H.
Guan, D.-X.
Zhang, and X.-M.
Cheng, “Collective behaviors of discrete-time multi-agent systems over signed digraphs,” IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, vol.
8, no.
1, pp.
613–624, 2021.
[5] Y.
Wu, D.
Meng, and Z.-G.
Wu, “Disagreement and antagonism in signed networks: A survey,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
9, no.
7, pp.
1166–1187.
[6] D.
Meng, Y.
Jia, and J.
Du, “Finite-time consensus for multiagent systems with cooperative and antagonistic interactions,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, vol.
27, no.
4, pp.
762–770, 2015.
[7] ——, “Nonlinear finite-time bipartite consensus protocol for multiagent systems associated with signed graphs,” International Journal of Control, vol.
88, no.
10, pp.
2074–2085, 2015.
[8] L.
Zhao, Y.
Jia, and J.
Yu, “Adaptive finite-time bipartite consensus for second-order multi-agent systems with antagonistic interactions,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
102, pp.
22–31, 2017.
[9] H.-X.
Hu, G.
Wen, W.
Yu, J.
Cao, and T.
Huang, “Finite-time coordination behavior of multiple Euler–Lagrange systems in cooperationcompetition networks,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
49, no.
8, pp.
2967–2979, 2019.
[10] J.
Lu, Y.
Wang, X.
Shi, and J.
Cao, “Finite-time bipartite consensus for multiagent systems under detail-balanced antagonistic interactions,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
51, no.
6, pp.
3867–3875, 2019.
[11] H.
Wang, W.
Yu, G.
Wen, and G.
Chen, “Finite-time bipartite consensus for multi-agent systems on directed signed networks,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, vol.
65, no.
12, pp.
4336–4348, 2018.
[12] Y.
Liu, H.
Zhang, Z.
Shi, and Z.
