[8] S.
Khaderi, P.
Murali, and R.
Ahluwalia, “Failure and toughness of bio-inspired composites: Insights from phase field modelling,” Computational Materials Science, vol.
95, pp.
1 – 7, 2014.
[9] A.
C.
Hansen-Dorr, R.
[de Borst], P.
Hennig, and M.
K ¨ astner, “Phase- ¨ field modelling of interface failure in brittle materials,” Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, vol.
346, pp.
25 – 42, 2019.
[10] R.
Wang, K.
Parunandi, D.
Yu, D.
Kalathil, and S.
Chakravorty, “Decoupled Data Based Approach for Learning to Control Nonlinear Dynamical Systems,” arXiv e-prints, p.
arXiv:1904.08361, Apr 2019.
[11] R.
S.
Sutton and A.
G.
Barto, Reinforcement learning: An introduction.
MIT press, 2018.
[12] D.
Silver, A.
Huang, C.
J.
Maddison, A.
Guez, L.
Sifre, G.
Van Den Driessche, J.
Schrittwieser, I.
Antonoglou, V.
Panneershelvam, M.
Lanctot et al., “Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search,” nature, vol.
529, no.
7587, p.
484, 2016.
[13] T.
P.
Lillicrap, J.
J.
Hunt, A.
Pritzel, N.
Heess, T.
Erez, Y.
Tassa, D.
Silver, and D.
Wierstra, “Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1509.02971, 2015.
[14] S.
Levine, C.
Finn, T.
Darrell, and P.
Abbeel, “End-to-end training of deep visuomotor policies,” The Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol.
17, no.
1, pp.
1334–1373, 2016.
[15] W.
Yuhuai, M.
Elman, L.
Shun, G.
Roger, and B.
Jimmy, “Scalable trust-region method for deep reinforcement learning using kroneckerfactored approximation,” arXiv:1708.05144, 2017.
[16] S.
John, L.
Sergey, M.
Philipp, J.
Michael I., and A.
Pieter, “Trust region policy optimization,” arXiv:1502.05477, 2017.
[17] S.
John, W.
Filip, D.
Prafulla, R.
Alec, and K.
Oleg, “Proximal policy optimization algorithms,” arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
[18] P.
Henderson, R.
Islam, P.
Bachman, J.
Pineau, D.
Precup, and D.
Meger, “Deep reinforcement learning that matters,” in Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2018.
[19] Y.
Pan, A.-m.
Farahmand, M.
White, S.
Nabi, P.
Grover, and D.
Nikovski, “Reinforcement learning with function-valued action spaces for partial differential equation control,” in Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, ser.
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, J.
Dy and A.
Krause, Eds., vol.
80.
PMLR, 10–15 Jul 2018, pp.
3986–3995.
[Online].
