# REFERENCES

[1] C. Baier and J.-P. Katoen, Principles of model checking. MIT press, 2008.   
[2] O. Maler and D. Nickovic, “Monitoring temporal properties of continuous signals,” in Formal Techniques, Modelling and Analysis of Timed and Fault-Tolerant Systems. Springer, 2004, pp. 152–166.   
[3] C. Belta, B. Yordanov, and E. A. Gol, Formal methods for discretetime dynamical systems. Springer, 2017, vol. 15.   
[4] C. Belta and S. Sadraddini, “Formal methods for control synthesis: An optimization perspective,” Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, vol. 2, pp. 115–140, 2019.   
[5] Y. V. Pant, H. Abbas, and R. Mangharam, “Smooth operator: Control using the smooth robustness of temporal logic,” in 2017 IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications (CCTA). IEEE, 2017, pp. 1235–1240.   
[6] Y. Gilpin, V. Kurtz, and H. Lin, “A smooth robustness measure of signal temporal logic for symbolic control,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 241–246, 2020.   
[7] Y. Chen, X. C. Ding, and C. Belta, “Synthesis of distributed control and communication schemes from global ltl specifications,” in 2011 50th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control and European Control Conference. IEEE, 2011, pp. 2718–2723.   
[8] P. Schillinger, M. Burger, and D. V. Dimarogonas, “Simultaneous task ¨ allocation and planning for temporal logic goals in heterogeneous multi-robot systems,” The international journal of robotics research, vol. 37, no. 7, pp. 818–838, 2018.   
[9] Y. Kantaros and M. M. Zavlanos, “Stylus\*: A temporal logic optimal control synthesis algorithm for large-scale multi-robot systems,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 39, no. 7, pp. 812– 836, 2020.
