Proof. Suppose that there is an optimal transport kernel K such that $a K = b$ . Since a and b have the same mass and integral, it must be the case that $a ^ { + } K = b ^ { + }$ , and $a ^ { - } K = b ^ { - }$ . Thus it must be the case that $\alpha K = \beta$ .

We then know that $\alpha \odot K = \gamma$ is the monotone plan between α and β. On measures that are absolutely continuous with respect to $\alpha _ { \mathrm { { ; } } }$ , we will have $\mu K = \mu K ^ { \gamma }$ . This is the case for $a ^ { \pm }$ .

Thus it is the case that the kernel associated to the monotone plan that sends a to b. But since we know that the signatures are different, there is mass from a sent to mass of the opposite sign to $b .$ This is a contradiction and completes the proof. 

It is impossible to send two measures with equal mass and integral, but which have different signatures, because the positive and negative components of two measures must be sent to each other. When this is the case, the monotonicity requirement of the optimal couplings would force a mismatch as a kernel that is constrained to monotonicity cannot change the signature, (expect by destroying it). Throughout this section it has been important that the signed measures not only have equal integral, as would be expected from the image of a Markov kernel, but also equal mass. This is because an optimal transport kernel can destroy mass.

Consider the kernel K which maps χ[0,2] to 2δ1. Then the measure a = χ[0,1] − χ(1,2] $\chi _ { [ 0 , 2 ] }$ $2 \delta _ { 1 }$ $a = \chi _ { [ 0 , 1 ] } - \chi _ { ( 1 , 2 ] }$ is a signed measure with finite mass, integral and moment, but $a K = 0$ . This is because the positive and negative parts of a are sent to the same place and cancel out, but this is done without violating $c { - } \mathrm { C M }$ . Mass destruction is a feature one may want consider in future theoretical treatises of signed optimal transport.
