# B. Data-Driven Computation of e-UOSS Constants

Based on [32, Corollary 7], one can deduce that η can be chosen as $\eta = | A _ { L } | _ { P _ { e } }$ , where $A _ { L }$ corresponds to $A _ { L } =$ $A + L C$ (with L such that $A + L C$ is Schur stable) and $P _ { e }$ to the solution of [32, Eq. (28)]. Furthermore, the constants p0 and $r _ { 0 }$ can be chosen as $p _ { 0 } ~ = ~ | P _ { e } ^ { 1 / 2 } | / \sqrt { \lambda _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ( P _ { e } ) }$ and $r _ { 0 } = | L | _ { P _ { e } } | P _ { e } ^ { 1 / 2 } | / ( \lambda _ { \mathrm { m i n } } ( P _ { e } ) | A _ { L } | _ { P _ { e } } )$ . To obtain a data-driven expression of $A _ { L }$ (which then allows to compute $P _ { e }$ by means of [32, Eq. (28)]), we design a data-driven state feedback controlle $\mathrm { r } ^ { 4 } \ L ^ { \top }$ for the dual system, as explained in [10], [17]. This controller leads to stable closed-loop dynamics, i.e., $A ^ { \top } + C ^ { \top } L ^ { \top }$ is Schur stable. Then, we take advantage of the duality between control and estimation. In fact, the stabilizing controller for the dual system is at the same time an observer for the original system with stable error dynamics. Furthermore, the closed-loop dynamics of the stabilized dual system (represented by $A ^ { \dagger } + C ^ { \dagger } L ^ { \dagger }$ in the model-based

4Note that the controller design requires data of the original system for which rank $\left( \begin{array} { l } { { \left[ H _ { 1 } ( x _ { [ 1 , N - 1 ] } ^ { d } ) \right] } } \\ { { H _ { 1 } ( y _ { [ 0 , N - 2 ] } ^ { d } ) } } \end{array} \right) = n + p$ "H1(xd[1,N−1])# holds.

system representation) correspond to $A + L C$ of the original system, which allows to determine the required e-UOSS constants. Please note that this procedure is valid for noisefree (offline) data. Nevertheless, in simulations, we observe that this procedure still produces Schur stable matrices $A _ { L }$ (enabling a data-driven computation of the e-UOSS constants) as long as the noise level is small enough.
