arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.04014 (2018).
[27] GURI, M., ZADOV, B., DAIDAKULOV, A., AND ELOVICI, Y.
Odini: Escaping sensitive data from faraday-caged, air-gapped computers via magnetic fields.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.02700 (2018).
[28] GURI, M., ZADOV, B., AND ELOVICI, Y.
Led-it-go: Leaking (a lot of) data from air-gapped computers via the (small) hard drive led.
In International Conference on Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment (2017), Springer, pp.
161–184.
[29] GUSTAFSON, D.
E., AND SPEYER, J.
L.
Design of linear regulators for nonlinear stochastic systems.
Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets 12, 6 (1975), 351–358.
[30] HA, K., CHEN, Z., HU, W., RICHTER, W., PILLAI, P., AND SATYA-NARAYANAN, M.
Towards wearable cognitive assistance.
In Proceedings of the 12th annual international conference on Mobile systems, applications, and services (2014), ACM, pp.
68–81.
[31] KÖPF, B., AND BASIN, D.
An information-theoretic model for adaptive side-channel attacks.
In Proceedings of the 14th ACM conference on Computer and communications security (2007), ACM, pp.
286–296.
[32] KURNIAWAN, A.
Learning AWS IoT: Effectively manage connected devices on the AWS cloud using services such as AWS Greengrass, AWS button, predictive analytics and machine learning.
Packt Publishing Ltd, 2018.
[33] PAPERNOT, N., MCDANIEL, P., JHA, S., FREDRIKSON, M., CELIK, Z.
B., AND SWAMI, A.
The limitations of deep learning in adversarial settings.
In 2016 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P) (2016), IEEE, pp.
372–387.
[34] SHI, W., CAO, J., ZHANG, Q., LI, Y., AND XU, L.
Edge computing: Vision and challenges.
IEEE Internet of Things Journal 3, 5 (2016), 637–646.
