# VII. DISCUSSION

We briefly discuss the practicality of such attacks as well as the practical design of defensive countermeasures.

Practicality and efficacy of attacks. The attacks presented in this paper are significantly more complicated than the previous air-gapped attacks, e.g., encoding data into LEDs is much easier than encoding into the movement of a drone while maintaining the utility of the application. However, such attacks are also easier to mitigate as one can simply physically disable such unnecessary actuators to harden the systems, e.g., by removing any LEDs from the system. It is much less feasible to constrain particular movements of a CPS. Further, the attacks presented in this paper were very simple movements. For more complex systems with more physical degrees of freedom, e.g., a swarm of drones or a factory automation floor with several robotic arms, more sophisticated encoding and decoding mechanisms can be instrumented to both increase the rate of data transmission as well as to further obfuscate the encoding scheme.

Practical defensive measures. The state estimators utilized by the defenders in this paper were idealistic as we used the Optitrack motion capture system that has sub-millimeter accuracy and typically requires significant calibration for a small and limited space. In reality, localization and state estimation of drones in the wild is much more noisier and less predictable. In such cases, state estimation may not be reliable enough to detect an attacker and a defender may need to rely on a means of attesting the software that is running on the CPS. Recent works have made strides towards attesting the behavioral integrity [4] as well as the integrity of controller software [13] in the context of industrial control systems. However, these have yet to be generalized to more complex CPS such as drones.
