[22] Felix Otto. The geometry of dissipative evolution equations: the porous medium equation. Communications in Partial Differential Equations, 2001.   
[23] Matthew D Parno, Brendan A West, Arnold J Song, Taylor S Hodgdon, and DT O’Connor. Remote measurement of sea ice dynamics with regularized optimal transport. Geophysical Research Letters, 46(10):5341–5350, 2019.   
[24] Gabriel Peyr´e, Marco Cuturi, et al. Computational optimal transport: With applications to data science. Foundations and Trends® in Machine Learning, 11(5-6):355–607, 2019.   
[25] Benedetto Piccoli and Francesco Rossi. Transport equation with nonlocal velocity in Wasserstein spaces: convergence of numerical schemes. Acta Applicandae Mathematicae, 124(1):73–105, 2013.   
[26] Benedetto Piccoli and Francesco Rossi. Generalized Wasserstein distance and its application to transport equations with source. Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis, 211(1):335–358, 2014.   
[27] Benedetto Piccoli and Francesco Rossi. On properties of the generalized Wasserstein distance. Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis, 222(3):1339– 1365, 2016.   
[28] Benedetto Piccoli, Francesco Rossi, and Magali Tournus. A Wasserstein norm for signed measures, with application to nonlocal transport equation with source term. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.05105, 2019.   
[29] Filippo Santambrogio. Introduction to optimal transport theory. Notes, 2014.   
[30] Filippo Santambrogio. Optimal Transport for Applied Mathematicians, volume 55. Springer, 2015.   
[31] Justin Solomon, Fernando De Goes, Gabriel Peyr´e, Marco Cuturi, Adrian Butscher, Andy Nguyen, Tao Du, and Leonidas Guibas. Convolutional Wasserstein distances: Efficient optimal transportation on geometric domains. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 34(4):66, 2015.

[32] C´edric Villani. Topics in Optimal Transportation. Number 58. American Mathematical Soc., 2003.   
[33] C´edric Villani. Optimal Transport: Old and New, volume 338. Springer Science & Business Media, 2008.
