Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v80/pan18a.html   
[20] A.
Bensoussan, G.
Da Prato, M.
C.
Delfour, and S.
K.
Mitter, Representation and control of infinite dimensional systems.
Birkhauser ¨ Boston, 1992, vol.
1 and 2.
[21] S.
Lall, J.
E.
Marsden, and S.
Glavaski, “A subspace approach to ˇ balanced truncation for model reduction of nonlinear control systems,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control: IFAC-Affiliated Journal, vol.
12, no.
6, pp.
519–535, 2002.
[22] S.
Ravindran, “Adaptive reduced-order controllers for a thermal flow system using proper orthogonal decomposition,” SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing, vol.
23, no.
6, pp.
1924–1942, 2002.
[23] K.
Kunisch and S.
Volkwein, “Proper orthogonal decomposition for optimality systems,” ESAIM: Mathematical Modelling and Numerical Analysis-Modelisation Math ´ ematique et Analyse Num ´ erique ´ , vol.
42, no.
1, pp.
1–23, 2008.
[24] S.
M.
Allen and J.
W.
Cahn, “A microscopic theory for antiphase boundary motion and its application to antiphase domain coarsening,” Acta Metallurgica, vol.
27, no.
6, pp.
1085 – 1095, 1979.
[25] J.
W.
Cahn and J.
E.
Hilliard, “Free energy of a nonuniform system.
i.
interfacial free energy,” J.
Chem.
Phys., vol.
28, no.
2, p.
258–267, 1958.
[26] D.
Yu, M.
Rafieisakhaei, and S.
Chakravorty, “Stochastic Feedback Control of Systems with Unknown Nonlinear Dynamics,” in 56th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control(CDC), 2017.
[27] R.
Wang, K.
S.
Parunandi, A.
Sharma, S.
Chakravorty, and D.
Kalathil, “On the search for feedback in reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.09478, 2020.
[28] A.
E.
Bryson and Y.-C.
Ho, Applied Optimal Control: Optimization, Estimation, and Control.
Routledge, New York, 1975.
[29] M.
N.
G.
Mohamed and S.
Chakravorty, “Near optimality and tractability in stochastic nonlinear control,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.01041, 2020.
