IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., 1(1), 86–91.
Skogestad, S.
and Postlethwaite, I.
(2005).
Multivariable Feedback Control: Analysis and Design.
John Wiley & Sons, Chichester, 2nd edition.
Smith, M.C.
(1989).
On stabilization and the existence of coprime factorizations.
IEEE Trans.
Automat.
Control, 34(9), 1005–1007.
Smith, R.S.
and Hadaegh, F.Y.
(2005).
Control of deep-space formation-flying spacecraft;
relative sensing and switched information.
Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, 28(1), 106–114.
Sundaram, S.
and Hadjicostis, C.N.
(2008).
Distributed function calculation and consensus using linear iterative strategies.
IEEE J.
Sel.
Areas Commun., 26(4), 650–660.
Verma, M.S.
(1988).
Coprime fractional representations and stability of nonlinear feedback systems.
Int.
J.
Control, 48, 897–918.
Vidyasagar, M.
(1985).
Control System Synthesis: A Factorization Approach.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
Wieland, P., Sepulchre, R., and Allgöwer, F.
(2011).
An internal model principle is necessary and sufficient for linear output synchronization.
Automatica, 47(5), 1068–1074.
Yucelen, T.
and Egerstedt, M.
(2012).
Control of multiagent systems under persistent disturbances.
In "Proc.
2012 American Control Conf.,, 5264– 5269.
Zelazo, D.
and Mesbahi, M.
(2011a).
Edge agreement: Graph-theoretic performance bounds and passivity analysis.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 56(3), 544–555.
Zelazo, D.
and Mesbahi, M.
(2011b).
Graph-theoretic analysis and synthesis of relative sensing networks.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 56(5), 971–982.
Zhou, K., Doyle, J.C., and Glover, K.
(1996).
Robust and Optimal Control.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
