[10] X.
Luo, Y.
Kantaros, and M.
M.
Zavlanos, “An abstraction-free method for multirobot temporal logic optimal control synthesis,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2021.
[11] Z.
Liu, B.
Wu, J.
Dai, and H.
Lin, “Distributed communicationaware motion planning for networked mobile robots under formal specifications,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
7, no.
4, pp.
1801–1811, 2020.
[12] Y.
E.
Sahin, P.
Nilsson, and N.
Ozay, “Provably-correct coordination of large collections of agents with counting temporal logic constraints,” in 2017 ACM/IEEE 8th International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
249–258.
[13] K.
Leahy, Z.
Serlin, C.-I.
Vasile, A.
Schoer, A.
M.
Jones, R.
Tron, and C.
Belta, “Scalable and robust algorithms for task-based coordination from high-level specifications (scratches),” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2021.
[14] Y.
E.
Sahin, P.
Nilsson, and N.
Ozay, “Synchronous and asynchronous multi-agent coordination with cltl+ constraints,” in 2017 IEEE 56th Annual Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
335–342.
[15] A.
T.
Buyukkocak, D.
Aksaray, and Y.
Yazıcıoglu, “Planning of ˘ heterogeneous multi-agent systems under signal temporal logic specifications with integral predicates,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
6, no.
2, pp.
1375–1382, 2021.
[16] Z.
Xu and A.
A.
Julius, “Census signal temporal logic inference for multiagent group behavior analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol.
15, no.
1, pp.
264–277, 2016.
[17] A.
Donze and O.
Maler, “Robust satisfaction of temporal logic over ´ real-valued signals,” in International Conference on Formal Modeling and Analysis of Timed Systems.
Springer, 2010, pp.
92–106.
[18] P.
Varnai and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “On robustness metrics for learning stl tasks,” in 2020 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
5394–5399.
[19] N.
Mehdipour, C.-I.
Vasile, and C.
Belta, “Arithmetic-geometric mean robustness for control from signal temporal logic specifications,” in 2019 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
1690– 1695.
[20] N.
Hansen and A.
Ostermeier, “Completely derandomized selfadaptation in evolution strategies,” Evolutionary computation, vol.
9, no.
2, pp.
159–195, 2001.
[21] N.
Hansen and S.
