# REFERENCES

[1] Cloud iot edge - extending google cloud’s ai & ml | iot edge | google cloud.
[2] Explore the internet of things (iot).
[3] Predix edge computing | edge computing platform | ge digital.
[4] ADEPU, S., BRASSER, F., GARCIA, L., RODLER, M., DAVI, L., SADEGHI, A.-R., AND ZONOUZ, S.
Control behavior integrity for distributed cyber-physical systems.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.08310 (2018).
[5] BERTSEKAS, D.
P., BERTSEKAS, D.
P., BERTSEKAS, D.
P., AND BERTSEKAS, D.
P.
Dynamic programming and optimal control, vol.
1.
Athena scientific Belmont, MA, 1995.
[6] BONOMI, F., MILITO, R., ZHU, J., AND ADDEPALLI, S.
Fog computing and its role in the internet of things.
In Proceedings of the first edition of the MCC workshop on Mobile cloud computing (2012), ACM, pp.
13–16.
[7] ESMAEILZADEH, H., SAMPSON, A., CEZE, L., AND BURGER, D.
Neural acceleration for general-purpose approximate programs.
In Proceedings of the 2012 45th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (2012), IEEE Computer Society, pp.
449–460.
[8] FALLIERE, N., MURCHU, L.
O., AND CHIEN, E.
W32.
stuxnet dossier.
White paper, Symantec Corp., Security Response 5, 6 (2011), 29.
[9] FARUQUE, A., ABDULLAH, M., CHHETRI, S.
R., CANEDO, A., AND WAN, J.
Acoustic side-channel attacks on additive manufacturing systems.
In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (2016), IEEE Press, p.
19.
[10] FREIVALD, M.
P., RICHARDS, M.
S., AND NOBLE, A.
C.
Changedetection tool indicating degree and location of change of internet documents by comparison of cyclic-redundancy-check (crc) signatures, Apr.
27 1999.
US Patent 5,898,836.
[11] GARCIA, L., BRASSER, F., CINTUGLU, M.
H., SADEGHI, A.-R., MOHAMMED, O.
A., AND ZONOUZ, S.
A.
Hey, my malware knows physics!
attacking plcs with physical model aware rootkit.
In NDSS (2017).
[12] GARCIA, L., SENYONDO, H., MCLAUGHLIN, S., AND ZONOUZ, S.
Covert channel communication through physical interdependencies in cyber-physical infrastructures.
In Smart Grid Communications (SmartGridComm), 2014 IEEE International Conference on (2014), IEEE, pp.
952–957.
[13] GHAEINI, H.
R., CHAN, M., BAHMANI, R., BRASSER, F., GARCIA, L., ZHOU, J., SADEGHI, A.-R., AND ZONOUZ, S.
Patt: Physics-based attestation of control systems.
In International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions, and Defenses (2019), Springer.
