# VI. RELATED WORK

In this section we will discuss some of the related work on data exfiltration via covert channels as well as the formalization of side channels.

Air-gapped covert data exfiltration. There is a large body of research on the topic of physical covert channel data exfiltration across air-gapped systems. Multiple works have shown that electromagnetic signals emitted from devices, e.g., signals from video displays [20], GSM frequencies emitted from workstations [19], or USB generated electromagnetic emissions [21], can be picked up by mobile phones to establish a physical covert channel. It was shown that even if these channels were physically insulated to conceal any emissions via a Faraday cage, magnetic fields emitted from a CPU can act as a transmitter of data to mobile phones [27], [18]. Power consumption has also been utilized as a transmitter of data by modulating the CPU utilization [26]. Similarly (but at a larger scale), it was shown that two PLCs in the context of industrial power grid can communicate covertly with each other by modulating their associated actuators in a stealthy manner [12]. However, these systems are not necessarily airgapped as they have direct access to the cyber-physical sensors. Thermal emissions between two PCs have also been utilized to establish bi-directional communication [22]. Acoustic covert channels have been utilized to exfiltrate data from physical hard drive noises [24], commodity desktop speakers [25], or desktop fans [23]. It has even been shown propietary information of 3D printed models can be divulged from the noise of the motors [9]. There has also been several works that have shown a similar approach to optically encode and decode information by utilizing LEDs [28], [16], [17]. In all of these cases, these attacks were presented informally and, to the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to formalize a controltheoretic model of covert physical channel exfiltration while maintaining stealthiness as well as the utility of the respective cyber-physical application. Amost all of these related works actually do not implement these attacks in the context of cyberphysical applications and the associated proposed countermeasures discuss physical isolation or procedural security that are not applicable to cyber-physical edge devices in the wild. It is important to note that there have been attempts to formalize the notion of side-channels.
