# References

[1] R. Adams and J. Fournier, Sobolev spaces, second ed., Pure and Applied Mathematics, vol. 140, Amsterdam, Elsevier/Academic Press, 2003.   
[2] H. Amann and M. Crandal, On some existence theorems for semi-linear elliptic equations, Indiana Univ. Math. J. 27 (1978), no. 5, 779–790.   
[3] G. Csat´o, B. Dacorogna and O. Kneuss, The pullback equation for differential forms, Progress in Nonlinear Differential Equations and their Applications, 83, New York, Birkh¨auser/Springer, 2012.

[4] J.
Busca and B.
Sirakov, Harnack type estimates for nonlinear elliptic systems and applications, Ann.
Inst.
H.
Poincar´e C Anal.
Non Lin´eaire 21 (2004), no.
5, 543–590.
[5] L.
Evans, Partial differential equations, second ed., Graduate Studies in Mathematics, vol.
19, American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2010.
[6] G.
Ferrari and N.
Rodosthenous, Optimal control of debt-to-GDP ratio in an N-state regime switching economy,SIAM J.
Control Optim.
58 (2020), no.
2, 755–786.
[7] G.
Ferrari and S.
Yang, On an optimal extraction problem with regime switching, Adv.
in Appl.
Probab.
50 (2018), no.
3, 671–705.
[8] M.
Garroni and J.
Menaldi, Second order elliptic integro-differential problems, Chapman & Hall/CRC Research Notes in Mathematics, vol.
430, Boca Raton, FL, 2002.
[9] D.
Gilbarg and N.
Trudinger, Elliptic partial differential equations of second order, Classics in Mathematics, Berlin, Springer-Verlag, 2001, Reprint of the 1998 edition.
[10] R.
Hynd and H.
Mawi, On Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations with convex gradient constraints, Interfaces Free Bound.
18 (2016), no.
3, 291–315.
[11] Z.
Jiang and M.
Pistorius, Optimal dividend distribution under Markov regime switching, Finance Stoch.
Appl.
16 (2012), no.
3, 449–476.
[12] M.
Kelbert and H.
A.
Moreno-Franco HJB equations with gradient constraint associated with jump-diffusion controlled processes.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization 57 (2019).
[13] M.
Kelbert and H.
A.
Moreno-Franco, On a mixed singular/switching control problem with multiple regimes.
To appear in the Advances in Applied Probability 54.3 (September 2022).
[14] P.
Lions, A remark on Bony maximum principle, Proc.
Amer.
Math.
Soc.
88 (1983), no.
3, 503–508.
[15] G.
Nornberg, D.
Schiera and B.
Sirakov, A priori estimates and multiplicity for systems of elliptic PDE with natural gradient growth, Discrete Contin.
Dyn.
Syst.
40 (2020), no.
6, 3857–3881.
[16] P.
Protter, Stochastic integration and differential equations, Stochastic Modelling and Applied Probability, vol.
21, Berlin, Springer-Verlag, 2005, Second edition.
[17] G.
Sweers, Strong positivity in C(Ω) for elliptic systems, Math.
Z.
209 (1992), no.
2, 251–271.
[18] M.
Souto, A priori estimates and existence of positive solutions of nonlinear cooperative elliptic systems, Differential Integral Equations 8 (1995), no.
5, 1245–1258.
[19] K.

Taira, Existence and uniqueness theorems for semilinear elliptic boundary value problems, Adv.
Differential Equations.
2 (1997), no.
4, 509–534.
[20] G.
G.
Yin and C.
Zhu, Hybrid switching diffusions, Stochastic Modelling and Applied Probability, vol.
63, Berlin, Springer-Verlag, 2010.
