# REFERENCES

Agrawal, P., Chen, J., and Jiang, N.
(2021).
Improved worst-case regret bounds for randomized least-squares value iteration.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, 6566–6573.
Alessandri, A., Baglietto, M., and Battistelli, G.
(2008).
Moving-horizon state estimation for nonlinear discretetime systems: New stability results and approximation schemes.
Automatica, 44(7), 1753–1765.
Anderson, J., Doyle, J.C., Low, S.H., and Matni, N.
(2019).
System level synthesis.
Annual Reviews in Control, 47, 364–393.
Bernstein, D.S.
and Haddad, W.M.
(1989).
Steady-state kalman filtering with an H∞ error bound.
Systems and Control Letters, 12(1), 9–16.
Boyd, S., El Ghaoui, L., Feron, E., and Balakrishnan, V.
(1994).
Linear matrix inequalities in system and control theory.
SIAM.
Didier, A., Sieber, J., and Zeilinger, M.N.
(2022).
A system level approach to regret optimal control.
IEEE Control Systems Letters.
Farina, M., Ferrari-Trecate, G., and Scattolini, R.
(2010).
Distributed moving horizon estimation for linear constrained systems.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 55(11), 2462–2475.
Ferrari-Trecate, G., Mignone, D., and Morari, M.
(2002).
Moving horizon estimation for hybrid systems.
IEEE transactions on automatic control, 47(10), 1663–1676.
Gharbi, M., Gharesifard, B., and Ebenbauer, C.
(2021).
Anytime proximity moving horizon estimation: Stability and regret for nonlinear systems.
In 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 728–735.
IEEE.
Goel, G.
and Hassibi, B.
(2021).
Regret-optimal estimation and control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.12097.
Hassibi, B., Sayed, A.H., and Kailath, T.
(1999).
Indefinite-Quadratic estimation and control: a unified approach to H2 and H∞ theories.
SIAM.
Kalman, R.E.
(1960).
A new approach to linear filtering and prediction problems.
Transactions of the ASME– Journal of Basic Engineering, 82(Series D), 35–45.
Leibfritz, F.
(2004).
Compleib, constraint matrixoptimization problem library-a collection of test examples for nonlinear semidefinite programs, control system design and related problems.
Dept.
Math., Univ.
Trier, Trier, Germany, Tech.
Rep, 2004.
Loomes, G.
and Sugden, R.
(1982).
Regret theory: An alternative theory of rational choice under uncertainty.
The economic journal, 92(368), 805–824.
Luenberger, D.
(1971).
An introduction to observers.
