# 3.3 EMC mobile robot test - EMC and PI comparison

In [1] a comparison between the EMC and a complete PID controller is made. However other experimental tests are conducted by considering a partial Proportional-Integral (PI) controller. Such a benchmark is adopted because, in a set of experimental tests, it is found that the absence of the derivative term led to more satisfactory control behaviours. The experimental comparison between the EMC and PI controllers, in critical varying time conditions, is shown in Figures from 6 to 8. The adopted variable timestamp is in the range of $T _ { s } = [ 1 0 - 1 5 0 ]$ ms, which introduces high delays in the control system and simulates an NCS scenario. The EMC and PI controller parameters are listed in Table 1.

In Figure 6 the EMC control unit and a Proportional-Integral controller were compared in the mentioned experimental scenario. The measured output is y and the reference to be tracked is y. The PI controller results to have difficulties to track the reference output speed, even in steady-state conditions. Instead the EMC, after an initial transient with acceptable delays and overshoots, is able to follow y with small errors.

Such a behaviour is validated by Figure $^ { 7 , }$ where the Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) between $\overline { { \mathbf { y } } }$ and y is computed. In the EMC case, the error is $R M S E _ { E M C } = 0 . 4 0 5 9 4$ rad $\mathrm { s } ^ { - 1 }$ : significantly lower than the one for the PI controller, $R M S E _ { P I } ~ =$ $0 . 8 8 3 7 6 ~ \mathrm { r a d s ^ { - 1 } }$ .

Finally in Figure 8 the tracking control inputs for both the controllers were studied. In the EMC the control input $\mathbf { u } _ { t r k }$ is lower in magnitude compared to the PI control input, and presents a more stable behaviour in steady-state conditions.
