# REFERENCES

[1] Fares J.
Abu-Dakka and Matteo Saveriano.
Variable Impedance Control and Learning—A Review.
Frontiers in Robotics and AI, 7:177, 2020.
[2] R.J.
Anderson and M.W.
Spong.
Bilateral control of teleoperators with time delay.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 34(5):494–501, May 1989.
[3] Miroslav Bogdanovic, Majid Khadiv, and Ludovic Righetti.
Learning variable impedance control for contact sensitive tasks.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(4):6129–6136, 2020.
[4] Stephen Boyd, Laurent El Ghaoui, Eric Feron, and Venkataramanan Balakrishnan.
Linear Matrix Inequalities in System and Control Theory.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, January 1994.
[5] Nikhil Chopra, Masayuki Fujita, Romeo Ortega, and Mark W.
Spong.
Passivity-Based Control of Robots: Theory and Examples from the Literature.
IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 42(2):63–73, April 2022.
[6] J.
E.
Colgate and N.
Hogan.
Robust control of dynamically interacting systems.
International Journal of Control, 48(1):65–88, July 1988.
[7] Federica Ferraguti, Cristian Secchi, and Cesare Fantuzzi.
A tank-based approach to impedance control with variable stiffness.
Proceedings - IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 4948–4953, 2013.
[8] Michael C.
Grant and Stephen P.
Boyd.
Graph Implementations for Nonsmooth Convex Programs.
In Vincent D.
Blondel, Stephen P.
Boyd, and Hidenori Kimura, editors, Recent Advances in Learning and Control, Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences, pages 95–110.
Springer, London, 2008.
[9] Takeshi Hatanaka, Nikhil Chopra, and Mark W.
Spong.
Passivitybased control of robots: Historical perspective and contemporary issues.
In 2015 54th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 2450–2452, December 2015.
[10] Neville Hogan.
Impedance Control: An Approach to Manipulation.
In 1984 American Control Conference, pages 304–313, June 1984.
[11] Neville Hogan.
Contact and Physical Interaction.
Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 5(1):annurev–control– 042920–010933, May 2022.
[12] Oussama Khatib.
A unified approach for motion and force control of robot manipulators: The operational space formulation.
IEEE Journal on Robotics and Automation, 3(1):43–53, February 1987.
[13] Romeo Ortega, Antonio Lor´ıa, Per Johan Nicklasson, and Hebertt Sira-Ram´ırez.
