# 5 Oil drilling

We consider the control problem in the management of natural resources applied to oil drilling introduced in [GKL18] and extended in [GGKL21]. The objective is for an oil driller, to balance the costs of extraction, storage in a volatile energy market. The oil price $P _ { t } \in \mathbb { R }$ is assumed to be a Black-Scholes process:

$$d P _ {t} = \mu P _ {t} d t + \eta P _ {t} d W _ {t}. \tag {5.1}$$

The control is given by $q _ { t } = ( q _ { t } ^ { v } , q _ { t } ^ { s } , q _ { t } ^ { v , s } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ where $q _ { t } ^ { v }$ is the quantity of extracted oil immediately sold on the market per time unit, $q _ { t } ^ { s }$ is the quantity of extracted oil that is stored per time unit, $q _ { t } ^ { v , s }$ is the quantity of stored oil that is sold per time unit. The cumulated quantities of extracted and stored oil at time t are respectively given by

$$E _ {t} = \int_ {0} ^ {t} (q _ {r} ^ {v} + q _ {r} ^ {s}) d r, \quad S _ {t} = \int_ {0} ^ {t} (q _ {r} ^ {s} - q _ {r} ^ {v, s}) d r. \tag {5.2}$$

The extraction and storage prices are respectively given by

$$c _ {e} (E _ {t}) = \exp (\xi_ {e} E _ {t}), \quad c _ {s} (S _ {t}) = \exp (\xi_ {s} S _ {t}) - 1. \tag {5.3}$$

The constraints on the control are the following:

$$q _ {t} ^ {v}, q _ {t} ^ {s}, q _ {t} ^ {v, s} \geq 0, \quad q _ {t} ^ {v, s} \leq q ^ {S}, \quad q _ {t} ^ {v} + q _ {t} ^ {s} \leq K _ {0}, \quad 0 \leq S _ {t} \leq Q ^ {S}, \tag {5.4}$$

where $q ^ { S } , K _ { 0 }$ and $Q ^ { S }$ are operational bounds. The objective is

$$J (q) = - \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {T} e ^ {- \rho r} U \Bigl (q _ {r} ^ {v} P _ {r} + q _ {r} ^ {v, s} (1 - \varepsilon) P _ {r} - (q _ {r} ^ {v} + q _ {r} ^ {s}) c _ {e} (E _ {r}) - c _ {s} (S _ {r}) \Bigr) d r \right], \tag {5.5}$$

where U : R  R is the utility function.

In the experiments we take

$$T = 1, \mu = 0. 0 1, \eta = 0. 2, \rho = 0. 0 1, \varepsilon = 0, K _ {0} = 5,\xi_ {e} = 1 \mathrm{e} - 2, \xi_ {s} = 5 \mathrm{e} - 3, q ^ {S} = 1 0, P _ {0} = 1, U (x) = x. \tag {5.6}$$

The control $q _ { t }$ is given by a feedforward neural network with two hidden layers with 32 units and with ReLU activation while the output layer has several ReLU activations such that the constraints on q (5.4) are fulfilled1. An example of controlled trajectory is given in Figure 10.

The results are given in Figure 11 for the comparison of Langevin and non-Langevin algorithms with a single control. We do not display the results for the training with multiple controls however as we could not obtain satisfying results neither with Langevin nor-with non-Langevin methods.
