# REFERENCES

Aguilar, C.O. (2022). An Introduction to Real Analysis, volume 1. Department of Mathematics, State University of New York.   
Cheng, Z., Fan, M.C., and Zhang, H.T. (2015). Distributed mpc based consensus for single-integrator multi-agent systems. ISA Transactions, 58, 112–120.

Jadbabaie, A., Lin, J., and Morse, A.
(2003).
Coordination of groups of mobile autonomous agents using nearest neighbor rules.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 48(6), 988– 1001.
Kusumawardana, A., Habibi, M.A., Wibawanto, S., Wicaksono, H., Prasetya, Y., and Nurrahman, R.
(2019).
Coordination power control of dc water pump system using dual-loop control and consensus algorithm.
In 2019 ICEEIE, volume 6, 37–42.
Li, T.
and Zhang, J.F.
(2010).
Consensus conditions of multiagent systems with time-varying topologies and stochastic communication noises.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 55(9), 2043–2057.
Lunze, J.
(2019).
Networked Control of Multi-Agent Systems, volume 1.
Bookmundo, 1 edition.
Mondal, S.
and Tsourdos, A.
(2022).
The consensus of nonlinear agents under switching topology using dynamic inversion in the presence of communication noise and delay.
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal of Aerospace Engineering, 236(2), 352–367.
Morita, R.
and Ito, S.
(2018).
Weak consensus with discretevalued input and the performance dependency on its network topology.
In 23rd International Symposium on Mathematical Theory of Networks and Systems, 726–728.
Pereira Marca, Y., Duarte, J., Roes, M., and Wijnands, C.
(2021).
Extended operating region of modular multilevel converters using full-bridge sub-modules.
In 23rd EPE ECCE Europe.
IEEE.
Ren, W.
and Beard, R.W.
(2005).
Consensus seeking in multiagent systems under dynamically changing interaction topologies.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 50, 655–661.
Shao, J., Zheng, W.X., Huang, T.Z., and Bishop, A.N.
(2018).
On leader–follower consensus with switching topologies: An analysis inspired by pigeon hierarchies.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 63(10), 3588–3593.
Shokri, M.
and Kebriaei, H.
(2020).
Leader–follower network aggregative game with stochastic agents’ communication and activeness.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 65(12), 5496–5502.
Wei, J., Kun, L., and Themistoklis, C.
(2022).
Multi-agent consensus with heterogeneous time-varying input and communication delays in digraphs.
Automatica, 135, 109950.
Wolfowitz, J.
(1963).
Products of indecomposable, aperiodic, stochastic matrices.
Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, 14(5), 733–737.
Yang, T., Stoorvogel, A., and Saberi, A.
(2011).

Consensus for multi-agent systems — synchronization and regulation for complex networks.
In Proceedings of the American Control Conference, ACC 2011, 5312–5317.
IEEE Control Systems Society.
