Passivity-Based Control of Euler-Lagrange Systems, volume 1.
Springer London, London, November 1998.
[14] Romeo Ortega, Arjan J.
Van der Schaft, Iven Mareels, and Bernhard Maschke.
Putting energy back in control.
IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 21(2):18–33, 2001.
[15] Jerry Pratt, Chee-Meng Chew, Ann Torres, Peter Dilworth, and Gill Pratt.
Virtual Model Control: An Intuitive Approach for Bipedal Locomotion.
The International Journal of Robotics Research, 20(2):129– 143, February 2001.
[16] Christopher Schindlbeck and Sami Haddadin.
Unified passivity-based Cartesian force/impedance control for rigid and flexible joint robots via task-energy tanks.
In 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 440–447, May 2015.
[17] Jean Jacques E.
Slotine.
Putting Physics in Control-The Example of Robotics.
IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 8(6):12–18, 1988.
[18] Jean-Jacques E.
Slotine and Weiping Li.
On the Adaptive Control of Robot Manipulators.
The International Journal of Robotics Research, 6(3):49–59, September 1987.
[19] Peng Song, Yueqing Yu, and Xuping Zhang.
A Tutorial Survey and Comparison of Impedance Control on Robotic Manipulation.
Robotica, 37(5):801–836, 2019.
[20] Morikazu Takegaki and Suguru Arimoto.
A New Feedback Method for Dynamic Control of Manipulators.
Journal of Dynamic Systems, Measurement, and Control, 103(2):119–125, June 1981.
[21] Arjan Van der Schaft.
Port-Hamiltonian Modeling for Control.
Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 3(1):393–416, 2020.
[22] D.
Whitney.
Historical perspective and state of the art in robot force control.
In 1985 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation Proceedings, volume 2, pages 262–268, March 1985.
[23] Jan C.
Willems.
Dissipative dynamical systems part I: General theory.
Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis, 45(5):321–351, January 1972.
[24] Kemin Zhou, John Comstock Doyle, and K.
Glover.
Robust and Optimal Control.
Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, N.J, 1996.
