[DdVB15] Yann Dauphin, Harm de Vries, and Yoshua Bengio.
Equilibrated adaptive learning rates for non-convex optimization.
In Neural Information Processing Systems, 2015.
[DPG+14] Yann N.
Dauphin, Razvan Pascanu, Caglar Gulcehre, Kyunghyun Cho, Surya Ganguli, and Yoshua Bengio.
Identifying and Attacking the Saddle Point Problem in High-Dimensional Non-Convex Optimization.
In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems - Volume 2, NIPS’14, page 2933–2941, Cambridge, MA, USA, 2014.
MIT Press.
[GB10] Xavier Glorot and Yoshua Bengio.
Understanding the difficulty of training deep feedforward neural networks.
In Yee Whye Teh and Mike Titterington, editors, Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, volume 9 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 249–256, Chia Laguna Resort, Sardinia, Italy, 13–15 May 2010.
PMLR.
[GG05] Michael B.
Giles and Paul Glasserman.
Smoking adjoints: fast evaluation of greeks in monte carlo calculations.
Technical Report NA05/15, Oxford University Computing Laboratory, 2005.
[GGKL21] M’hamed Ga¨ıgi, St´ephane Goutte, Idris Kharroubi, and Thomas Lim.
Optimal risk management problem of natural resources: application to oil drilling.
Ann.
Oper.
Res., 297(1-2):147–166, 2021.
[Gil07] Michael B.
Giles.
Monte Carlo evaluation of sensitivities in computational finance.
Technical Report NA07/12, Oxford University Computing Laboratory, 2007.
[GKL18] St´ephane Goutte, Idris Kharroubi, and Thomas Lim.
Optimal management of an oil exploitation.
International Journal of Global Energy Issues, 41(1/2/3/4):69–85, 2018.
[GM05] Emmanuel Gobet and R´emi Munos.
Sensitivity analysis using Itˆo-Malliavin calculus and martingales, and application to stochastic optimal control.
SIAM J.
Control Optim., 43(5):1676–1713, 2005.
[GMDB16] Caglar Gulcehre, Marcin Moczulski, Misha Denil, and Yoshua Bengio.
Noisy activation functions.
In Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on International Conference on Machine Learning - Volume 48, ICML’16, page 3059–3068.
JMLR.org, 2016.
[Han18] Boris Hanin.
Which neural net architectures give rise to exploding and vanishing gradients?
In NeurIPS, pages 580–589, 2018.
[HE16] Jiequn Han and Weinan E.
Deep Learning Approximation for Stochastic Control Problems.
