5.2. Computing Equilibrium of GNEP. Note that if the action space A is compact and convex subset of some finite-dimensional Euclidean space, it should be necessarily uncountably infinite. Hence, even if the state space X is finite set, the action space $\mathcal { M } ( \mathsf { X } \times \mathsf { A } )$ for Player 1 in GNEP is an infinite dimensional space. In the literature, the algorithms developed for GNEPs are in general established for finite dimensional strategy spaces. Therefore, in this section, we suppose that the state space X and the action space A are finite sets. However, this creates a problem because our main theorem (Theorem 4.5) about approximate Nash equilibrium for linear MFGs is valid when A is convex. Hence, it cannot be applied directly to the finite action spaces.

To circumvent this problem, two approaches are possible. In the first one, it is possible to prove asymptotic version of Theorem 4.5; that is, there is no explicit relation between Θ functions and N but it can be proved that Θ functions converge to 0 as $N \to \infty$ . This can be established via the method that is used to prove [34, Theorem 4.1]. To have this asymptotic result, it is enough to have finite X and A. No need to put extra conditions on c¯ and ${ \bar { p } } .$ Hence, in this case, if MFE policy is applied by all the agents in the finite agent game, then it constitutes approximate Nash equilibrium if the number of agents is sufficiently high. But we can not quantify how high it should be.

In the second approach, we can equivalently reformulate the problem by pretending ${ \mathcal { P } } ( { \mathsf { A } } )$ as our action space. In this case, we let $\mathsf { U } : = \mathscr { P } ( \mathsf { A } )$ denote our new action space, which is a convex and compact subset of |A|-dimensional Euclidean space. Then we redefine our transition probability and one stage cost function as follows

$$\bar {p} _ {\text { new }} (\cdot | x, u, z) := \sum_ {a \in \mathsf {A}} \bar {p} (\cdot | x, a, z) u (a)\bar {c} _ {\text { new }} (x, u, z) := \sum_ {a \in \mathsf {A}} \bar {c} (x, a, z) u (a)$$
