$$\lim _ {\| (\zeta , \mu) \| \to \infty} \| \max \{0, \mathbf {h} (\zeta , \mu) \} \| = \infty$$

Hence condition (b) is true. Since $h _ { 1 } ( \zeta , \mu )$ is linear in $\zeta$ given $\mu$ and $h _ { 2 } ( \zeta , \mu )$ is linear in $\mu$ given $\zeta ,$ one can also establish condition (c), which is an extended Mangasarian-Fromovitz constraint qualification condition. □

5.3. A numerical example. We consider the malware spread model studied in [36]. In this model, we suppose that there are large number of agents, where each agent has a local state $x _ { i } ( t ) \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ . Here $x _ { i } ( t ) = 0$ represents the "healthy" state and $x _ { i } ( t ) = 1$ represents the "infected" state. Each agent can take action $a _ { i } ( t ) \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ , where $a _ { i } ( t ) = 0$ represents "do nothing" and $a _ { i } ( t ) = 1$ represents "repair". The dynamics are given by

$$
x _ {i} (t + 1) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} x _ {i} (t) + (1 - x _ {i} (t))   w _ {i} (t), & \text { if } a _ {i} (t) = 0 \\ 0, & \text { if } a _ {i} (t) = 1 \end{array} \right.
$$

where $w _ { i } ( t ) \in \{ 0 , 1 \}$ is a Bernoulli random variable with success probability q, which gives the probability of an agent getting infected. In this setting, if an agent chooses to not take any action, they may be infected with probability q, but if they choose to take a repair action, they return to the healthy state. Each agent pays a cost

$$\bar {c} (x _ {i} (t), a _ {i} (t), z _ {i} (t)) = (k + z _ {i} (t)) x _ {i} (t) + \theta a _ {i} (t)$$

where $z _ { i } ( t ) \sim \mathsf { e } [ \cdot | \mathbf { x } ( t ) ]$ , θ is the cost of repair, and $\left( k + z _ { i } ( t ) \right)$ represents the risk of being infected. In the infinite population limit, the stationary version of the problem is studied and the model is formulated as a generalized Nash equilibrium problem (GNEP). In this GNEP, the cost function for player 2 is taken to be the same as that of player 1. However, note that player 1 controls the distribution of $( x ( t ) , a ( t ) )$ ) and player 2 controls the distribution of $z ( t )$ . For numerical experiments, we use the following system parameters $k = 0 . 2 , \theta = 0 . 5 .$ , $\beta = 0 . 9 , q = 0 . 9$ . We use MATLAB to do the numerical experiments. The algorithm runs for 10000 iterations and uses the following parameters $\sigma _ { k } = 0 . 4 , \eta _ { k } = 0 , \kappa = 0 . 0 0 1$ . Here, we take $\eta _ { k } = 0$ because we use

$$d _ {k} = \left(\nabla H (z _ {k})\right) ^ {- 1} \left(\sigma_ {k} \langle a, H (z _ {k}) \rangle a - H (z _ {k})\right)$$
