[7] J.
Foerster, Y.
Assael, N.
de Freitas, and S.
Whiteson, “Learning to communicate with deep multi-agent reinforcement learning,” in Proc.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Barcelona, 2016.
[8] C.
E.
Shannon and W.
Weaver, “The mathematical theory of communication [1949].
urbana, il,” 1959.
[9] L.
Hu, G.
Wu, Y.
Xing, and F.
Wang, “Things2vec: Semantic modeling in the internet of things with graph representation learning,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol.
7, no.
3, pp.
1939–1948, 2020.
[10] J.
Cai, W.
Zhong, and J.
Luo, “Seminer: Side-information-based semantics miner for proprietary industrial control protocols,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol.
9, no.
22, pp.
22 796–22 810, 2022.
[11] T.-Y.
Tung, S.
Kobus, J.
P.
Roig, and D.
Gund ¨ uz, “Effective communi- ¨ cations: A joint learning and communication framework for multi-agent reinforcement learning over noisy channels,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol.
39, no.
8, pp.
2590–2603, 2021.
[12] M.
P.
Mota, A.
Valcarce, J.-M.
Gorce, and J.
Hoydis, “The emergence of wireless mac protocols with multi-agent reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07144, 2021.
[13] N.
Shlezinger and Y.
C.
Eldar, “Deep task-based quantization,” Entropy, vol.
23, no.
1, p.
104, 2021.
[14] M.
A.
Gutierrez-Estevez, Y.
Wu, and C.
Zhou, “Learning to communicate with intent: An introduction,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09613, 2022.
[15] C.
Zhang, H.
Zou, S.
Lasaulce, W.
Saad, M.
Kountouris, and M.
Bennis, “Goal-oriented communications for the iot and application to data compression,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.05378, 2022.
[16] N.
Shlezinger and Y.
C.
Eldar, “Task-based quantization with application to mimo receivers,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.04290, 2020.
[17] A.
Mostaani, O.
Simeone, S.
Chatzinotas, and B.
Ottersten, “Learningbased physical layer communications for multiagent collaboration,” in 2019 IEEE Intl.
Symp.
on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications, Sep.
2019.
[18] A.
Mostaani, T.
X.
Vu, S.
Chatzinotas, and B.
Ottersten, “Task-oriented data compression for multi-agent communications over bit-budgeted channels,” IEEE Open Journal of the Communications Society, vol.
3, pp.
1867–1886, 2022.
[19] M.
Kountouris and N.
Pappas, “Semantics-empowered communication for networked intelligent systems,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol.
59, no.
6, pp.
96–102, 2021.
