PloS one, 6(11):e27755, 2011.
[21] Christian Wolf, Daniel Gaida, and Michael Bongards.
Online-measurement systems for agricultural and industrial ad plants – a review and practice test.
Kompendium der Forschungsgemeinschaft :metabolon, 2014.

[22] K. Boe and I. Angelidaki. Pilot-scale application of an online vfa sensor for monitoring and control of a manure digester. Water science and technology : a journal of the International Association on Water Pollution Research, 66(11):2496–2503, 2012.   
[23] Jan Liebetrau and Diana Pfeiffer, editors. Collection of Measurement Methods for Biogas, volume 07 of Biomass energy use. Leipzig, Germany, 2 edition, 2020.   
[24] Dan Simon. Optimal state estimation: Kalman, H-infinity, and nonlinear approaches. Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken, NJ, 2006.   
[25] Sandra Díaz-Seoane, Xabier Rey-Barreiro, and Alejandro F. Villaverde. Strike-goldd 4.0: user-friendly, efficient analysis of structural identifiability and observability. arxiv preprint, arXiv:2207.07346, 2022.   
[26] Éric Walter and Luc Pronzato. Identification of parametric models from experimental data. Communications and control engineering series. Springer, London, 1997.   
[27] Nerea Martínez and Alejandro F. Villaverde. Nonlinear observability algorithms with known and unknown inputs: Analysis and implementation. Mathematics, 8(11):1876, 2020.   
[28] Sören Weinrich. Praxisnahe Modellierung von Biogasanlagen: Systematische Vereinfachung des Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). PhD thesis, Universität Rostock, 2017.
