[11] O.
Bernard, Z.
Hadj-Sadok, D.
Dochain, A.
Genovesi, and J.
P.
Steyer.
Dynamical model development and parameter identification for an anaerobic wastewater treatment process.
Biotechnology and bioengineering, 75(4):424–438, 2001.
[12] Shadi Attar and Finn Aakre Haugen.
Comparison of different state estimator algorithms applied to a simulated anaerobic digestion reactor.
In Proceedings of The 59th Conference on Simulation and Modelling (SIMS 59), Linköping Electronic Conference Proceedings, pages 118–125.
Linköping University Electronic Press, 2018.
[13] D.
J.
Batstone, J.
Keller, I.
Angelidaki, S.
V.
Kalyuzhnyi, S.
G.
Pavlostathis, A.
Rozzi, W.T.M.
Sanders, H.
Siegrist, and V.
A.
Vavilin.
The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No 1 (ADM1).
Water science and technology: a journal of the International Association on Water Pollution Research, 45(10):65–73, 2002.
[14] Andres Donoso-Bravo, Johan Mailier, Cristina Martin, Jorge Rodríguez, César Arturo Aceves-Lara, and Alain Vande Wouwer.
Model selection, identification and validation in anaerobic digestion: A review.
Water Research, 45(17):5347–5364, 2011.
[15] Sören Weinrich and Michael Nelles.
Systematic simplification of the anaerobic digestion model no.
1 (ADM1) - model development and stoichiometric analysis: Application.
Bioresource technology, 333:125124, 2021.
[16] Sören Weinrich, Eric Mauky, Thomas Schmidt, Christian Krebs, Jan Liebetrau, and Michael Nelles.
Systematic simplification of the anaerobic digestion model no.
1 (ADM1) - laboratory experiments and model application.
Bioresource technology, 333:125104, 2021.
[17] Milena Anguelova.
Observability and identifiability of nonlinear systems with applications in biology: Univ., Diss., 2007.
Doktorsavhandlingar vid Chalmers Tekniska Högskola.
Chalmers Univ.
of Technology, Göteborg, 2007.
[18] Alejandro F.
Villaverde, Antonio Barreiro, and Antonis Papachristodoulou.
Structural identifiability of dynamic systems biology models.
PLoS computational biology, 12(10):e1005153, 2016.
[19] K.
Maes, M.
N.
Chatzis, and G.
Lombaert.
Observability of nonlinear systems with unmeasured inputs.
Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 130:378–394, 2019.
[20] Oana-Teodora Chis, Julio R.
Banga, and Eva Balsa-Canto.
Structural identifiability of systems biology models: A critical comparison of methods.
