[33] J. Albowicz, A. Chen, and L. Zhang, “Recursive position estimation in sensor networks,” in Proceedings Ninth International Conference on Network Protocols. ICNP 2001. IEEE, 2001, pp. 35–41.   
[34] S. Dorvash and S. Pakzad, “Stochastic iterative modal identification algorithm and application in wireless sensor networks,” Structural Control and Health Monitoring, vol. 20, no. 8, pp. 1121–1137, 2013.   
[35] D. V. Pynadath and M. Tambe, “The communicative multiagent team decision problem: Analyzing teamwork theories and models,” Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, vol. 16, pp. 389–423, Jun. 2002.   
[36] F. A. Oliehoek, M. T. Spaan, N. Vlassis et al., “DEC-PoMDPs with delayed communication,” in Proc. Multi-agent Sequential Decision-Making in Uncertain Domains, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 2007.   
[37] R. Lowe, J. Foerster, Y.-L. Boureau, J. Pineau, and Y. Dauphin, “On the pitfalls of measuring emergent communication,” in Intl. Conf. on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, 2019.   
[38] L. Li, T. J. Walsh, and M. L. Littman, “Towards a unified theory of state abstraction for mdps.” in AI&M, 2006.   
[39] A. K. McCallum, Reinforcement learning with selective perception and hidden state. University of Rochester, 1996.   
[40] R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto, Introduction to reinforcement learning, 2nd ed. MIT Press, Nov. 2017, vol. 135.   
[41] V. Mnih, K. Kavukcuoglu, D. Silver, A. A. Rusu, J. Veness, M. G. Bellemare, A. Graves, M. Riedmiller, A. K. Fidjeland, G. Ostrovski et al., “Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning,” nature, vol. 518, no. 7540, pp. 529–533, 2015.   
[42] P. Xuan, V. Lesser, and S. Zilberstein, “Communication decisions in multi-agent cooperation: Model and experiments,” in Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Autonomous Agents, ser. AGENTS ’01. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2001, p. 616–623. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/375735.376469   
[43] C. Amato, J. S. Dibangoye, and S. Zilberstein, “Incremental policy generation for finite-horizon dec-pomdps,” in Nineteenth International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling, 2009.
