Hence, to find MFE, it is sufficient to compute a pair $( \zeta ^ { * } , \mu ^ { * } )$ that satisfies the properties in Lemma 5.1. To compute such a pair, we now formulate an artificial game with two players, which turns our to be a generalized Nash equilibrium problem and whose Nash equilibrium gives such a pair. In this artificial game, first player represents the generic agent in mean-field game and the second player represents the overall population. To formulate the problem, we need to define another cost function in addition to $\langle \zeta , c _ { \mu } \rangle$ . This new cost function will serve as the cost of the second player in the game. It is important to note that we are completely free to choose this cost function. Hence, one can think of this additional cost as a design parameter that can be used to achieve certain objectives. Let $g : \mathcal { M } ( \mathsf { X } \times \mathsf { A } ) \times \mathcal { M } ( \mathsf { X } ) \to [ 0 , \infty )$ be some continuous function of $( \zeta , \mu )$ . Then we define the following generalized Nash equilibrium problem

$$
\begin{array}{c c} \text {Player 1} & \text {Player 2} \\ \text {Given} \mu \text {: minimize} _ {\zeta \in \mathcal {M} _ {+} (\mathsf {X} \times \mathsf {A})} \langle \zeta , c _ {\mu} \rangle & \text {Given} \zeta \text {: minimize} _ {\mu \in \mathcal {M} _ {+} (\mathsf {X})} g (\zeta , \mu) \\ \text {subject to} \hat {\zeta} = (1 - \beta) \mu + \beta   \zeta   p _ {\mu} & \text {subject to} \mu = \zeta   p _ {\mu} \end{array}
$$

Note that in above game, both the cost function and the admissible strategy sets are coupled to each other. Therefore, it is indeed a generalized Nash equilibrium problem (see the survey paper [12] for an introduction to GNEPs). Hence, we can use techniques developed for such games for computing MFE.

The following result is obvious in view of Lemma 5.1.

LEMMA 5.2. $H \left( \zeta ^ { * } , \mu ^ { * } \right)$ is an equilibrium solution of the above GNEP, then $( \mu ^ { * } , \pi ^ { * } )$ is MFE, where $\zeta ^ { * } ( d x , d a ) = \pi ^ { * } ( d a | x ) \hat { \zeta } ^ { * } ( d x )$ .

In general, GNEP problems are formulated via inequality constraints instead of equality constraints. Although it is possible to transform equality constraints into inequality constraints by doubling the number of constraints, we can alternatively formulate above GNEP via inequality constraints without increasing the number of constraints much as follows.
