In this case, it is possible to apply Theorem 4.5 if assumption (a)–(g) are true. However, although $\bar { p } _ { \mathrm { n e w } }$ and $\bar { c } _ { \mathrm { n e w } }$ are linear in u (and so convex), they are not strongly convex in u. Hence assumption (d) is not true for this new formulation. To handle this problem, a common approach is to add a strongly convex regularization term to the cost function $\bar { c } _ { \mathrm { n e w } }$ (see [3]). In regularized version, the cost function is given by

$$\bar {c} ^ {\mathrm{reg}} (x, u, z) := \bar {c} _ {\mathrm{new}} (x, u, z) + \lambda h (u)$$

where h is a θ-strongly convex function and $\lambda > 0$ is some constant. A typical example for h is the negative entropy $\begin{array} { r } { h ( u ) = \sum _ { a \in \mathsf { A } } \ln ( u ( a ) ) u ( a ) } \end{array}$ . By choosing θ and λ properly, it is possible to satisfy the assumptions $\mathrm { ( a ) - ( g ) }$ , in particular assumption (d). If θ and λ are small enough, then one can prove that equilibrium solutions of un-regularized problems (both for finite population case and infinite population case) are approximately equilibrium solutions for regularized problems. Since Theorem 4.5 can be applied to regularized problem, in view of the last observation, it can be applied to the un-regularized original setup as well with an additional error as a result of regularization term $\lambda h ( u )$ .

The previous discussions provide sufficient justification for why the action space in the model can be considered finite. Indeed, extending the below algorithm being introduced to the infinite dimensional action spaces is a future research direction. In general, solving GNEP problems with finite dimensional action spaces is already very challenging problem. There are a limited number of algorithms available in the literature that can be used for the most general formulation of GNEPs (see [9]). It may be difficult to generalize the existing algorithms or develop new ones for infinite dimensional GNEPs.

Let us now give a more explicit formulation of inequality constrained GNEP that is introduced in the previous section, when state and action spaces are finite.
