Large population stochastic dynamic games: Closed loop McKean-Vlasov sysyems and the Nash certainity equivalence principle.
Communications in Information Systems 6 221–252.
[25] LASRY, J.
and LIONS, P.
(2007).
Mean field games.
Japan.
J.
Math.
2 229–260.
[26] LIGHT, B.
and WEINTRAUB, G.
Y.
(2022).
Mean Field Equilibrium: Uniqueness, Existence, and Comparative Statics.
Operations Research 70 585-605.
[27] MONTEIRO, R.
D.
C.
and PANG, J.-S.
(1999).
A Potential Reduction Newton Method for Constrained Equations.
SIAM Journal on Optimization 9 729-754.
[28] MOON, J.
and BASAR, T.
(2015).
Discrete-time decentralized control using the risk-sensitive performance criterion in the large population regime: a mean field approach.
In ACC 2015.
[29] MOON, J.
and BASAR, T.
(2016).
Robust mean field games for coupled Markov jump linear systems.
International Journal of Control 89 1367-1381.
[30] MOON, J.
and BASAR, T.
(2016).
Discrete-time mean field Stackelberg games with a large number of followers.
In CDC 2016.
[31] MOON, J.
and BASAR, T.
(2018).
Linear quadratic mean field Stackelberg differential games.
Automatica 97 200-213.
[32] MOON, J.
and BASAR, T.
(2019).
Risk-Sensitive Mean Field Games via the Stochastic Maximum Principle.
Dynamic Games and Applications 1-26.
[33] NOURIAN, M.
and NAIR, G.
N.
(2013).
Linear-quadratic-Gaussian mean field games under high rate quantization.
In CDC 2013.
[34] SALDI, N., BASAR, T.
and RAGINSKY, M.
(2018).
Markov–Nash Equilibria in Mean-Field Games with Discounted Cost.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization 56 4256-4287.
[35] SALDI, N., YÜKSEL, S.
and LINDER, T.
(2017).
On the Asymptotic Optimality of Finite Approximations to Markov Decision Processes with Borel Spaces.
Mathematics of Operations Research 42 945-978.
[36] SUBRAMANIAN, J.
and MAHAJAN, A.
(2019).
Reinforcement Learning in Stationary Mean-Field Games.
251-259.
International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems.
[37] TEMBINE, H., ZHU, Q.
and BASAR, T.
(2014).
Risk-sensitive mean field games.
IEEE.
Trans.
Autom.
Control 59 835–850.

[38] VILLANI, C. (2009). Optimal transport: Old and New. Springer.   
[39] WEINTRAUB, G. Y., BENKARD, C. L. and ROY, B. V. (2008). Markov perfect industry dynamics with many firms. Econometrica 76 1375–1411.   
[40] WEINTRAUB, G., BENKARD, L. and VAN ROY, B. (2005). Oblivious Equilibrium: A Mean Field Approximation for Large-Scale Dynamic Games. In Advances in Neural Information Processing System.   
[41] WEINTRAUB, G. Y., BENKARD, C. L. and VAN ROY, B. (2010). Computational Methods for Oblivious Equilibrium. Operations Research 58 1247-1265.
