[9] DREVES, A., FACCHINEI, F., KANZOW, C.
and SAGRATELLA, S.
(2011).
On the solution of the KKT conditions of generalized Nash equilibrium problems.
SIAM Journal on Optimization 21 1082-1108.
[10] DUDLEY, R.
M.
(2004).
Real Analysis and Probability.
Cambridge University Press.
[11] ELLIOT, R., LI, X.
and NI, Y.
(2013).
Discrete time mean-field stochastic linear-quadratic optimal control problems.
Automatica 49 3222–3233.
[12] FACCHINEI, F.
and KANZOW, C.
(2010).
Generalized Nash equilibrium problems.
Annals of Operations Research 175 177-211.
[13] FACCHINEI, F.
and PANG, J.-S.
(2003).
Finite-dimensional variational inequalities and complementarity problems.
Springer.
[14] FOURNIER, N.
and GUILLIN, A.
(2015).
On the rate of convergence in Wasserstein distance of the empirical measure.
Probability Theory and Related Fields 162 707–738.
[15] GOMES, D.
A., MOHR, J.
and SOUZA, R.
R.
(2010).
Discrete time, finite state space mean field games.
J.
Math.
Pures Appl.
93 308–328.
[16] GOMES, D.
A.
and SAÚDE, J.
(2014).
Mean field games models - a brief survey.
Dyn.
Games Appl.
4 110–154.
[17] GOTTLIEB, L.-A., KONTOROVICH, A.
and KRAUTHGAMER, R.
(2016).
Adaptive metric dimensionality reduction.
Theoretical Computer Science 620 105-118.
[18] GOTTLIEB, L.-A., KONTOROVICH, A.
and KRAUTHGAMER, R.
(2017).
Efficient Regression in Metric Spaces via Approximate Lipschitz Extension.
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 63 4838- 4849.
[19] HERNANDEZ-LERMA, O.
and GONZALEZ-HERNANDEZ, J.
(2000).
Constrained Markov control processes in Borel spaces:the discounted case.
Math.
Meth.
Oper.
Res.
52 271–285.
[20] HERNÁNDEZ-LERMA, O.
and LASSERRE, J.
B.
(1996).
Discrete-Time Markov Control Processes: Basic Optimality Criteria.
Springer.
[21] HUANG, M.
(2010).
Large-population LQG games involving major player: The Nash certainity equivalence principle.
SIAM J.
Control Optim.
48 3318–3353.
[22] HUANG, M., CAINES, P.
E.
and MALHAMÉ, R.
P.
(2007).
Large-population cost coupled LQG problems with nonuniform agents: Individual-mass behavior and decentralized ǫ-Nash equilibria.
IEEE.
Trans.
Autom.
Control 52 1560–1571.
[23] HUANG, M.
and MA, Y.
(2019).
Binary Mean Field Stochastic Games: Stationary Equilibria and Comparative Statics.
Modeling, Stochastic Control, Optimization, and Applications.
[24] HUANG, M., MALHAMÉ, R.
P.
and CAINES, P.
E.
(2006).
