[13] A.
Ern and J.
Guermond, Finite Elements II: Galerkin Approximation, Elliptic and Mixed PDEs, Texts in Applied Mathematics, Springer International Publishing, 2021.
[14] L.
Evans, Partial Differential Equations, Graduate studies in mathematics, American Mathematical Society, 2010.
[15] H.
O.
Fattorini, Boundary control systems, SIAM Journal on Control, 6 (1968), pp.
349–385.
[16] A.
Festa and S.
Göttlich, A mean field game approach for multi-lane traffic management, IFAC-PapersOnLine, 51 (2018), pp.
793–798.
[17] A.
Friedman, Stochastic differential games, Journal of differential equations, 11 (1972), pp.
79–108.
[18] D.
Gilbarg and N.
Trudinger, Elliptic Partial Differential Equations of Second Order, Classics in Mathematics, Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2015.
[19] K.
Huang, X.
Di, Q.
Du, and X.
Chen, Stabilizing traffic via autonomous vehicles: A continuum mean field game approach, in 2019 IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Conference (ITSC), IEEE, 2019, pp.
3269–3274.
[20] A.
N.
Kolmogorov and S.
V.
Fomin, Introductory real analysis, Courier Corporation, 1975.
[21] J.-M.
Lasry and P.-L.
Lions, Mean field games, Japanese journal of mathematics, 2 (2007), pp.
229–260.
[22] M.
J.
Lighthill and G.
B.
Whitham, On kinematic waves ii.
a theory of traffic flow on long crowded roads, Proceedings of the Royal Society of London.
Series A.
Mathematical and Physical Sciences, 229 (1955), pp.
317–345.
[23] P.
Lions, Optimal control of reflected diffusion processes, in Filtering and Control of Random Processes, Springer, 1984, pp.
157–163.
[24] , Optimal stochastic control with state constraints, in Stochastic Differential Systems Filtering and Control, Springer, 1985, pp.
286–295.
[25] P.-L.
Lions and A.-S.
Sznitman, Stochastic differential equations with reflecting boundary conditions, Communications on pure and applied Mathematics, 37 (1984), pp.
511–537.
[26] H.
Neunzert, An introduction to the nonlinear boltzmann-vlasov equation, in Kinetic theories and the Boltzmann equation, Springer, 1984, pp.
60–110.
[27] B.
Øksendal, Stochastic Differential Equations: An Introduction with Applications, Universitext, Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2010.
[28] A.
Pazy, Semigroups of linear operators and applications to partial differential equations, Applied Mathematical Sciences, 44 (1983).
[29] A.
