$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathcal {K} [ g _ {k} ] (\lambda_ {k} ^ {\varepsilon}, \rho_ {k}) + J _ {k + 1} (f _ {k \#} \lambda_ {k} ^ {\varepsilon}, \rho_ {k + 1}, \dots , \rho_ {N}) \\ \stackrel {\heartsuit} {=} \inf _ {\boldsymbol {\gamma} ^ {\prime} \in \Gamma (\lambda_ {k} ^ {\varepsilon}, \rho)} \int_ {X _ {k} \times U _ {k} \times R} c _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, y)   \mathrm{d} \boldsymbol {\gamma} ^ {\prime} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, r) \\ \leq \int_ {X _ {k} \times U _ {k} \times R} c _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, r) \mathrm{d} \tilde {\gamma} _ {k} ^ {\varepsilon} (x _ {k}, u _ {k}, r) \\ \stackrel {(6. 2)} {=} \int_ {X _ {k} \times R} c _ {k} (x _ {k}, u _ {k} ^ {\varepsilon / 2} (x _ {k}, y), r)   \mathrm{d} \boldsymbol {\gamma} _ {k} ^ {\varepsilon / 2} (x _ {k}, r) \\ \stackrel {(3. 3)} {\leq} \frac {\varepsilon}{2} + \int_ {X _ {k} \times R} j _ {k} (x _ {k}, r) \mathrm{d} \boldsymbol {\gamma} _ {k} ^ {\varepsilon / 2} (x _ {k}, r) \\ \stackrel {(2. 3)} {\leq} \varepsilon + J _ {k} (\mu_ {k}, \rho), \\ \end{array}
$$

where, in $\heartsuit .$ , we used the definition of $c _ { k }$ (see (6.1)), Lemma 6.1, and Lemma 6.2. Overall, $\lambda _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon }$ is an ε-optimal control input at $\mu _ { k }$ . When $\varepsilon = 0$ , the infima are attained and we obtain the optimal state-input distribution $\lambda _ { k } ^ { * }$ .

(iii) The statement follows from (ii), plugging in the given maps $u _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$ 2 a nd T ε/ 2k . $T _ { k } ^ { \varepsilon / 2 }$

Lemma 6.5. For any Borel map $\phi : X  U ,$ the measure-valued map $h : X \to$ P(U) defined for every $x \in X$ as $h ( x ) : = \delta _ { \phi ( x ) }$ is Borel.

Proof. To show this, we can equivalently show that, for every $B \subseteq U$ Borel, the pre-image of the intervals $[ a , + \infty ]$ , for $a \ \in \ \mathbb { R }$ , of $x \mapsto h ( x ) ( B )$ is Borel. Define $h _ { B } : U \to \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ for every $u \in U$ as $u \mapsto h _ { B } ( u ) : = \delta _ { u } ( B )$ . Then

$$
h _ {B} ^ {- 1} ([ a, + \infty)) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \emptyset & \text { if } a > 1 \\ B & \text { if } a \in (0, 1 ] \\ U & \text { otherwise. } \end{array} \right.
$$

In all cases, $h _ { B } ^ { - 1 } ( [ a , + \infty ) )$ is Borel set, and thus the map $h _ { B }$ is Borel. Since the composition of Borel maps is a Borel map, $h _ { B } \circ \phi$ is Borel. Therefore, the measurevalued map h is Borel. □
