# REFERENCES

[1] M.
Agueh and G.
Carlier, Barycenters in the Wasserstein Space, SIAM Journal on Mathematical Analysis, 43 (2011), pp.
904–924.
[2] G.
Albi, L.
Pareschi, and M.
Zanella, On the optimal control of opinion dynamics on evolving networks, in IFIP Conference on System Modeling and Optimization, Springer, 2015, pp.
58–67.
[3] C.
D.
Aliprantis and K.
C.
Border, Infinite Dimensional Analysis: a Hitchhiker’s Guide, Springer, Berlin;
London, 2006.
[4] J.
M.
Altschuler and E.
Boix-Adsera, Wasserstein barycenters can be computed in polynomial time in fixed dimension, Journal of Machine Learning Research, 22 (2021).
[5] L.
Ambrosio, N.
Gigli, and G.
Savar´e, Gradient Flows: In Metric Spaces and in the Space of Probability Measures, Birkh¨auser Basel, 1 ed., 2008.
[6] L.
Aolaritei, N.
Lanzetti, H.
Chen, and F.
Dorfler ¨ , Distributional uncertainty propagation via optimal transport, arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.00343, (2022).
[7] F.
Arqu´e, C.
A.
Uribe, and C.
Ocampo-Martinez, Approximate Wasserstein attraction flows for dynamic mass transport over networks, Automatica, 143 (2022), p.
110432.
[8] E.
Bakolas, Optimal covariance control for discrete-time stochastic linear systems subject to constraints, in 55th Conference on Decision and Control, 2016, pp.
1153–1158.
[9] E.
Bakolas, Covariance control for discrete-time stochastic linear systems with incomplete state information, in 2017 American Control Conference, 2017.
[10] E.
Bakolas, Constrained minimum variance control for discrete-time stochastic linear systems, Systems & Control Letters, 113 (2018), pp.
109–116.
[11] E.
Bakolas, Finite-horizon covariance control for discrete-time stochastic linear systems subject to input constraints, Automatica, 91 (2018).
[12] I.
M.
Balci and E.
Bakolas, Covariance control of discrete-time Gaussian linear systems using affine disturbance feedback control policies, in 60th Conference on Decision and Control, 2021, pp.
2324–2329.
[13] J.-D.
Benamou and Y.
Brenier, A computational fluid mechanics solution to the Monge-Kantorovich mass transfer problem, Numerische Mathematik, 84 (2000), pp.
375–393.
[14] D.
Bertsekas, Abstract dynamic programming, Athena Scientific, 2022.
[15] D.
Bertsekas and S.
E.
Shreve, Stochastic Optimal Control The Discrete-time Case, vol.
5, Athena Scientific, 1996.
[16] D.
P.
Bertsekas, Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control, vol.
