# 3.3 Numerical example

The following example is taken from [24] where the author illustrated that there proposed global existence conditions for the Riccati equations are only sufficient. Here we will illustrate the necessity of our conditions.

Let us consider:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} d x (t) = \left(u _ {1} (t) + u _ {2} (t)\right) d t, t [ 0, 1 ] \\ x (0) = x \in \mathbb {R} \end{array} \right. \tag {139}
$$

The performance criterion is:

$$J (x; u _ {1} (\cdot), u _ {2} (\cdot)) = \mathbb {E} \left[ - 2 x ^ {2} (1) + \int_ {0} ^ {1} \left(u _ {1} ^ {2} (t) - \frac {2}{3} u _ {2} ^ {2} (t)\right) d t \right] \tag {140}$$

The corresponding Riccati equation is:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {X} (t) - X ^ {2} (t) + \frac {3}{2} X ^ {2} (t) = 0 \\ X (1) = - 2 \end{array} \right. \tag {141}
$$

Its solution is $\begin{array} { r } { X ( t ) = \frac { 2 } { t - 2 } } \end{array}$ which is defined on the whole interval [0, 1]. In (139) and (140) the mean field terms are zero. Hence, the other Riccati equation is:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {\hat {X}} (t) - \hat {X} (t) \left( \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 1 \end{array} \right) \tilde {R} ^ {- 1} (t) \binom{1}{1} \hat {X} (t) = 0 \\ \hat {X} (1) = 0 \end{array} \right. \tag {142}
$$

where $\tilde { R } ( t ) \triangleq \left( \begin{array} { c c } { { 1 } } & { { 0 } } \\ { { 0 } } & { { - \frac { 2 } { 3 } } } \end{array} \right)$ Its solution is ${ \hat { X } } ( t ) = 0 , \forall t \in [ 0 , \ 1 ]$ . We will show that the conditions from Theorem 3.17 are necessary conditions for the global existence of the solutions of the two Riccati equations (141) and (142). More precisely, we shall show that there exist two pairs of continuous functions $\Big ( \Phi ( \cdot ) , \ \hat { \Phi } ( \cdot ) \Big )$ and $\Big ( K ( \cdot ) , \hat { K } ( \cdot ) \Big )$ such that:

$$\mathcal {J} _ {\Phi} ^ {\hat {\Phi}} (0; u _ {1} (\cdot)) \geq \delta \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {1} u _ {1} ^ {2} (t) d t \right] \tag {143}$$

for all $u _ { 1 } ( \cdot )$ from the set of admissible controls of player 1 and:

$$\mathcal {J} _ {K} ^ {\hat {K}} (0; u _ {2} (\cdot)) \leq - \hat {\delta} \mathbb {E} \left[ \int_ {0} ^ {1} u _ {2} ^ {2} (t) d t \right] \tag {144}$$

for all $u _ { 2 } ( \cdot )$ from the set of admissible controls of player 2, where $\delta > 0 , \hat { \delta } > 0$ are constants.

We will not go through all the computational details, note however that by using Lemma 2.3 from [20] we show that the following choice of pairs of continuous functions:

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \Phi (t) = \frac {3}{2} X (t) \\ \hat {\Phi} (t) = 0 \\ K (t) = X (t) \\ \hat {K} (t) = 0, t \in [ 0, 1 ] \end{array} \right. \tag {145}
$$

where X(t) is the solution of the Riccati equation (141), leads to the desired result.
