Pilipenko, An introduction to stochastic differential equations with reflection, vol.
1, Universitätsverlag Potsdam, 2014.
[30] I.
Prigogine and F.
C.
Andrews, A boltzmann-like approach for traffic flow, Operations Research, 8 (1960), pp.
789–797.
[31] P.
I.
Richards, Shock waves on the highway, Operations research, 4 (1956), pp.
42–51.

[32] C.-W. Shu and S. Osher, Efficient implementation of essentially nonoscillatory shock-capturing schemes, Journal of computational physics, 77 (1988), pp. 439–471.   
[33] J. Simon, Compact sets in the space lp(0, t; b), Annali di Matematica pura ed applicata, 146 (1986), pp. 65–96.   
[34] H. Tanaka, Stochastic differential equations with reflecting boundary condition in convex regions, Hiroshima Mathematical Journal, 9 (1979), pp. 163–177.   
[35] M. Taylor, Partial Differential Equations II: Qualitative Studies of Linear Equations, Applied Mathematical Sciences, Springer New York, 2010.   
[36] A. Tirumalai and J. S. Baras, A robust mean-field game of boltzmann-vlasovlike traffic flow, arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.06426, (2021).   
[37] S. Watanabe, On stochastic differential equations for multi-dimensional diffusion processes with boundary conditions, Journal of Mathematics of Kyoto University, 11 (1971), pp. 169–180.   
[38] H. Yu, S. Park, A. Bayen, S. Moura, and M. Krstic, Reinforcement learning versus pde backstepping and pi control for congested freeway traffic, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, (2021).

June 6, 2023

Amoolya Tirumalai, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering & Institute for Systems Research, University of Maryland, 8223 Paint Branch Dr, College Park, MD 20740, USA. • E-mail : ast256@umd.edu

John S. Baras, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering & Institute for Systems Research, University of Maryland, 8223 Paint Branch Dr, College Park, MD 20740, USA. • E-mail : baras@umd.edu
