# VI. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK

In this paper, a data-driven control and transfer learning approach has been proposed and demonstrated in two examples. The idea is to train a neural auto-encoder structure to represent the original system in a canonical Brunosvky structure and then to apply a standard controller design from linear control theory. The design was validated in simulations on a pair of single-mast stacker cranes, where a nominal controller was learned on a nominal crane and then transferred to a crane identical in construction, but with modified parameters. Based on the indirect data-driven feedback linearization and the resulting discrete-time Brunovsky form, trajectories were planned and stabilized for a change in operating points. The transferred controller was able to improve its performance and reduce the need for manual adjustments after a relearning phase, where even occurring vibrations could be suppressed. In terms of future work, the authors of this paper highlighted several directions that will be explored, such as extending the approach to a single-mast stacker crane with lifting unit leading to a MIMO system. In this context, the idea is to learn the representation of a multidimensional canonical structure. For this purpose, it will be necessary to deduce the lengths of the shift register chains on the basis of historical sensor data, in order to avoid the chain lengths as an additional hyperparameter. Furthermore, the assumption that dim $( z _ { k } ) = \dim ( x _ { k } )$ restricts this approach to input-state linearizable systems, which can be extended to the identification of flat systems by allowing dim $( z _ { k } ) \ > \ \dim ( x _ { k } )$ . Similarly, the authors also plan to investigate different and modified neural network structures to accelerate and improve the training process, such as incorporating a priori model information or bypassing the transformation constraints of the auto-encoder.
