# REFERENCES

[1] M.
Alsalti, J.
Berberich, V.
G.
Lopez, F.
Allgower, and M.
A.
M ¨ uller, ¨ “Data-based system analysis and control of flat nonlinear systems,” 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp.
1484–1489, 2021.
[2] S.
Barrett, M.
E.
Taylor, and P.
Stone, “Transfer learning for reinforcement learning on a physical robot,” in Adaptive Agents and Multi-Agent Systems, 2010.
[3] J.
Diwold, B.
Kolar, and M.
Schoberl, “Discrete-time flatness-based¨ control of a gantry crane,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
119, 2 2022.
[4] ——, “A trajectory-based approach to discrete-time flatness,” IEEE Control System Letters, vol.
6, pp.
289–294, 2022.
[5] L.
Ecker, T.
Malzer, A.
Wahrburg, and M.
Schoberl, “Observer design ¨ for a single mast stacker crane,” at - Automatisierungstechnik, vol.
69, no.
9, pp.
806–816, 2021.
[6] D.
Gadginmath, V.
Krishnan, and F.
Pasqualetti, “Data-driven feedback linearization using the koopman generator,” 2022.
[7] J.
W.
Grizzle, “Feedback linearization of discrete-time systems,” in Analysis and Optimization of Systems.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1986, pp.
273–281.
[8] A.
Isidori, Nonlinear Control Systems, ser.
Communications and Control Engineering.
Springer London, 1995.
[9] V.
Krishnan and F.
Pasqualetti, “On direct vs indirect data-driven predictive control,” 12 2021, pp.
736–741.
[10] B.
Lusch, J.
Kutz, and S.
Brunton, “Deep learning for universal linear embeddings of nonlinear dynamics,” Nature Communications, vol.
9, 11 2018.
[11] B.
Maschler and M.
Weyrich, “Deep transfer learning for industrial automation: A review and discussion of new techniques for data-driven machine learning,” IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine, vol.
15, no.
2, pp.
65–75, 2021.
[12] H.
Nijmeijer and A.
Schaft, van der, Nonlinear dynamical control systems, corrected 2nd print.
ed.
Springer, 1991.
[13] H.
Rams, M.
Schoberl, and K.
Schlacher, “Optimal motion planning ¨ and energy-based control of a single mast stacker crane,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
26, no.
4, pp.
1449– 1457, 2018.
[14] J.
A.
K.
Suykens, J.
Vandewalle, and B.
D.
Moor, “Artificial neural networks for modelling and control of non-linear systems,” 1995.
[15] T.
Westenbroek, D.
Fridovich-Keil, E.
Mazumdar, S.
Arora, V.
Prabhu, S.
S.
Sastry, and C.
J.

Tomlin, “Feedback linearization for uncertain systems via reinforcement learning,” in 2020 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
1364–1371.
[16] A.
Yes¸ildirek and F.
Lewis, “Feedback linearization using neural networks,” Automatica, vol.
31, no.
11, pp.
1659–1664, 1995.
[17] S.
zAhin, “Learning feedback linearization using artificial neural ´ networks,” Neural Process.
Lett., vol.
44, no.
3, p.
625–637, dec 2016.
