# REFERENCES

[1] M.E.J.Newman,“The Structure and Function o fComplex Networks,” SIAM Review,vol.45,no.2,pp.167–256, Jan.2003.
[2] S.
Boccaletti, V.
Latora, Y.
Moreno, M.
Chavez, and D.
U.
Hwang, “Complex networks: Structure and dynamics,” Physics Reports, vol.
424, no.
4, pp.
175–308, Feb.
2006.
[3] S.
H.
Strogatz, “Exploring complex networks,” Nature, vol.
410, no.
6825, pp.
268–276, Mar.
2001.
[4] C.
Pan, Y.
Zhu, M.
Yu, Y.
Zhao, C.
Zhang, X.
Zhang, and Y.
Yao, “Control Analysis of Protein-Protein Interaction Network Reveals Po tential Regulatory Targets for MYCN,” Frontiers in Oncology, vol.
11, p.
633579, Apr.
2021.
[5] X.
Zhang, “Altering Indispensable Proteins in Controlling Directed Human Protein Interaction Network,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Com putational Biology and Bioinformatics, vol.
15, no.
6, pp.
2074–2078, Nov.
2018.
[6] X.
Zhang, C.
Pan, X.
Wei, M.
Yu, S.
Liu, J.
An, J.
Yang, B.
Wei, W.
Hao, Y.
Yao, Y.
Zhu, and W.
Zhang, “Cancer-Keeper Genes as Therapeutic Targets,” iScience, vol.
26, no.
8, p.
107296, Aug.
2023.
[7] X.
Wei, C.
Pan, X.
Zhang, and W.
Zhang, “Total network controllability analysis discovers explainable drugs for covid-19 treatment,” Biology Direct, vol.
18, no.
1, p.
55, 2023.
[8] D.
Zhou, Y.
Kang, D.
Cosme, M.
Jovanova, X.
He, A.
Mahadevan, J.
Ahn, O.
Stanoi, J.
K.
Brynildsen, N.
Cooper, E.
J.
Cornblath, L.
Parkes, P.
J.
Mucha, K.
N.
Ochsner, D.
M.
Lydon-Staley, E.
B.
Falk, and D.
S.
Bassett, “Mindful Attention Promotes Control of Brain Network Dynamics for Self-Regulation and Discontinues the Past from the Present,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol.
120, no.
2, p.
e2201074119, Jan.
2023.
[9] X.
He, L.
Caciagli, L.
Parkes, J.
Stiso, T.
M.
Karrer, J.
Z.
Kim, Z.
Lu, T.
Menara, F.
Pasqualetti, M.
R.
Sperling, J.
I.
Tracy, and D.
S.
Bassett, “Uncovering the Biological Basis of Control Energy: Structural and Metabolic Correlates of Energy Inefficiency in Temporal Lobe Epilepsy,” Science Advances, vol.
8, no.
45, p.
eabn2293, Nov.
2022.
[10] L.
Tang, P.
Zhao, C.
Pan, Y.
Song, J.
Zheng, R.
Zhu, F.
Wang, and Y.
Tang, “Epigenetic molecular underpinnings of brain structural functional connectivity decoupling in patients with major depressive disorder,” Journal of Affective Disorders, vol.
363, pp.
249–257, 2024.
[11] C.
Pan, Y.
Ma, L.
Wang, Y.
Zhang, F.
Wang, and X.
