# References

[1] J. Barreiro-Gomez, T. E. Duncan, and H. Tembine. Linear-Quadratic Mean-Field-Type Games: Jump-Diffusion Process With Regime Switching, IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr., 64, pp. 4329?4336, 2019.   
[2] A. Bensoussan, J. Frehse, P. Yam. Mean Field Games and Mean Field Type Control Theory. Springer, New York, 2013.   
[3] A. Bensoussan, K. C. J. Sung, S. C. P. Yam, S. P. Yung. Linear quadratic mean-field games. J. Optim. Theory Appl., 169:496–529, 2016.   
[4] P. E. Caines, M. Huang, R. P. Malham´e. Mean Field Games. In Handbook of Dynamic Game Theory, T. Bassar and G. Zaccour Eds., Springer, Berlin, 345-372, 2017.   
[5] R. Carmona and F. Delarue. Probabilistic Theory of Mean Field Games with Applications, I?II, Springer Nature, 2018.   
[6] V. Dragan, T. Morozan and A.M. Stoica. Mathematical Methods in Robust Control of Linear Stochastic Systems, 2nd edn, New York: Springer, 2013.   
[7] V. Dragan, S. Aberkane, T. Morozan. On the bounded and stabilizing solution of a generalized Riccati differential equation arising in connection with a zero-sum linear quadratic stochastic differential game. Optimal Control Applications and Methods, 41, 2020.   
[8] O. Gu´eant, J.-M. Lasry, P.-L. Lions. Mean field games and applications. In Paris-Princeton Lectures on Mathematical Finance, Springer, 205-266, 2011.   
[9] P. J. Graber. Linear quadratic mean field type control and mean field games with common noise, with application to production of an exhaustible resource, Appl. Math. Optim., 74, pp. 459?486, 2016.
