Figure 3. The evolution of the HJB-I error as time progresses. The error oscillates as the vehicles move around the track, and generally decreases over time, indicating that ADP process begins to learn the optimal control and disturbance.

5.2. Numerical Methods. — Let the numerical solution of the FK equation be piecewise constant, denoted by ${ \hat { \rho } } : [ 0 , T ] \times Y \  \ \mathbb { R }$ , and the numerical solution of the weights of the value function be piecewise constant $\hat { A } , \hat { B } : [ 0 , T ] \to \mathbb { R } ^ { K \times K }$ . For a detailed description of our numerical methods for the FK equation, please refer to our work in [36]. In short, we discretize the FK equation in space using the finite volume method. We use the Rusanov numerical fluxes to approximate the hyperbolic part, and the second-order central difference method on the parabolic part. Both the numerical solution of the FK equation and the numerical solution of the value function weights were time-marched using the stability preserving second-order Runge-Kutta scheme [32]. We took our timestep to be $\Delta t = . 0 0 2 5$ , and took $8 1 ^ { 2 }$ grid points in position-speed.

5.3. Discussion of Numerical Results. — To begin this discussion, we first describe some macroscopic quantities related to the vehicle dynamics. Define the spatial density $\mathbf { r } _ { 1 } : [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { T }  \mathbb { R }$ , and the momentum density $\mathbf { j } : [ 0 , T ] \times \mathbb { T }  \mathbb { R }$ :

$$\mathbf {r} _ {1} (t, \cdot) := \int_ {\mathbb {R}} \rho (t, \cdot) d y _ {2},\mathbf {j} (t, \cdot) := \int_ {\mathbb {R}} y _ {2} \rho (t, \cdot) d y _ {2} =: \mathbf {r} _ {1} (t, \cdot) \mathbf {v} (t, \cdot),$$

under the assumption that $\rho ( t , \cdot )$ is extended by 0 for $y _ { 2 } \notin \left[ 0 , s _ { m a x } \right]$ . We integrate the FK equation over $y _ { 2 } \in \mathbb { R }$ , and we obtain:

$$\partial_ {t} \mathbf {r} _ {1} + \partial_ {y _ {1}} (\mathbf {r} _ {1} \mathbf {v}) = 0 \mathrm{in} (0, T ] \times \mathbb {T}$$

with $\mathbf { r } _ { 1 } ( t , y _ { 1 } ) = \mathbf { r } _ { 1 } ( t , y _ { 1 } + \mathfrak { L } )$ , and initial conditions obtained from $\rho _ { 0 }$ . We obtain spatial density $\hat { \mathbf { r } } _ { 1 } ( t , \cdot )$ and bulk velocity $\hat { \mathbf { v } } ( \cdot , t )$ numerically from $\hat { \rho } ( \cdot , t )$ via Riemann sums. These are plotted in Fig. 1. We also plot the numerical version of:

$$\mathbf {r} _ {2} (t, \cdot) := \int_ {\mathbb {R}} \rho (t, \cdot) d y _ {1},$$
