Hajimani, Z.
A.
Z.
S.
Dashti, and A.
Pisano, “Distributed robust finite-time non-linear consensus protocol for high-order multi-agent systems via coupled sliding mode control,” in 2019 6th International Conference on Control, Instrumentation and Automation (ICCIA).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
1–6.
[14] H.
Wu, K.
Gao, and B.
An, “A class of second-order consensus protocol in multi-agent systems with multiple input delays,” Journal of Systems Science and Complexity, vol.
32, no.
5, pp.
1280–1289, 2019.
[15] M.
Rosinberg, G.
Tarjus, and T.
Munakata, “Influence of time delay on information exchanges between coupled linear stochastic systems,” P.R.E, vol.
98, no.
3, p.
032130, 2018.
[16] V.
Klinshov, D.
Shchapin, S.
Yanchuk, M.
Wolfrum, O.
D’Huys, and V.
Nekorkin, “Embedding the dynamics of a single delay system into a feed-forward ring,” P.R.E, vol.
96, no.
4, p.
042217, 2017.
[17] C.
Yuan and F.
Wu, “Delay scheduled impulsive control for networked control systems,” IEEE Control Netw.
Syst., vol.
4, no.
3, pp.
587–597, 2017.
[18] Y.-P.
Tian and C.-L.
Liu, “Consensus of multi-agent systems with diverse input and communication delays,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
53, no.
9, pp.
2122–2128, 2008.
[19] L.
Ping, Q.
Kaiyu, and S.
Mengji, “Distributed robust h∞ rotating consensus control of multi-agent systems with mixed uncertainties and time-delay,” in Proceedings of the 32nd Chinese Control Conference.
IEEE, 2013, pp.
101–106.
[20] J.
G.
Restrepo and P.
S.
Skardal, “Competitive suppression of synchronization and nonmonotonic transitions in oscillator communities with distributed time delay,” P.R.R, vol.
1, no.
3, p.
033042, 2019.
[21] A.
Otto, G.
Radons, D.
Bachrathy, and G.
Orosz, “Synchronization in networks with heterogeneous coupling delays,” P.R.E, vol.
97, no.
1, p.
012311, 2018.
[22] P.
Lin and Y.
Jia, “Consensus of a class of second-order multi-agent systems with time-delay and jointly-connected topologies,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
55, no.
3, pp.
778–784, 2010.
[23] J.
Xu, H.
Zhang, and L.
Xie, “Input delay margin for consensusability of multi-agent systems,” Automatica, vol.
49, no.
6, pp.
1816–1820, 2013.
