[24] W.
Hou, M.
Fu, H.
Zhang, and Z.
Wu, “Consensus conditions for general second-order multi-agent systems with communication delay,” Automatica, vol.
75, pp.
293–298, 2017.
[25] L.
He, J.
Zhang, Y.
Hou, X.
Liang, and P.
Bai, “Time-varying formation control for second-order discrete-time multi- agent systems with switching topologies and nonuniform communication delays,” IEEE Access, vol.
7, pp.
65 379–65 389, 2019.
[26] X.
Li, K.
Gao, P.
Lin, and L.
Mo, “A further result on consensus problems of second-order multi-agent systems with directed graphs, a moving mode and multiple delays,” ISA transactions, vol.
71, pp.
21–24, 2017.
[27] Z.
Liu, A.
Saberi, and A.
A.
Stoorvogel, “Passivity based delayed state synchronization of discrete-time multi-agent systems in presence of unknown communication delays,” in 2018 Annual American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2018, pp.
5207–5212.
[28] X.-F.
Wang, X.-M.
Sun, S.-L.
Du, and W.
Wang, “Observer-based triggering mechanism for leader-following consensus of multi-agent systems with time-varying communication delay,” in 2017 IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications (CCTA).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
43–48.
[29] X.
Xu, L.
Liu, and G.
Feng, “Consensus of discrete-time linear multiagent systems with communication, input and output delays,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
63, no.
2, pp.
492–497, 2018.
[30] Q.
Jia, Z.
Han, and W.
K.
S.
Tang, “Synchronization of multi-agent systems with time-varying control and delayed communications,” IEEE Trans.
Circuits Syst.
I, Reg.
Papers, vol.
66, no.
11, pp.
4429–4438, 2019.
[31] H.
Liu, W.
Zhao, Z.
Zuo, and Y.
Zhong, “Robust control for quadrotors with multiple time-varying uncertainties and delays,” IEEE Trans.
Ind.
Electron., vol.
64, no.
2, pp.
1303–1312, 2017.
[32] K.
S.
Ko and D.
K.
Sung, “The effect of ev aggregators with timevarying delays on the stability of a load frequency control system,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol.
33, no.
1, pp.
669–680, 2018.
[33] H.
Lee and V.
I.
Utkin, “Chattering suppression methods in sliding mode control systems,” Annual reviews in control, vol.
31, no.
2, pp.
179–188, 2007.
[34] V.
Utkin and J.
Shi, “Integral sliding mode in systems operating under uncertainty conditions,” in IEEE Conf.
Decision and Control, vol.
4.
IEEE, 1996, pp.
4591–4596.
[35] K.
Gu, J.
Chen, and V.
L.
Kharitonov, Stability of time-delay systems.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2003.
[36] J.

G.
VanAntwerp and R.
D.
Braatz, “A tutorial on linear and bilinear matrix inequalities,” Journal of process control, vol.
10, no.
4, pp.
363– 385, 2000.
[37] M.
Wu, Y.
He, and J.-H.
She, Stability analysis and robust control of time-delay systems.
Springer, 2010, vol.
22.
