[181] Li Wang, Aaron D Ames, and Magnus Egerstedt. Safety barrier certificates for collisions-free multirobot systems. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 33(3):661–674, 2017.   
[182] Lorenzo Sabattini, Cristian Secchi, and Nikhil Chopra. Decentralized connectivity maintenance for networked lagrangian dynamical systems with collision avoidance. Asian Journal of Control, 17(1), 2015.   
[183] Daniel Claes and Karl Tuyls. Multi robot collision avoidance in a shared workspace. Autonomous Robots, pages 1–22, 2018.   
[184] Chengtao Cai, Chunsheng Yang, Qidan Zhu, and Yanhua Liang. Collision avoidance in multi-robot systems. International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation (ICMA), pages 2795–2800, 2007.   
[185] Shihua Li and Xiangyu Wang. Finite-time consensus and collision avoidance control algorithms for multiple auvs. Automatica, 49(11):3359– 3367, 2013.   
[186] Michael M Zavlanos, Magnus B Egerstedt, and George J Pappas. Graph-theoretic connectivity control of mobile robot networks. Proceedings of the IEEE, 99(9):1525–1540, 2011.   
[187] Lorenzo Sabattini, Cristian Secchi, Nikhil Chopra, and Andrea Gasparri. Distributed control of multirobot systems with global connectivity maintenance. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 29(5):1326–1332, 2013.   
[188] Meng Ji and Magnus Egerstedt. Distributed coordination control of multiagent systems while preserving connectedness. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 23(4):693–703, 2007.   
[189] Chao Sun, Guoqiang Hu, Lihua Xie, and Magnus Egerstedt. Robust finite-time connectivity preserving coordination of second-order multiagent systems. Automatica, 89:21–27, 2018.   
[190] Yiannis Kantaros and Michael M Zavlanos. Global planning for multirobot communication networks in complex environments. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 32(5):1045–1061, 2016.   
[191] Matthew Turpin, Nathan Michael, and Vijay Kumar. Capt: Concurrent assignment and planning of trajectories for multiple robots. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 33(1):98–112, 2014.   
[192] Michael M Zavlanos and George J Pappas. Distributed connectivity control of mobile networks. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 24(6):1416– 1428, 2008.
