[365] Meng Guo, Karl H Johansson, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Motion and action planning under ltl specifications using navigation functions and action description language. Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2013 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on, pages 240–245, 2013.   
[366] Patrizio Tomei. Robust adaptive control of robots with arbitrary transient performance and disturbance attenuation. IEEE transactions on automatic control, 44(3):654–658, 1999.   
[367] Jean-Jacques E Slotine and Weiping Li. On the adaptive control of robot manipulators. The international journal of robotics research, 6(3):49–59, 1987.   
[368] James J Kuffner and Steven M LaValle. Rrt-connect: An efficient approach to single-query path planning. Proceedings 2000 ICRA. Millennium Conference. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. Symposia Proceedings (Cat. No. 00CH37065), 2:995– 1001, 2000.   
[369] Sertac Karaman and Emilio Frazzoli. Incremental sampling-based algorithms for optimal motion planning. Robotics Science and Systems VI, 104(2), 2010.   
[370] John Schulman, Yan Duan, Jonathan Ho, Alex Lee, Ibrahim Awwal, Henry Bradlow, Jia Pan, Sachin Patil, Ken Goldberg, and Pieter Abbeel. Motion planning with sequential convex optimization and convex collision checking. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 33(9):1251–1270, 2014.   
[371] A Frank van der Stappen, Dan Halperin, and Mark H Overmars. The complexity of the free space for a robot moving amidst fat obstacles. Computational Geometry, 3(6):353–373, 1993.   
[372] Charalampos P Bechlioulis and George A Rovithakis. Robust partialstate feedback prescribed performance control of cascade systems with unknown nonlinearities. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 56(9):2224–2230, 2011.   
[373] Jin Gyu Lee and Stephan Trenn. Asymptotic tracking via funnel control. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2019.   
[374] Boris Mltyagin. The zero set of a real analytic function. arXiv:1512.07276v1, 2015.   
[375] E. D. Sontag. Mathematical control theory: deterministic finite dimensional systems. Springer Science & Business Media, 6, 2013.
