[61] A.-N. Ponce-Hinestroza, J.-A. Castro-Castro, H.-I. Guerrero-Reyes, V. Parra-Vega, and E. Olgu\`yn-D\`yaz. Cooperative redundant omnidirectional mobile manipulators: Model-free decentralized integral sliding modes and passive velocity fields. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 2375–2380, 2016.   
[62] W. Gueaieb, F. Karray, and S. Al-Sharhan. A robust hybrid intelligent position/force control scheme for cooperative manipulators. IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 12(2):109–125, 2007.   
[63] Z. Li, C. Yang, C. Y. Su, S. Deng, F. Sun, and W. Zhang. Decentralized fuzzy control of multiple cooperating robotic manipulators with impedance interaction. IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 23(4):1044–1056, 2015.   
[64] K. G. Tzierakis and F. N. Koumboulis. Independent force and position control for cooperating manipulators. Journal of the Franklin Institute, 340(6):435–460, 2003.   
[65] Alessandro Marino. Distributed adaptive control of networked cooperative mobile manipulators. IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 26(5):1646–1660, 2017.   
[66] M. Ciocarlie, F. Hicks, R. Holmberg, J. Hawke, M. Schlicht, J. Gee, S. Stanford, and R. Bahadur. The velo gripper: A versatile singleactuator design for enveloping, parallel and fingertip grasps. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 2014.   
[67] A. Petitti, A. Franchi, D. Di Paola, and A. Rizzo. Decentralized motion control for cooperative manipulation with a team of networked mobile manipulators. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 441–446, 2016.   
[68] F. Aghili. Self-tuning cooperative control of manipulators with position/orientation uncertainties in the closed-kinematic loop. 2011 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 4187–4193, 2011.   
[69] S. Erhart and S. Hirche. Model and analysis of the interaction dynamics in cooperative manipulation tasks. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 32(3):672–683, 2016.   
[70] Alessandro Marino and Francesco Pierri. A two stage approach for distributed cooperative manipulation of an unknown object without explicit communication and unknown number of robots. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 103:122–133, 2018.
