# Nonlinear Model Predictive Control

This Appendix provides preliminary background on Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC).

Nonlinear Model Predictive Control has become an attractive feedback control strategy in applications where, except for stabilization or trajectory tracking of a system, certain state and input constraints must be also satisfied [87, 88, 381]. In general, the NMPC is formulated as solving at each sampling time step an online Finite Horizon Optimal Control Problem (FHOCP) subject to system dynamics and state and input constraints. Based on measurements obtained at each sampling time step, the controller predicts the dynamic behavior of the system over a predictive horizon in the future and determines the input such that a predetermined open-loop performance objective is minimized. In order to incorporate feedback, the optimal open-loop input is implemented only until the next sampling time step. Using the new system state at the next sampling time step, the whole procedure (prediction and optimization) is repeated, moving the control and prediction horizon forward. Summarizing, a standard NMPC scheme works as follows

1. Obtain estimates of the states of the system.

2. Calculate a constraint-conforming optimal input minimizing the desired cost function over the prediction horizon using the system model and the current state estimate for prediction.

3. Implement the first part of the optimal input until the next sampling time step.

4. Go to step 1.

More technically, consider the stabilization problem for a class of systems described by the following nonlinear dynamical system:

$$\dot {x} = f (x, u), \tag {D.1}$$

with $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { m } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is locally Lipschitz continuous and satisfies $f ( 0 , 0 ) =$ 0. The system is subject to the following input and state constraints:

$$u \in \mathcal {U} \subset \mathbb {R} ^ {m}, x \in \mathcal {X} \subset \mathbb {R} ^ {n},$$

respectively, where is compact and is connected, and $( 0 , 0 ) \in \mathcal { X } \times \mathcal { U } .$ . Denote by $h \in \mathbb { R } _ { > 0 } , T _ { p } > h$ the sampling step and the finite prediction horizon, respectively. Consider a sequence of sampling times $\{ t _ { j } \} , j \in \mathbb { N }$ . Then, at every sampling time step $t _ { j }$ , the following FHOCP is solved:
