Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Stockholm, Sweden, pages 1455–1461, 2016.   
[288] A. Eskandarpour and V. J. Majd. Cooperative formation control of quadrotors with obstacle avoidance and self collisions based on a hierarchical mpc approach. Proceedings of the RSI/ISM International Conference on Robotics and Mechatronics (ICRoM), Tehran, Iran, pages 351–356, 2014.   
[289] Sina Sharif Mansouri, George Nikolakopoulos, and Thomas Gustafsson. Distributed model predictive control for unmanned aerial vehicles. 2015 Workshop on Research, Education and Development of Unmanned Aerial Systems (RED-UAS), pages 152–161, 2015.   
[290] Y. Zhou and J. S. Baras. Reachable set approach to collision avoidance for uavs. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference Decision and Control (CDC), Osaka, Japan, pages 5947–5952, 2015.   
[291] Javier Alonso-Mora, Tobias Naegeli, Roland Siegwart, and Paul Beardsley. Collision avoidance for aerial vehicles in multi-agent scenarios. Autonomous Robots, 39(1):101–121, 2015.   
[292] A. Pierson, A. Ataei, I. C. Paschalidis, and M. Schwager. Cooperative multi-quadrotor pursuit of an evader in an environment with no-fly zones. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Stockholm, Sweden, pages 320–326, 2016.   
[293] S. Karaman and E. Frazzoli. Vehicle routing problem with metric temporal logic specifications. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Cancun, Mexico, pages 3953–3958, 2008.   
[294] S. Karaman and E. Frazzoli. Complex mission optimization for multiple-uavs using linear temporal logic. Proceedings of the IEEE American Control Conference (ACC), Seattle, WA, USA, pages 2003– 2009, 2008.   
[295] J. Xiaoting and N. Yifeng. Robust strategy planning for uav with ltl specifications. Proceedings of the IEEE Chinese Control Conference (CCC), Yinchuan, China, pages 2890–2895, 2016.   
[296] C. Belta, V. Isler, and G. J. Pappas. Discrete abstractions for robot motion planning and control in polygonal environments. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 21(5):864–874, 2005.   
[297] C. Belta and L. C. Habets. Controlling a class of nonlinear systems on rectangles. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 51(11):1749– 1759, 2006.
