[158] S. Zhao and D. Zelazo. Bearing rigidity and almost global bearing-only formation stabilization. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 61(5):1255–1268, May 2016.   
[159] R. Tron, L. Carlone, F. Dellaert, and K. Daniilidis. Rigid components identification and rigidity control in bearing-only localization using the graph cycle basis. American Control Conference (ACC), pages 3911–3918, July 2015.   
[160] Tolga Eren. Formation shape control based on bearing rigidity. International Journal of Control, 85(9):1361–1379, 2012.   
[161] A. Bishop, I. Shames, and B. Anderson. Stabilization of rigid formations with direction-only constraints. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Orlando, FL, USA, pages 746–752, 2011.   
[162] D. Zelazo, A. Franchi, and P. R. Giordano. Rigidity theory in se(2) for unscaled relative position estimation using only bearing measurements. 2014 European Control Conference (ECC), pages 2703–2708, June 2014.   
[163] G. Michieletto, A. Cenedese, and A. Franchi. Bearing rigidity theory in se(3). 2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 5950–5955, Dec 2016.   
[164] Ian D Walker, Robert A Freeman, and Steven I Marcus. Analysis of motion and internal loading of objects grasped by multiple cooperating manipulators. The International journal of robotics research, 10(4):396– 409, 1991.   
[165] D. Williams and O. Khatib. The virtual linkage: a model for internal forces in multi-grasp manipulation. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 1:1025–1030, 1993.   
[166] J. H. Chung, B.-Y. Yi W. K., and Kim. Analysis of internal loading at multiple robotic systems. Journal of mechanical science and technology, 19(8):1554–1567, 2005.   
[167] C. Bechlioulis and K. Kyriakopoulos. Robust model-free formation control with prescribed performance and connectivity maintenance for nonlinear multi-agent systems. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Los Angeles, CA, USA, pages 4509–4514, 2014.
