[40] T. Pan, C. K. Verginis, A. M. Wells, D. V. Dimarogonas, and L. E. Kavraki. Augmenting control policies with motion planning for robust and safe multi-robot navigation. submitted to the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2020.   
[41] N. Lissandrini, C. K. Verginis, P. Roque, A. Cenedese, and D. V. Dimarogonas. Decentralized nonlinear mpc for robust cooperative manipulation by heterogeneous aerial-ground robots. submitted to the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2020.   
[42] S. A. Schneider and R. H. Cannon. Object impedance control for cooperative manipulation: Theory and experimental results. IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation, 8(3):383–394, 1992.   
[43] T. G. Sugar and V. Kumar. Control of cooperating mobile manipulators. IEEE Transactions on robotics and automation, 18(1):94–103, 2002.   
[44] O. Khatib, K. Yokoi, K. Chang, D. Ruspini, R. Holmberg, and A. Casal. Decentralized cooperation between multiple manipulators. IEEE International Workshop onRobot and Human Communication, pages 183–188, 1996.   
[45] Y.-H. Liu, S. Arimoto, and T. Ogasawara. Decentralized cooperation control: non-communication object handling. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 3:2414–2419, 1996.   
[46] Y.-H. Liu and S. Arimoto. Decentralized adaptive and nonadaptive position/force controllers for redundant manipulators in cooperations. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 17(3):232–247, 1998.   
[47] Mohamed Zribi and Shuheen Ahmad. Adaptive control for multiple cooperative robot arms. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 1392–1398, 1992.   
[48] L. Gudi˜no-Lau, M. Arteaga, L. Munoz, and V. Parra-Vega. On the control of cooperative robots without velocity measurements. IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 12(4):600–608, 2004.   
[49] J. T. Wen and K. Kreutz-Delgado. Motion and force control of multiple robotic manipulators. Automatica, 28(4):729–743, 1992.   
[50] T. Yoshikawa and X.-Z. Zheng. Coordinated dynamic hybrid position/force control for multiple robot manipulators handling one
