[310] Paul Gastin and Denis Oddoux. Fast ltl to b¨uchi automata translation. International Conference on Computer Aided Verification, pages 53–65, 2001, http://www.lsv.ens-cachan.fr/ gastin/ltl2ba/.   
[311] B. Siciliano and O. Khatib. Springer handbook of robotics. Springer Science & Business Media, 2008.   
[312] Y.-K. Choi, J.-W. Chang, W. Wang, M.-S. Kim, and G. Elber. Continuous collision detection for ellipsoids. Transactions on visualization and Computer Graphics, 15(2):311–325, 2009.   
[313] E. Rimon and D. Koditschek. Exact robot navigation using artificial potential functions. IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation (TRA), 8(5):501–518, 1992.   
[314] S. G. Loizou and K. J. Kyriakopoulos. A feedback-based multiagent navigation framework. International Journal of Systems Science, 37(6):377–384, 2006.   
[315] S. G. Loizou. The multi-agent navigation transformation: Tuning-free multi-robot navigation. Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, 2014.   
[316] D. Z. Chen. Sphere packing problem. Encyclopedia of Algorithms, pages 1–99, 2008.   
[317] M. R. Cutkosky. Robotic grasping and fine manipulation, volume 6. Springer Science & Business Media, 2012.   
[318] M. F. Reis, A. C. Leite, and F. Lizarralde. Modeling and control of a multifingered robot hand for object grasping and manipulation tasks. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Osaka, Japan, pages 159–164, 2015.   
[319] H. K. Khalil. Nonlinear Systems. Prentice Hall, 2002.   
[320] Lydia E Kavraki, Petr Svestka, J-C Latombe, and Mark H Overmars. Probabilistic roadmaps for path planning in high-dimensional configuration spaces. IEEE transactions on Robotics and Automation, 12(4):566–580, 1996.   
[321] David Hsu, J-C Latombe, and Rajeev Motwani. Path planning in expansive configuration spaces. Proceedings of International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 3:2719–2726, 1997.   
[322] Steven M LaValle. Rapidly-exploring random trees: A new tool for path planning. 1998.
