[31] Christos K Verginis, Constantinos Vrohidis, Charalampos P Bechlioulis, Kostas J Kyriakopoulos, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Reconfigurable motion planning and control in obstacle cluttered environments under timed temporal tasks. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 951–957, 2019.   
[32] C. K. Verginis, D. V. Dimarogonas, and L. E. Kavraki. Sampling-based motion planning for uncertain high-dimensional systems via adaptive control. To appear in the Workshop on the Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics (WAFR), Oulu, Finland, 2020.   
[33] Christos K Verginis and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Asymptotic stability of uncertain lagrangian systems with prescribed transient response. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 7037–7042, 2019.   
[34] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Asymptotic tracking of secondorder nonsmooth feedback stabilizable unknown systems with prescribed transient response. under review, 2019.   
[35] Alexandros Nikou, Christos K Verginis, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Robust distance-based formation control of multiple rigid bodies with orientation alignment. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 50(1):15458–15463, 2017.   
[36] Christos K Verginis, Alexandras Nikou, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Position and orientation based formation control of multiple rigid bodies with collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 411–416, 2017.   
[37] Lars Lindemann, Christos K Verginis, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Prescribed performance control for signal temporal logic specifications. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 2997–3002, 2017.   
[38] A. Nikou, S. Heshmati-alamdari, C. K. Verginis, and D. V. Dimarogonas. Decentralized abstractions and timed constrained planning of a general class of coupled multi-agent systems. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Melbourne, Australia, pages 990–995, 2017.   
[39] Jieqiang Wei, Christos Verginis, Junfeng Wu, Dimos V Dimarogonas, Henrik Sandberg, and Karl H Johansson. Asymptotic and finite-time almost global attitude tracking: representations free approach. 2018 European Control Conference (ECC), pages 3126–3131, 2018.
