[14] S. M. Richards, N. Azizan, J.-J. E. Slotine, and M. Pavone. Adaptivecontrol-oriented meta-learning for nonlinear systems. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2021.   
[15] S. M. Richards, N. Azizan, J.-J. E. Slotine, and M. Pavone. Controloriented meta-learning. Int. Journal of Robotics Research, 2023. In press.   
[16] S. M. Richards, F. Berkenkamp, and A. Krause. The Lyapunov neural network: Adaptive stability certification for safe learning of dynamical systems. In Conf. on Robot Learning, 2018.   
[17] S. Sastry. Nonlinear systems: analysis, stability, and control, volume 10. Springer Science & Business Media, 2013.   
[18] V. Sindhwani, S. Tu, and M. Khansari. Learning contracting vector fields for stable imitation learning. Available at https://arxiv. org/abs/1804.04878, 2018.   
[19] S. Singh, S. M. Richards, V. Sindhwani, J.-J. E. Slotine, and M. Pavone. Learning stabilizable nonlinear dynamics with contraction-based regularization. Int. Journal of Robotics Research, 2020.   
[20] J.-J. E. Slotine and W. Li. Applied Nonlinear Control. Prentice Hall, 1991.   
[21] D. Sun, S. Jha, and C. Fan. Learning certified control using contraction metric. In Conf. on Robot Learning, 2020.   
[22] S. Sun, A. Romero, P. Foehn, E. Kaufmann, and D. Scaramuzza. A comparative study of nonlinear MPC and differential-flatness-based control for quadrotor agile flight. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 38(6):3357–3373, 2022.   
[23] R. Tedrake, I. R. Manchester, M. Tobenkin, and J. W. Roberts. LQRtrees: Feedback motion planning via sums-of-squares verification. Int. Journal of Robotics Research, 29(8):1038–1052, 2010.   
[24] Y. Wang. A new concept using lstm neural networks for dynamic system identification. In 2017 American control conference (ACC), pages 5324–5329. IEEE, 2017.   
[25] R. Zhou, T. Quartz, H. De Sterck, and J. Liu. Neural lyapunov control of unknown nonlinear systems with stability guarantees. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022.
