# 7.2 Future Research Directions

Regarding the cooperative manipulation schemes of Chapter 2, a strong assumption is that the agents operate away from kinematic singularities (except for the NMPC frameworks). Future directions can aim at addressing this issue and guarantee singularity avoidance. Moreover, grasp reconfiguration that allows more modular schemes is a promising direction, as well as fault-tolerant extensions of the current schemes. Finally, real-time experiments with robotic agents with soft fingertip-type end-effectors should be attempted.

Regarding Chapter 3, future efforts can aim at extending the developed formation control scheme to more general multi-agent graph structures as well as taking into account collisions among all the agents. Moreover, one can notice that the control law for provably achieving zero internal forces in the rigid cooperative manipulation scheme, depending on the multi-agent rigidity matrix, is centralized. Therefore, one might aim at extending the proposed algorithm to a decentralized scheme as well as considering compliant grasping contacts. Real-time experiments should be also conducted to showcase the validity of the proposed conditions.

Regarding the multi-agent coordination of Chapter 4, future works can address less conservative solutions for the multi-agent collision-free navigation. This can be also attempted by using the proposed leader-follower scheme and appropriate prioritization. Sampled inter-agent communication should be also used to resemble more realistic scenarios. Regarding the proposed ellipsoidal collision avoidance problem, one drawback that is required to be tackled in future works is the fact that the scheme interferes with the main assigned tasks, potentially causing them to fail (local minima scenarios).

Regarding Chapter 5, future directions are needed towards the generalization of the proposed multi-agent schemes to incorporate timed temporal specifications. Regarding the multi-agent-object hybrid scheme that is based on region-of-interest discretization, a decentralized extension must be considered. Moreover, failure of transition executions can be taken into account via plan reconfiguration. Finally, future works should also focus on real-time experiments to further validate the proposed frameworks.

Finally, regarding Chapter 6, future works are required to focus mainly at extending the proposed frameworks to multi-agent schemes, as well as incorporation of input saturation constraints.

As a final remark, another interesting topic of research is the consideration of delays in the multi-agent communication, as well as the sampled feedback and control realization, which have been neglected in this thesis.
