[235] Jie Mei, Wei Ren, and Guangfu Ma. Distributed coordinated tracking with a dynamic leader for multiple euler-lagrange systems. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 56(6):1415–1421, 2011.   
[236] Tove Gustavi, Dimos V Dimarogonas, Magnus Egerstedt, and Xiaoming Hu. Sufficient conditions for connectivity maintenance and rendezvous in leader–follower networks. Automatica, 46(1):133–139, 2010.   
[237] Christos K Verginis, Charalampos P Bechlioulis, Dimos V Dimarogonas, and Kostas J Kyriakopoulos. Decentralized 2-d control of vehicular platoons under limited visual feedback. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 3566–3571, 2015.   
[238] Christos K Verginis, Charalampos P Bechlioulis, Dimos V Dimarogonas, and Kostas J Kyriakopoulos. Robust distributed control protocols for large vehicular platoons with prescribed transient and steady-state performance. IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 26(1):299–304, 2018.   
[239] Sadra Sadraddini, S Sivaranjani, Vijay Gupta, and Calin Belta. Provably safe cruise control of vehicular platoons. IEEE Control Systems Letters, 1(2):262–267, 2017.   
[240] Wei Ren, Randal W Beard, and Ella M Atkins. A survey of consensus problems in multi-agent coordination. American Control Conference, pages 1859–1864, 2005.   
[241] Kwang-Kyo Oh, Myoung-Chul Park, and Hyo-Sung Ahn. A survey of multi-agent formation control. Automatica, 53:424–440, 2015.   
[242] Magnus Egerstedt and Xiaoming Hu. Formation constrained multiagent control. IEEE transactions on robotics and automation, 17(6):947–951, 2001.   
[243] Lorenzo Sabattini, Cristian Secchi, and Cesare Fantuzzi. Arbitrarily shaped formations of mobile robots: artificial potential fields and coordinate transformation. Autonomous Robots, 30(4):385, 2011.   
[244] Silvia Mastellone, Duˇsan M Stipanovi´c, Christopher R Graunke, Koji A Intlekofer, and Mark W Spong. Formation control and collision avoidance for multi-agent non-holonomic systems: Theory and experiments. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 27(1):107–126, 2008.
