[257] C. Belta, A. Bicchi, M. Egerstedt, E. Frazzoli, E. Klavins, and G. J. Pappas. Symbolic planning and control of robot motion. IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, 14(1):61–70, 2007.   
[258] A. Bhatia, L. E. Kavraki, and M. Y. Vardi. Sampling-based motion planning with temporal goals. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Anchorage, AK, USA, pages 2689– 2696, 2010.   
[259] M. Kloetzer and C. Belta. Automatic Deployment of Distributed Teams of Robots From Temporal Motion Specifications. IEEE Transactions on Robotics (TRO), 26(1):48–61, 2010.   
[260] C. Baier, J.P. Katoen, and K. G. Larsen. Principles of model checking. MIT Press, 2008.   
[261] M. M. Quottrup, T. Bak, and R. I. Zamanabadi. Multi-robot planning : a timed automata approach. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), New Orleans, LA, USA, 5:4417–4422, 2004.   
[262] S. G. Loizou and K. J. Kyriakopoulos. Automated planning of motion tasks for multi-robot systems. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), European Control Conference (ECC), Seville, Spain, pages 78–83, 2005.   
[263] I. Filippidis, D. V. Dimarogonas, and K. J. Kyriakopoulos. Decentralized Multi-Agent Control from Local LTL Specifications. 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Maui, Hawaii, USA, pages 6235–6240, 2012.   
[264] M. Guo and D. V. Dimarogonas. Multi-Agent Plan Reconfiguration Under Local LTL Specifications. The International Journal of Robotics Research (IJRR), 34(2):218–235, 2015.   
[265] V. Nenchev and C. Belta. Receding horizon robot control in partially unknown environments with temporal logic constraints. European Control Conference (ECC), Aalborg, Denmark, pages 2614–2619, 2016.   
[266] S. Feyzabadi and S. Carpin. Multi-objective planning with multiple high level task specifications. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Stockholm, Sweden, pages 5483–5490, 2016.   
[267] M. Guo, J. Tumova, and D. V. Dimarogonas. Hybrid control of multi-agent systems under local temporal tasks and relative-distance
