[21] Christos K. Verginis, Daniel Zelazo, and Dimos V. Dimarogonas. Cooperative manipulation via internal force regulation: A rigidity theory perspective. To appear in the IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, 2022.   
[22] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Adaptive robot navigation with collision avoidance subject to 2nd-order uncertain dynamics. Under Review, 2019.   
[23] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Adaptive leader-follower coordination of lagrangian multi-agentsystems under transient constraints. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 3833–3838, 2020.   
[24] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Closed-form barrier functions for multi-agent ellipsoidal systems with uncertain lagrangian dynamics. IEEE Control Systems Letters (LCSS), pages 727–732, 2019.   
[25] C. K. Verginis, Z. Xu, and D. V. Dimarogonas. Decentralized motion planning with collision avoidance for a team of uavs under high level goals. Proceedings of the International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 781–787, 2017.   
[26] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Robust decentralized abstractions for multiple mobile manipulators. Proceedings of the Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Melbourne, Australia, pages 2222– 2227, 2017.   
[27] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Distributed cooperative manipulation under timed temporal specifications. American Control Conference (ACC), Seattle, WA, USA, pages 1358–1363, 2017.   
[28] Christos K Verginis and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Timed abstractions for distributed cooperative manipulation. Autonomous Robots, 42(4):781– 799, 2018.   
[29] Christos K Verginis and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Multi-agent motion planning and object transportation under high level goals. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 50(1):15816–15821, 2017.   
[30] C. K. Verginis and D. V. Dimarogonas. Motion and cooperative transportation planning for multi-agent systems under temporal logic formulas. BOSCH AI Conference, Arxiv Link: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.01579.pdf, 2018.
