# 7.1 Summary

In Chapter 2, we proposed a set of control algorithms for the cooperative manipulation of rigid objects. We tackled first the case of rigid grasping contacts, and developed closed-form adaptive control algorithms, compensating for uncertainty in the dynamic parameters of the object and the agents, and Nonlinear Model Predictive Control schemes, taking into account constraints such as obstacle avoidance and input saturation. A Prescribed Performance Control methodology has been also developed to achieve prescribed transient and steady-state response for the object. Secondly, we considered the case of rolling contacts, for which we developed novel centralized and decentralized control algorithms that guarantee agents-object contact maintenance, along with object reference tracking.

In Chapter 3, we tackled the problem of multi-agent formation and its relation to rigid cooperative manipulation. Firstly, we developed a robust model-free decentralized control scheme for the formation control of a tree-graph multi-agent system with prescribed transient and steady-state response, subject to collision and connectivity constraints. Secondly, we associated rigid cooperative manipulation schemes to multi-agent rigidity theory. We related the grasp matrix of the former to the rigidity matrix of the latter and we used that to derive novel conditions for the internal force-free cooperative manipulation.

In Chapter 4 we considered the problems of multi-agent navigation and leader-follower coordination subject to collision and/or connectivity constraints as well as uncertain dynamics. We first developed an adaptive control protocol for the problem of single-agent navigation in an obstaclecluttered environment with uncertain dynamics under almost all initial conditions. This was extended to a prioritization-based decentralized scheme for multi-agent systems. Secondly, we proposed a novel adaptive control scheme for the leader-follower coordination, that is, navigation of a leader agent to a predefined pose, while guaranteeing collision avoidance and connectivity maintenance. Finally, we designed an adaptive control protocol for the collision avoidance among ellipsoidal agents using a novel distance metric for 3D ellipsoids.
