[355] Hashim A Hashim, Sami El-Ferik, and Frank L Lewis. Adaptive synchronisation of unknown nonlinear networked systems with prescribed performance. International Journal of Systems Science, 48(4):885–898, 2017.   
[356] Charalampos P Bechlioulis and George A Rovithakis. Decentralized robust synchronization of unknown high order nonlinear multi-agent systems with prescribed transient and steady state performance. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 62(1):123–134, 2017.   
[357] Luca Macellari, Yiannis Karayiannidis, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Multi-agent second order average consensus with prescribed transient behavior. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 62(10):5282–5288, 2017.   
[358] Achim Ilchmann and Eugene P Ryan. Asymptotic tracking with prescribed transient behaviour for linear systems. International Journal of Control, 79(8):910–917, 2006.   
[359] Achim Ilchmann, Eugene P Ryan, and Philip Townsend. Tracking with prescribed transient behavior for nonlinear systems of known relative degree. SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 46(1):210–230, 2007.   
[360] Daniel Liberzon and Stephan Trenn. The bang-bang funnel controller for uncertain nonlinear systems with arbitrary relative degree. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 58(12):3126–3141, 2013.   
[361] Martijn Dresscher and Bayu Jayawardhana. Prescribing transient and asymptotic behaviour of lti systems with stochastic initial conditions. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 50(1):1822–1827, 2017.   
[362] Seong Ik Han. Prescribed consensus and formation error constrained finite-time sliding mode control for multi-agent mobile robot systems. IET Control Theory & Applications, 12(2):282–290, 2017.   
[363] C. Vrohidis, P. Vlantis, C. P. Bechlioulis, and K. J. Kyriakopoulos. Prescribed time scale robot navigation. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(2):1191–1198, April 2018.   
[364] Thomas Brihaye, Gilles Geeraerts, Hsi-Ming Ho, and Benjamin Monmege. MightyL: A Compositional Translation from MITL to Timed Automata. 29th International Conference on Computer Aided Verification (CAV’17), 10426:421–440, July 2017.
