[215] Alexandros Filotheou, Alexandros Nikou, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Decentralized control of uncertain multi-agent systems with connectivity maintenance and collision avoidance. European Control Conference, 2018.   
[216] Jos´e M Mendes Filho, Eric Lucet, and David Filliat. Real-time distributed receding horizon motion planning and control for mobile multi-robot dynamic systems. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 657–663, 2017.   
[217] Jur Van Den Berg, Jamie Snape, Stephen J Guy, and Dinesh Manocha. Reciprocal collision avoidance with acceleration-velocity obstacles. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2011.   
[218] Steven Roelofsen, Denis Gillet, and Alcherio Martinoli. Collision avoidance with limited field of view sensing: A velocity obstacle approach. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 1922–1927, 2017.   
[219] Erick J Rodr´ıguez-Seda, Duˇsan M Stipanovi´c, and Mark W Spong. Collision avoidance control with sensing uncertainties. Proceedings of the 2011 American Control Conference, pages 3363–3368, 2011.   
[220] Sotiris Stavridis, Dimitrios Papageorgiou, and Zoe Doulgeri. Dynamical system based robotic motion generation with obstacle avoidance. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2(2):712–718, 2017.   
[221] Victoria Grushkovskaya and Alexander Zuyev. Obstacle avoidance problem for second degree nonholonomic systems. IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 1500–1505, 2018.   
[222] Jan Maximilian Montenbruck, Mathias B¨urger, and Frank Allg¨ower. Navigation and obstacle avoidance via backstepping for mechanical systems with drift in the closed loop. 2015 American Control Conference (ACC), pages 625–630, 2015.   
[223] Omur Arslan and Daniel E Koditschek. Exact robot navigation using power diagrams. 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 1–8, 2016.   
[224] Omur Arslan, Dan P Guralnik, and Daniel E Koditschek. Coordinated robot navigation via hierarchical clustering. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 32(2):352–371, 2016.
