Since these bounds are taken into account in the design of the trajectory $q _ { \mathrm { d } }$ by Algorithm 2, the system will remain collision free.
Note also that $t _ { f }$ and hence the velocity of the formed trajectory $q _ { \mathrm { d } }$ is chosen by the user.
Therefore, the robot can execute the respective path in a predefined time interval.

The probabilistic completeness of the algorithm is stated in the next theorem.

Theorem 6.2. Under Assumption 6.2 and for sufficiently high gains $\underline { { k } } _ { v } , \underline { { k } } _ { t r } .$ $\underline { { k } } _ { r }$ , as introduced in eq. (6.6), (6.7) and (6.8), Algorithm 2 is probabilistically complete.

Proof. Assumption 6.2 and Remark 6.3 imply that there exist positive $\delta _ { t r }$ and $\delta _ { r }$ and (at least) one twice differentiable path $\pmb q _ { \mathrm { p } } : [ 0 , \sigma ]  \bar { \mathcal { A } } _ { \mathrm { f r e e } } ( ( \delta _ { t r } , \delta _ { r } ) )$ connecting $q _ { 0 }$ and $Q _ { g }$ . As stated in Remark 6.2, by increasing the values of the control gains $\underline { { k } } _ { v } , \underline { { k } } _ { t r } , \underline { { k } } _ { r }$ , one can decrease the constants $\bar { e } _ { t r } , \bar { \eta } _ { t r }$ from eq. (6.9) such that $\bar { e } _ { t r } < \delta _ { t r } , \bar { \eta } _ { r } < \delta _ { r }$ . Hence, $Q _ { g }$ satisfies $Q _ { g } \subset \bar { \mathcal { A } } _ { \mathrm { f r e e } } ( ( \delta _ { t r } , \delta _ { r } ) ) \subset$ $\bar { \lambda } _ { \mathrm { f r e e } } \big ( \big ( \bar { e } _ { t r } , \bar { \eta } _ { r } \big ) \big )$ and the feasible path satisfies $\mathbf { q } _ { \mathrm { p } } ( \nu ) ~ \in ~ \bar { \mathcal { A } } _ { \mathrm { f r e e } } ( ( \delta _ { t r } , \delta _ { r } ) ) ~ \subset$ $\bar { \mathcal { A } } _ { \mathrm { f r e e } } \big ( \big ( \bar { e } _ { t r } , \bar { \eta } _ { r } \big ) \big ) , \forall \nu \in [ 0 , \sigma ]$ , which guarantees the feasibility of Algorithm 2.
