[225] Soulaimane Berkane, Andrea Bisoffi, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. A hybrid controller for obstacle avoidance in an n-dimensional euclidean space. 2019 European Control Conference (ECC), 2019.   
[226] Muhannad Mujahed and Barbel Mertsching. The admissible gap (ag) method for reactive collision avoidance. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 1916–1921, 2017.   
[227] Lukas Huber, Aude Billard, and Jean-Jacques Slotine. Avoidance of convex and concave obstacles with convergence ensured through contraction. 2019 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2019.   
[228] Daniel E Koditschek. The control of natural motion in mechanical systems. Journal of dynamic systems, measurement, and control, 113(4):547–551, 1991.   
[229] Omur Arslan and Daniel E Koditschek. Smooth extensions of feedback motion planners via reference governors. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 4414–4421, 2017.   
[230] Jiangping Hu and Gang Feng. Distributed tracking control of leader– follower multi-agent systems under noisy measurement. Automatica, 46(8):1382–1387, 2010.   
[231] Xianfu Zhang, Lu Liu, and Gang Feng. Leader–follower consensus of time-varying nonlinear multi-agent systems. Automatica, 52:8–14, 2015.   
[232] Zhongkui Li, Xiangdong Liu, Wei Ren, and Lihua Xie. Distributed tracking control for linear multiagent systems with a leader of bounded unknown input. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 58(2), 2013.   
[233] Wei Liu and Jie Huang. Adaptive leader-following consensus for a class of higher-order nonlinear multi-agent systems with directed switching networks. Automatica, 79:84–92, 2017.   
[234] Meng Guo, Jana Tumova, and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Communicationfree multi-agent control under local temporal tasks and relativedistance constraints. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 61(12):3948–3962, 2016.
