# E.1 Graph Theory

An undirected graph $\mathcal { G }$ is a pair $( \mathcal { N } , \mathcal { E } )$ , where $\mathcal { N } : = \{ 1 , \dots , N \}$ is a finite set of $N \in \mathbb N$ nodes, representing a team of agents, and $\mathcal { E } \subseteq \{ ( i , j ) \in \mathcal { N } ^ { 2 } : i < j \}$ , with $K = | \mathcal { E } |$ , is the set of edges that model the communication capabilities between neighboring agents. For each agent, its neighboring set ${ \mathcal { N } } _ { i }$ is defined as $\mathcal { N } _ { i } : = \{ j \in \mathcal { N } \mathrm { ~ s . t . ~ } ( i , j ) \} \in \mathcal { E } \}$ . A directed graph is formed by the edges being $\mathcal { E } \subseteq \{ ( i , j ) \in \mathcal { N } ^ { 2 } : i \neq j \}$ , i.e., $( i , j ) \in \mathcal { E }$ does not necessarily imply $( j , i ) \in \mathcal { E }$ . The complete graph of N nodes, $N > 1$ , is denoted by $\kappa _ { N }$ .

If there is an edge $( i , j ) \in \mathcal { E }$ , then $i , j$ are called adjacent. A path of length r from vertex i to vertex j is a sequence of $r + 1$ distinct vertices, starting with i and ending with $j ,$ such that consecutive vertices are adjacent. For $i = j$ , the path is called a cycle. If there is a path between any two vertices of the graph $\mathcal { G }$ , then $\mathcal { G }$ is called connected. A connected graph is called a tree if it contains no cycles.

Consider an arbitrary orientation of G, which assigns to each edge $( i , j ) \in$ precisely one of the ordered pairs $( i , j )$ or $( j , i )$ . When selecting the pair $( i , j )$ , we say that i is the tail and j is the head of the edge $( i , j )$ . By considering a numbering $k \in \mathcal { K } : = \{ 1 , . . . , K \}$ of the graph’s edge set, we define the incidence matrix $D ( \mathcal { G } ) : = \dot { [ } d _ { i k } ] \in \dot { \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times M } }$ as

$$
d _ {i k} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1, & \text {if i is the head of edge k}, \\ - 1, & \text {if i is the tail of edge k}, \\ 0, & \text {otherwise.} \end{array} \right.
$$

Moreover, the incidence matrix satisfies the following important property.

Property E.1. Consider the incidence matrix $D ( { \mathcal { G } } )$ of an arbitrary graph $\mathcal { G }$ as $D ( \mathcal { G } ) = [ d _ { 1 } , \dots , d _ { N } ] ^ { \intercal } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times M }$ , where $d _ { i } ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { M }$ are the rows of D. Then it holds that $\textstyle \sum _ { i \in \{ 1 , \dots , N \} } d _ { i } = 0$ , i.e., the rows of the incidence matrix sum up to zero.

Lemma E.1. [128, Section III] Assume that the graph $\mathcal { G }$ is a connected tree. Then, $D ( \mathcal { G } ) ^ { \top } \Delta D ( \mathcal { G } )$ is positive definite for any positive definite matrix ∆ RN×N . $\Delta \in \mathbb { R } ^ { N \times N }$
