[82] Dario Sanalitro, Heitor J Savino, Marco Tognon, Juan Cort´es, and Antonio Franchi. Full-pose manipulation control of a cable-suspended load with multiple uavs under uncertainties. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(2):2185–2191, 2020.   
[83] Chiara Gabellieri, Marco Tognon, Dario Sanalitro, Lucia Pallottino, and Antonio Franchi. A study on force-based collaboration in swarms. Swarm Intelligence, pages 1–26, 2019.   
[84] D. Koditschek and E. Rimon. Robot navigation functions on manifolds with boundary. Advances in Applied Mathematics, 11(4):412–442, 1990.   
[85] B. Siciliano L. Sciavicco, L. Villani, and G. Oriolo. Robotics: modelling, planning and control. Springer Science & Business Media, 2010.   
[86] K. Oliveira and M. Morari. Contractive model predictive control for constrained nonlinear systems. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 45(6):1053–1071, 2000.   
[87] R. Findeisen, L. Imsland, F. Allg¨ower, and B. A. Foss. State and output feedback nonlinear model predictive control: An overview. European Journal of Control, 9(2-3):190–206, 2003.   
[88] H. Chen and F. Allg¨ower. A quasi-infinite horizon nonlinear model predictive control scheme with guaranteed stability. Automatica, 34(10):1205–1217, 1998.   
[89] R. Findeisen, L. Imsland, F. Allg¨ower, and B. Foss. Towards a sampleddata theory for nonlinear model predictive control. New Trends in Nonlinear Dynamics and Control and their Applications, pages 295– 311, 2003.   
[90] F. Fontes. A general framework to design stabilizing nonlinear model predictive controllers. Systems and Control Letters, 42(2):127–143, 2001.   
[91] L. Gr¨une and J. Pannek. Nonlinear Model Predictive Control. Springer London, 2011.   
[92] E. Camacho and C. Bordons. Nonlinear model predictive control: An introductory review. Assessment and Future Directions of Nonlinear Model Predictive Control, pages 1–16, 2007.   
[93] B. Kouvaritakis and M. Cannon. Nonlinear predictive control: Theory and practice. Iet, (61), 2001.
