constraints. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Osaka, Japan, pages 1701–1706, 2015.   
[268] G. Fainekos, A. Girard, K.G. Hadas, and G. J. Pappas. Temporal Logic Motion Planning for Dynamic Robots. Automatica, 45(2):343–352, 2009.   
[269] M. Kloetzer and C. Belta. Ltl planning for groups of robots. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Networking, Sensing and Control (ICNSC), Ft. Lauderdale, FL, USA, pages 578–583, 2006.   
[270] A. Ulusoy, S. L. Smith, X. C. Ding, C. Belta, and D. Rus. Optimality and robustness in multi-robot path planning with temporal logic constraints. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 32(8):889– 911, 2013.   
[271] Z. Zhang and R. V. Cowlagi. Motion-planning with global temporal logic specifications for multiple nonholonomic robotic vehicles. Proceedings of the IEEE American Control Conference (ACC), Boston, MA, USA, pages 7098–7103, 2016.   
[272] D. Aksaray, C.-I. Vasile, and C. Belta. Dynamic routing of energyaware vehicles with temporal logic constraints. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Stockholm, Sweden, pages 3141–3146, 2016.   
[273] A. Bhatia, M. R. Maly, L. E. Kavraki, and M. Y. Vardi. Motion planning with complex goals. IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, 18(3):55–64, 2011.   
[274] R. V. Cowlagi and Z. Zhang. Motion-planning with linear temporal logic specifications for a nonholonomic vehicle kinematic model. Proceedings of the IEEE American Control Conference (ACC), Boston, MA, USA, pages 6411–6416, 2016.   
[275] Y. Diaz-Mercado, A. Jones, C. Belta, and M. Egerstedt. Correct-byconstruction control synthesis for multi-robot mixing. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Osaka, Japan, pages 221–226, 2015.   
[276] S. Liu, C. Wang, G. Liang, H. Chen, and X. Wu. Formation control strategy for a group of quadrotors. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Information and Automation, pages 2504–2511, 2015.
