[334] Jerome Le Ny and George J Pappas. Sequential composition of robust controller specifications. 2012 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 5190–5195, 2012.   
[335] Brandon D Luders, Sertac Karaman, Emilio Frazzoli, and Jonathan P How. Bounds on tracking error using closed-loop rapidly-exploring random trees. Proceedings of the 2010 American Control Conference, pages 5406–5412, 2010.   
[336] Jay A Farrell and Marios M Polycarpou. Adaptive approximation based control: unifying neural, fuzzy and traditional adaptive approximation approaches, volume 48. John Wiley & Sons, 2006.   
[337] Zhongle Wu, Jian Chen, Chengshuai Wu, and Kaixiang Zhang. Adaptive tracking for mimo nonlinear systems with unknown fast timevarying parameters. International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 28(13):4058–4074, 2018.   
[338] Jian Chen, Aman Behal, and Darren M Dawson. Robust feedback control for a class of uncertain mimo nonlinear systems. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 53(2):591–596, 2008.   
[339] Bin Xian, Darren M Dawson, Marcio S de Queiroz, and Jian Chen. A continuous asymptotic tracking control strategy for uncertain nonlinear systems. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 49(7):1206–1211, 2004.   
[340] Lei Wang, Romeo Ortega, Hongye Su, and Zhitao Liu. Stabilization of nonlinear systems nonlinearly depending on fast time-varying parameters: an immersion and invariance approach. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 60(2):559–564, 2015.   
[341] H˚avard Fjær Grip, Tor A Johansen, Lars Imsland, and Glenn-Ole Kaasa. Parameter estimation and compensation in systems with nonlinearly parameterized perturbations. Automatica, 46(1):19–28, 2010.   
[342] Alessandro Astolfi and Romeo Ortega. Immersion and invariance: a new tool for stabilization and adaptive control of nonlinear systems. IEEE Transactions on Automatic control, 48(4):590–606, 2003.   
[343] K Zhang, Z Wang, and A Behal. A continuous asymptotic tracking control strategy for a class of uncertain mimo nonlinear systems. Decision and Control (CDC), 2015 IEEE 54th Annual Conference on, pages 6209–6214, 2015.
