[136] M. Park, K. Oh, and H. Ahn. Modified gradient control for acyclic minimally persistent formations to escape from collinear position. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Maui, HI, USA, pages 1423–1427, 2012.   
[137] A. Belabbas, S. Mou, S. Morse, and B. Anderson. Robustness Issues with Undirected Formations. 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 1445–1450, 2012.   
[138] K. Oh and H. Ahn. Distance-based undirected formations of singleintegrator and double-integrator modeled agents in n-dimensional space. International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control (IJRNC), 24(12):1809–1820, 2014.   
[139] M. Basiri, A. Bishop, and P. Jensfelt. Distributed control of triangular formations with angle-only constraints. Systems and Control Letters, 59(2):147–154, 2010.   
[140] Tolga Eren. Formation shape control based on bearing rigidity. International Journal of Control (IJC), 85(9):1361–1379, 2012.   
[141] M. Trinh, K. Oh, and H. Ahn. Angle-based control of directed acyclic formations with three-leaders. 2014 International Conference on Mechatronics and Control (ICMC), Jinzhou, China, pages 2268–2271, 2014.   
[142] S. Zhao and D. Zelazo. Bearing rigidity and almost global bearing-only formation stabilization. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (TAC), 61(5):1255–1268, 2016.   
[143] A. Bishop, M. Deghat, B. Anderson, and Y. Hong. Distributed formation control with relaxed motion requirements. International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control (IJRNC), 25(17):3210–3230, 2015.   
[144] K. Fathian, D. Rachinskii, M. Spong, and N. Gans. Globally asymptotically stable distributed control for distance and bearing based multi-agent formations. Proceedings of the IEEE American Control Conference (ACC), Boston, MA, USA, pages 4642–4648, 2016.   
[145] Hector Garcia De Marina, Bayu Jayawardhana, and Ming Cao. Distributed rotational and translational maneuvering of rigid formations and their applications. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 32(3):684–697, 2016.   
[146] Zhiyong Sun. Distributed stabilization control of rigid formations with prescribed orientations. Cooperative Coordination and Formation Control for Multi-agent Systems, pages 81–99, 2018.
