Fig. 10: Shows the structure to find the minimum of 7 variables. This structure provides us a FFNN, for the computation of min value. The depth of FFNN increases logarithmically with the number of inputs. In this approach we split the set of inputs in the pairs of two. Then we apply min ReLU network on each pair and continue this recursive algorithm until the minimum is achieved. The presence of the elements like $^ { a _ { 7 } } ,$ , which is not involved in min computation at the first layer, requires us to introduce linear activation functions in companion with ReLU in that layer, since we need to construct a unique FFNN that receives all the 7 elements and returns the minimum of them.

and we can conclude if,

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} \rho I _ {n} & 0 _ {n \times 1} \\ 0 _ {1 \times n} & - 1 \end{array} \right] \geq 0 (\text { positive   semi - definite })
$$

then $\rho _ { 1 } = \sqrt { \rho }$ is certainly the desired certificate. Unfortunately due to presence of the negative scalar −1, this constraint is infeasible and we attempt to provide feasibility with provision of new linear information about function f . Thus the basic idea of convex programming technique is to provide the best symmetric linear matrix $Q \mathrm { i n f o }$ and transformation matrix T that bring feasibility for,

$$
Q _ {\text { info }} - T ^ {\top} \left[ \begin{array}{c c} \rho I _ {n} & 0 _ {n \times 1} \\ 0 _ {1 \times n} & - 1 \end{array} \right] T \leq 0, \tag {19}
$$

where $Q _ { \mathrm { i n f o } }$ is a linear combination of quadratic constraints (QC), where every single QC represents a linear information about function $f .$ In this constraint $\rho = \rho _ { 1 } ^ { 2 }$ , where $\rho _ { 1 }$ is the certificate introduced in Theorem 3 for $f : [ \ell , ~ u ] \to $ $[ a , \ b ] , \ \ell , u \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and $a , b \in \mathbb { R }$ . We add new information utilizing s-procedure technique proposed in [15], [18]. A thorough introduction for computation of $Q _ { \mathrm { i n f o } }$ is provided in [15], [18]. Provision of high quality information results in feasibility and tightness, but the presence of insufficient information results in infeasibility.

QC for Non-linearities in feed-back structure: Figure 11 shows the layers of TNN. The layers of TNN are entitled with $n = 1 , \cdots , N$ . These layers are departed into nonlinear and linear portions. The pre-activation of nonlinear portion, $p \ell$ is fed in nonlinear portion and results in post-activation $z _ { \ell } .$ .
