In Chapter 5 we used previous continuous control schemes to derive appropriate discrete abstractions and synthesize controllers for the satisfaction of complex tasks expressed as temporal logic formulas. We first considered local tasks for multi-agent systems, such as UAVs and robotic manipulators, and then we focused on cases where unactuated objects have their own specifications. We considered discretizations both using predefined regions of interest as well as a full workspace partition. Collision avoidance was taken into account to define safe transitions among the discrete states. Linear and Metric Interval Temporal Logic formulas were applied and control synthesis was performed using standard automata-based formal verification techniques.

In Chapter 6 we developed extension algorithms for single-agent problems. Firstly, we considered the motion planning problem of a single agent in an obstacle-cluttered environment under timed temporal tasks. By using previous results on safe timed navigation, we developed an algorithm that guarantees the satisfaction of the timed specification as well as asymptotically optimal performance in terms of energy efficiency. Secondly, we addressed the problem of motion planning of high-dimensional complex systems in obstacle-cluttered environments with uncertain dynamics. We integrated adaptive control techniques with sampling-based motion planning algorithms to develop a two-layer framework that guarantees the safe navigation of the system to its goal. Finally, we developed a novel model-free adaptive control scheme that guarantees asymptotic stability of a class of nonlinear systems while respecting predefined funnel constraints.
