# REFERENCES

[1] Almèr, S., Mariéthoz, S., and Morari, M., "Dynamic Phasor Model Predictive Control of Switched Mode Power Converters", IEEE Transaction on Control System Technology, Vol. 23, No. 1, January 2015.   
[2] N. Blin, P. Riedinger, J. Daafouz, L. Grimaud and P. Feyel, "Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Harmonic Control in Continuous Time," in IEEE Trans. on Aut. Control, vol. 67, no. 8, 2022.   
[3] Bolzern, P. and Colaneri, P. (1988). "The periodic Lyapunov equation". SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications, 9(4), 499-512.   
[4] Boyd, S., El Ghaoui, L., Feron, E., and Balakrishnan, V. "Linear Matrix Inequalities in System and Control Theory", Studies in Applied math. SIAM, 1994.   
[5] Farkas, M.: "Periodic motions" (Springer-Verlag, New York, 1994)   
[6] Gohberg, I., Goldberg, S. and Kaashoek, M.A., Classes of Linear Operators, Operator Theory Advances and Applications Vol. 63 Birkhauser, Vol. II, 1993.   
[7] Ikeda, K., Azuma, T., and Uchida, K., "Infinite-dimensional LMI approach to analysis and synthesis for linear time-delay systems", Kybernetika 37(4):505-520, 2001.   
[8] P. Riedinger and J. Daafouz, "Solving Infinite-Dimensional Harmonic Lyapunov and Riccati Equations," To appear in IEEE Trans. on Aut. Control, doi: 10.1109/TAC.2022.3229943.   
[9] Sanders, S. R., Noworolski, J. M., Liu, X. Z. and Verghese, G. C., "Generalized averaging method for power conversion circuits". IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, 6(2), p.p. 251-259, 1991.   
[10] Wereley, N. M., "Analysis and control of linear periodically time-varying systems", Doctoral dissertation, MIT, 1990.   
[11] J. C. Willems. Least squares stationary optimal control and the algebraic Riccati equation. IEEE Trans. on Aut. Control, 16(6):621-634, 1971.   
[12] Zhou, J. "Harmonic Lyapunov equations in continuous-time periodic systems: solutions and properties." IET Control Theory & Applications 1.4 (2007): 946-954.   
[13] Zhou, J., "Derivation and Solution of Harmonic Riccati Equations via Contraction Mapping Theorem", Transactions of the Society of Instrument and Control Engineers 44(2), p.p. 156-163, 2008.
