[323] Steven M LaValle and James J Kuffner Jr. Randomized kinodynamic planning. The international journal of robotics research, 20(5):378–400, 2001.   
[324] Ioan A S¸ucan and Lydia E Kavraki. Kinodynamic motion planning by interior-exterior cell exploration. Algorithmic Foundation of Robotics VIII, pages 449–464, 2009.   
[325] Eduard Vidal, Mark Moll, Narc´ıs Palomeras, Juan David Hern´andez, Marc Carreras, and Lydia E Kavraki. Online multilayered motion planning with dynamic constraints for autonomous underwater vehicles. 2019 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 8936–8942, 2019.   
[326] Russ Tedrake, Ian R Manchester, Mark Tobenkin, and John W Roberts. Lqr-trees: Feedback motion planning via sums-of-squares verification. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 29(8):1038–1052, 2010.   
[327] Philipp Reist, Pascal Preiswerk, and Russ Tedrake. Feedback-motionplanning with simulation-based lqr-trees. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 35(11):1393–1416, 2016.   
[328] Albert Wu, Sadra Sadraddini, and Russ Tedrake. R3t: Rapidlyexploring random reachable set tree for optimal kinodynamic planning of nonlinear hybrid systems. 2019.   
[329] Anirudha Majumdar and Russ Tedrake. Funnel libraries for realtime robust feedback motion planning. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 36(8):947–982, 2017.   
[330] Noel E Du Toit and Joel W Burdick. Probabilistic collision checking with chance constraints. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 27(4):809– 815, 2011.   
[331] Eric Pairet, Juan David Hern´andez, Morteza Lahijanian, and Marc \` Carreras. Uncertainty-based online mapping and motion planning for marine robotics guidance. 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 2367–2374, 2018.   
[332] Adam Bry and Nicholas Roy. Rapidly-exploring random belief trees for motion planning under uncertainty. 2011 IEEE international conference on robotics and automation, pages 723–730, 2011.   
[333] Ali-Akbar Agha-Mohammadi, Suman Chakravorty, and Nancy M Amato. Firm: Sampling-based feedback motion-planning under motion uncertainty and imperfect measurements. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 33(2):268–304, 2014.
