[168] Farhad Mehdifar, Charalampos P. Bechlioulis, Farzad Hashemzadeh, and Mahdi Baradarannia. Prescribed performance distance-based formation control of multi-agent systems (extended version), 2019.   
[169] T. Lee, D. E. Chang, and Y. Eun. Attitude control strategies overcoming the topological obstruction on so (3). American Control Conference (ACC), Seattle, WA, USA, pages 2225–2230, 2017.   
[170] T. Lee, M .Leok, and N. H. McClamroch. Control of complex maneuvers for a quadrotor uav using geometric methods on se(3). arXiv:1003.2005, 2010.   
[171] Leonard Asimow and Ben Roth. The rigidity of graphs. Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 245:279–289, 1978.   
[172] Hyo-Sung Ahn. Formation Control: Approaches to Distributed Agents. Springer International Publishing, 2020.   
[173] Shiyu Zhao and Daniel Zelazo. Localizability and distributed protocols for bearing-based network localization in arbitrary dimensions. Automatica, 69:334–341, 2016.   
[174] Giulia Michieletto, Daniel Zelazo, and Angelo Cenedese. A unified dissertation on bearing rigidity theory. CoRR, abs/1902.03101, 2019.   
[175] R E. Kalaba and Firdaus Udwadia. Equations of motion for nonholonomic, constrained dynamical systems via gauss’s principle. ASME. J. Appl. Mech, 60(3):662–668, 1993.   
[176] Stephen Boyd and Lieven Vandenberghe. Convex optimization. Cambridge university press, 2004.   
[177] Firdaus Udwadia and R E. Kalaba. A new perspective on constrained motion. Proceedings of The Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 439:407–410, 1992.   
[178] Arthur Albert. Regression and the Moore-Penrose Pseudoinverse. Elsevier, 1972.   
[179] Nicholas IM Gould. On practical conditions for the existence and uniqueness of solutions to the general equality quadratic programming problem. Mathematical Programming, 32(1):90–99, 1985.   
[180] R. Eric, P. N. S. Surya F., and Marc. V-rep: a versatile and scalable robot simulation framework. Proceedings of The International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2013.
