A robot proximity function, a measure for the distance between two robots $i , l \in \hat { \mathcal { N } }$ , is defined as $\begin{array} { r } { \beta _ { i , l } ( q _ { i } , q _ { l } ) : = \| q _ { i } - q _ { l } \| ^ { 2 } - ( r _ { i } + r _ { l } ) ^ { 2 } , \forall i , l \in \mathcal { N } , i \neq l } \end{array}$ . The term relation is used to describe the possible collision schemes that can be defined in a multirobot team, possibly including obstacles. The set of relations between the members of the team can be defined as the set of all possible collision schemes between the members of the team. A binary relation is a relation between two robots. Any relation can be expressed as a set of binary relations. A relation tree is the set of robot/obstacles that form a linked team. Each relation may consist of more than one relation tree. The number of binary relations in a relation is called relation level. Illustrative examples can be found in [314]. A relation proximity function (RPF) provides a measure of the distance between the robots involved in a relation. Each relation has its own RPF. A RPF is the sum of the robot proximity functions of a relation. It assumes the value of zero whenever the related robots collide (since the involved robot proximity functions will be zero) and increases with respect to the distance of the related robots. The RPF of relation j at level k is given by $( b _ { R _ { j } } ) _ { k } : = \mathrm { ~  ~ { ~ \sum ~ } ~ } \beta _ { i , m }$ , where $( i , m ) \in ( R _ { j } ) _ { k }$ we omit the arguments $q _ { i } , q _ { k }$ for notational brevity. A relation verification function (RVF) is defined as

$$g _ {R _ {j}} := (b _ {R _ {j}}) _ {k} + \lambda \frac {(b _ {R _ {j}}) _ {k}}{(b _ {R _ {j}}) _ {k} + (B _ {(R _ {j} ^ {C}) _ {k}}) ^ {\frac {1}{h}}},$$
