[245] Yan Yan and Gregory S Chirikjian. Closed-form characterization of the minkowski sum and difference of two ellipsoids. Geometriae Dedicata, 177(1):103–128, 2015.   
[246] Elon Rimon and Stephen P Boyd. Obstacle collision detection using best ellipsoid fit. Journ. Intell. Rob. Syst., 18(2):105–126, 1997.   
[247] Andrew Best, Sahil Narang, and Dinesh Manocha. Real-time reciprocal collision avoidance with elliptical agents. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 298–305, 2016.   
[248] Muhammad Zakiyullah Romdlony and Bayu Jayawardhana. Stabilization with guaranteed safety using control lyapunov–barrier function. Automatica, 66:39–47, 2016.   
[249] Xiangru Xu. Constrained control of input–output linearizable systems using control sharing barrier functions. Automatica, 87:195–201, 2018.   
[250] Dimitra Panagou, Duˇsan M Stipanovi´c, and Petros G Voulgaris. Distributed coordination control for multi-robot networks using lyapunovlike barrier functions. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 61(3):617–632, 2015.   
[251] Lars Lindemann and Dimos V Dimarogonas. Control barrier functions for signal temporal logic tasks. IEEE control systems letters, 3(1):96– 101, 2019.   
[252] C Canudas De Wit, Hans Olsson, Karl Johan Astrom, and Pablo Lischinsky. A new model for control of systems with friction. IEEE Transactions on automatic control, 40(3):419–425, 1995.   
[253] C Makkar, WE Dixon, WG Sawyer, and G Hu. A new continuously differentiable friction model for control systems design. Proceedings of the IEEE/ASME International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics., pages 600–605, 2005.   
[254] Nathan P Koenig and Andrew Howard. Design and use paradigms for gazebo, an open-source multi-robot simulator. IEEE/RSJ International Confernece on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 4, 2004.   
[255] Rafael Kelly, Victor Santib´a˜nez Davila, and Julio Antonio Lor´ıa Perez. Control of robot manipulators in joint space. Springer-Verlag, 2005.   
[256] H. Kress-Gazit, G. Fainekos, and G. J. Pappas. Temporal-Logic-Based Reactive Mission and Motion Planning. IEEE Transactions on Robotics (TRO), 25(6):1370–1381, 2009.
