# VI. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK

In this paper, a control strategy for NCS affected by random variable delays and packet dropouts with a special focus on keeping the computational complexity of the control design as low as possible is proposed. This is achieved by first introducing a new buffering mechanism, which on the one hand simplifies the discrete-time model of the NCS significantly by ensuring that there is only one control signal acting between two sampling instants. On the other hand, it limits the additional delay introduced by the buffer to one sampling time. The resulting buffered NCS can be therefore easily described as a switched system, which reduces the complexity of the control design greatly, since procedures such as Jordan Form for the over-approximation of the NCS model to obtain a polytopic model suitable for stability analysis as in [4], [5] are no longer necessary. Hence, the stability conditions and controller synthesis can be defined in terms of strongly reduced number of LMIs. The performance and computational effort of the proposed control approaches is evaluated based on a simulation example which not only demonstrates greater flexibility of the proposed laws with respect to the transient behavior but highlights the achieved computational simplicity as well.

Future developments will focus on the impact on the transient behavior and systematic choice for $\gamma _ { i }$ . Furthermore, a generalization of the proposed strategies to more complex multihop or spatially distributed network structures is of interest.
