[94] Janick V Frasch, Andrew Gray, Mario Zanon, Hans Joachim Ferreau, Sebastian Sager, Francesco Borrelli, and Moritz Diehl. An autogenerated nonlinear mpc algorithm for real-time obstacle avoidance of ground vehicles. 2013 European Control Conference (ECC), pages 4136–4141, 2013.   
[95] F. Fontes, L. Magni, and Eva Gyurkovics. Sampled-data model predic- ´ tive control for nonlinear time-varying systems: Stability and robustness. Assessment and Future Directions of Nonlinear Model Predictive Control, pages 115–129, 2007.   
[96] Ryuta Ozawa and Kenji Tahara. Grasp and dexterous manipulation of multi-fingered robotic hands: a review from a control view point. Advanced Robotics, 31(19-20):1030–1050, 2017.   
[97] Jeffrey Kerr and Bernard Roth. Analysis of multifingered hands. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 4(4):3–17, 1986.   
[98] Arlene BA Cole, John Edmond Hauser, and Sosale Shankara Sastry. Kinematics and control of multifingered hands with rolling contact. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 34(4):398–404, 1989.   
[99] Yongxiang Fan, Liting Sun, Minghui Zheng, Wei Gao, and Masayoshi Tomizuka. Robust dexterous manipulation under object dynamics uncertainties. IEEE International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics (AIM), pages 613–619, 2017.   
[100] A. Caldas, A. Micaelli, M. Grossard, M. Makarov, P. Rodriguez-Ayerbe, and D. Dumur. Object-level impedance control for dexterous manipulation with contact uncertainties using an LMI-based approach. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 3668–3674, 2015.   
[101] T Wimb¨ock, C Ott, A Albu-Sch¨affer, and G Hirzinger. Comparison of object-level grasp controllers for dynamic dexterous manipulation. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 31(1):3–23, 2012.   
[102] Kenji Tahara, Suguru Arimoto, and Morio Yoshida. Dynamic object manipulation using a virtual frame by a triple soft-fingered robotic hand. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 4322–4327, 2010.   
[103] Akihiro Kawamura, Kenji Tahara, Ryo Kurazume, and Tsutomu Hasegawa. Dynamic grasping of an arbitrary polyhedral object. Robotica, 31(4):511–523, 2013.
