[104] Wenceslao Shaw-Cortez, Denny Oetomo, Chris Manzie, and Peter Choong. Tactile-based blind grasping: Trajectory tracking and disturbance rejection for in-hand manipulation of unknown objects. American Control Conference (ACC), pages 693–698, 2019.   
[105] S. Ueki, H. Kawasaki, and T. Mouri. Adaptive control of multi-fingered robot hand using quaternion. 17th IFAC World Congress, pages 6757– 6762, 2008.   
[106] S. Ueki, H. Kawasaki, T. Mouri, and A. Kaneshige. Object manipulation based on robust and adaptive control by hemispherical soft fingertips. 18th IFAC World Congress, 18:14654–14659, 2011.   
[107] C.C. Cheah, H.Y. Han, S. Kawamura, and S. Arimoto. Grasping and position control for multi-fingered robot hands with uncertain jacobian matrices. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 3:2403–2408, 1998.   
[108] Papat Fungtammasan and Tetsuyou Watanabe. Grasp input optimization taking contact position and object information uncertainties into consideration. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 28(5):1170–1177, 2012.   
[109] C. P. Bechlioulis and G. A. Rovithakis. A low-complexity global approximation-free control scheme with prescribed performance for unknown pure feedback systems. Automatica, 50(4):1217–1226, 2014.   
[110] E. Lavretsky and K. Wise. Robust and Adaptive Control: With Aerospace Applications. Springer Science and Business Media, 2012.   
[111] R. Campa, K. Camarillo, and L. Arias. Kinematic modeling and control of robot manipulators via unit quaternions: Application to a spherical wrist. Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 6474–6479, 2006.   
[112] J.-J. E. Slotine and W. Li. On the adaptive control of robot manipulators. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 6(3):49–59, 1987.   
[113] S. P. Bhat and D. S. Bernstein. A topological obstruction to continuous global stabilization of rotational motion and the unwinding phenomenon. Systems & Control Letters, 39(1):63–70, 2000.   
[114] C. G. Mayhew, R. G. Sanfelice, and A. R. Teel. Quaternion-based hybrid control for robust global attitude tracking. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 56(11):2555–2566, 2011.
