constrained object. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 12(3):219–230, 1993.   
[51] C. D. Kopf. Dynamic two arm hybrid position/force control. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 5(4):369–376, 1989.   
[52] F. Caccavale, P. Chiacchio, and S. Chiaverini. Task-space regulation of cooperative manipulators. Automatica, 36(6):879–887, 2000.   
[53] F. Caccavale, P. Chiacchio, A. Marino, and L. Villani. Six-dof impedance control of dual-arm cooperative manipulators. IEEE/ASME Transactions On Mechatronics, 13(5):576–586, 2008.   
[54] D. Heck, D. Kostic, A. Denasi, and H. Nijmeijer. Internal and external force-based impedance control for cooperative manipulation. Proceedings of the IEEE European Control Conference (ECC), pages 2299–2304, 2013.   
[55] S. Erhart and S. Hirche. Adaptive force/velocity control for multirobot cooperative manipulation under uncertain kinematic parameters. Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 307–314, 2013.   
[56] S. Erhart, D. Sieber, and S. Hirche. An impedance-based control architecture for multi-robot cooperative dual-arm mobile manipulation. Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 315–322, 2013.   
[57] Y. Kume, Y. Hirata, and K. Kosuge. Coordinated motion control of multiple mobile manipulators handling a single object without using force/torque sensors. Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 4077– 4082, 2007.   
[58] J. Szewczyk, F. Plumet, and P. Bidaud. Planning and controlling cooperating robots through distributed impedance. Journal of Robotic Systems, 19(6):283–297, 2002.   
[59] A. Tsiamis, C. K. Verginis, C. P. Bechlioulis, and K. J. Kyriakopoulos. Cooperative manipulation exploiting only implicit communication. Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 864–869, 2015.   
[60] F. Ficuciello, A. Romano, L. Villani, and B. Siciliano. Cartesian impedance control of redundant manipulators for human-robot comanipulation. Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 2120–2125, 2014.
