Terminal cost. The sparse cost requires using a terminal cost. We use the geodesic distance to the goal as a terminal cost. For filter-aware MPC, we re-calculate geodesic distances by respecting the constraint. If a location violates the constraints, we don’t allow the shortest path to lead through that location. This is the same as treating the constrained areas as obstacles while calculating shortest distances.

Random search hyper-parameters. The proposal distribution samples a random direction between left and right and turns in that direction for a random number of time steps using the maximum turning angle. We also sample a random time index to start moving forward in and then move forward with the maximum speed for a random number of time steps. We take 200 candidates with a horizon of 20. For each plan we estimate the expected future total cost with a single Monte Carlo sample. We execute the three controls of each plan, before re-planning. The MPC objective is the λ-return with $\lambda = 1 . 0$ and $\beta = 1 . 0$ .

Trackability data. We collect rollout for trackability learning by using MPC on the true system. We take 900 rollouts with 200 steps.

Trackability learning. We estimate trackability with TD(λ), setting $\lambda = 0 . 9 5$ and $\beta = 0 . 9 5$ . We divide the training rollouts into chunks of length 5. We only accept a chunk into the training set if the tracking error at the second time step (i.e. after using the first control) is less than 0.99. The tracking error is defined as the squared distance between the agent’s true and inferred locations. The network’s input is the agent’s location only (i.e. we disregard the orientation component). The parameter-averaging factor (see appendix A) is set to 0.995 and we use 10000 gradient updates. The learning rate is set to 0.0001. We use use 128 hidden units and two hidden layers with relu activations. The batch size is 512.

Comparative study. We compare filter-aware MPC and regular MPC using 90 rollout of length 200. The easy setting uses the normal, uncorrupted RGB-D image in both corridors. For filter-aware MPC, the constraint threshold δ is set to 3.5.
