# 5. Conclusion

This research proposes a fault-tolerant super-twisting sliding mode controller for a quadrotor. Firstly, the development of the quadrotor’s dynamic model is explained. Then, the working principle of the proposed controller is explained. To eliminate the chattering effect in the sliding mode controller, the signum function has been replaced with a continuous function. Then, it is explained how the fault-tolerant controller is implemented by using the control allocation algorithm. Thanks to the control allocation algorithm, 60% power loss in a single rotor can be tolerated. In this way, the quadrotor can follow the given references in a fault-tolerant manner. In the simulations section, different simulations have been made for cases with and without rotor failure. In this way, the efficiency of the fault-tolerant sliding mode controller is better observed. Simulations were made for reference tracking, and the results were compared. It has been observed that in the absence of rotor failure, the quadrotor follows the sinusoidal references almost flawlessly. In the case of 60% rotor failure in a single rotor, it has been observed that the quadrotor follows the references stably thanks to the control allocation algorithm. In addition, rise time, overshoot and settling time data were obtained for cases with or without rotor failure. When the data obtained are examined, it is seen that the quadrotor successfully follows all the references, almost without overshoot, in the absence of rotor failure. When power loss occurs due to rotor error, the quadrotor can follow the references by showing a small overshoot. As a result, it has been observed that the fault-tolerant super-twisting sliding mode controller with control allocation works successfully. In future studies, a control allocation algorithm will be developed that will enable the quadrotor aircraft to fly stably in case of a failure of the two rotors.

Author Contribution: All authors contributed equally to the main contributor to this paper. All authors read and approved the final paper.

Funding: This research received no external funding.

Acknowledgment: We would like to express our sincere gratitude to our supervisor, Professor Cosku Kasnakoglu, for his valuable guidance and support throughout the research process. His expertise and insights were invaluable in shaping our research and helping us to overcome challenges.

Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
