# H.3. AI2-THOR

Problem setting. The state is the 2D location, 1D robot facing angle (yaw), and 1D camera angle relative to that. The observations are RGB-D images. Controls are 2D velocity, robot turning angle, camera turning angle. The maximum speed is 0.04 and the maximum turning angles are $1 0 ^ { \circ }$ . The cost is designed to make the agent follow a loop, which is specified by a list of landmarks. Given the agent’s location $l _ { t }$ at time t, we find the closest landmark $p _ { t } ^ { 1 }$ and the next landmark from the list $p _ { t } ^ { 2 }$ . We define a local target $p _ { t } ^ { * } = p _ { t } ^ { 1 } + 0 . 5 5 * ( p _ { t } ^ { 2 } - p _ { t } ^ { 1 } )$ . The final cost is then:

$$c (\mathbf {z} _ {t}, \mathbf {u} _ {t}, \mathbf {z} _ {t + 1}) = \| p _ {t + 1} ^ {*} - l _ {t + 1} \| + 1 0 * \langle \nu_ {t + 1}, p _ {t + 1} ^ {2} - p _ {t + 1} ^ {1} \rangle + 1 0 * \langle p _ {t + 1} ^ {2} - p _ {t + 1} ^ {1}, p _ {t + 1} ^ {*} - p _ {t} ^ {*} \rangle ,$$

where $\nu _ { t + 1 }$ is the velocity component of the control $\mathbf { u } _ { t + 1 }$ and $\langle \cdot , \cdot \rangle$ is the scalar product. The robot is initialised at (0.0, -2.5) facing the southern wall. We use the scene ”FloorPlan10” from the set of AI2-THOR environments. We add zero-centered Gaussian noise with a scale of 0.02 to the velocity controls.

Dynamics equations. Let $\alpha , \psi \in [ 0 , 3 6 0 ^ { \circ } ]$ be orientations and $l \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ be a location. The state concatenates these: $\mathbf { z } = [ \alpha , \psi , l ] ^ { T }$ . Let $\dot { \alpha } , \dot { \psi } \in [ - 1 0 ^ { \circ } , 1 0 ^ { \circ } ]$ be turning angles and $\nu \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ a velocity vector with $\lVert \nu \rVert _ { 2 } \leq 0 . 0 4$ . The control concatenates these: $\mathbf { \dot { u } } = [ \dot { \alpha } , \dot { \psi } , \nu ] ^ { T }$ . Then, the dynamics are:

$$\alpha_ {t + 1} = \alpha_ {t} + \dot {\alpha} _ {t},\psi_ {t + 1} = \psi_ {t} + \dot {\psi} _ {t},l _ {t + 1} = l _ {t} + \nu_ {t} + \mathbf {w} _ {t} \qquad \text { with } \mathbf {w} _ {t} \sim \mathcal {N} (0, 0. 0 2).$$

The observations x are RGB-D images produced by the AI2-THOR simulator. For that we teleport the camera to the 3D location $[ l _ { t } , 0 . \bar { 9 ] } ^ { T }$ and yaw angle $\alpha _ { t } + \psi _ { t }$ , where 0.9 is the constant elevation of the camera. Note that these dynamics are subject to collision handling done by AI2-THOR.

State estimator. We use the same state estimator as in the ViZDoom experiments. We assume that the initial state of the system is known.
