# H.2. ViZDoom

Problem setting. The system state is the 2D location and 1D yaw of the agent. The observations are RGB-D images. The controls are the turning angle and forward velocity, with a maximum angle of $6 ^ { \circ }$ and a maximum speed of 0.015. The cost is 0 when the agent is within a radius of 0.1 of the goal, 1 otherwise. The controls are perturbed by clipped Gaussian noise. The clipping ensures that noise does not flip the direction of the control. If the agent tries to turn left by $2 ^ { \circ }$ , the noise is clipped to be in $[ - 2 , \infty )$ , such that noise cannot cause it to turn right instead of left. Likewise, if the agent tries to move forward with a speed of 0.01, the speed noise is clipped to be in $[ - 0 . 0 1 , \infty ]$ ] such that it cannot move backward instead of forward. When the agent enters the left corridor, every pixel in the RGB-D observation is set to zero. The environment is contained in the square area $[ 0 , 1 ] ^ { 2 }$ .

Dynamics equations. Let $\alpha \in [ 0 , 3 6 0 ^ { \circ } ]$ be an orientation and $l \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ a location. The system state is a concatenation of these: ${ \bf z } = [ \alpha , l ] ^ { T }$ . Let $\dot { \alpha } \in [ - 6 ^ { \circ } , 6 ^ { \circ } ]$ be a turning angle and $s \in [ - 0 . 0 1 5 , 0 . 0 1 5 ]$ a forward speed. The control is a concatenation of these: $\mathbf { u } = [ \dot { \alpha } , s ] ^ { T }$ . The dynamics are then:

$$\alpha_ {t + 1} = \alpha_ {t} + \operatorname{sign} (\dot {\alpha} _ {t}) \max (0, | \dot {\alpha} _ {t} | + \epsilon_ {t} ^ {\alpha}) \text { with } \epsilon_ {t} ^ {\alpha} \sim \mathcal {N} (0, 2 ^ {\circ}),
l _ {t + 1} = l _ {t} + \left[ \begin{array}{c} \cos (\alpha_ {t + 1}) \\ \sin (\alpha_ {t + 1}) \end{array} \right] \max (0, s _ {t} + \epsilon_ {t} ^ {s}) \mathrm{with} \epsilon_ {t} ^ {s} \sim \mathcal {N} (0, 0. 0 0 3 5).
$$

The way in which noise is injected into the dynamics was previously used by Kayalibay et al. (2022). Note that these dynamics are further subject to collision handling with the environment. Here, we only allow moving from $l _ { t }$ to $l _ { t + 1 }$ if the line segment connecting these points does not intersect any wall. If it does intersect a wall, we only allow moving up to the intersection point. The observations x are RGB-D images created by the ViZDoom simulator.

State estimator. We use colored point-to-plane ICP (Chen and Medioni, 1992; Steinbrucker et al. ¨ , 2011; Audras et al., 2011) for state estimation (see appendix F).
