Terminal cost. The sparse cost requires using a terminal cost. We use the geodesic distance to the target area as a terminal cost. For filter-aware MPC, we re-calculate geodesic distances by respecting the constraint. If a location violates the constraints, we don’t allow the shortest path to lead through that location. This is the same as treating the constrained areas as obstacles while calculating shortest distances.

Random search hyper-parameters. The proposal distribution samples a random control from a uniform distribution for the first time step and repeats it for the rest of the horizon. We take 100 candidates with a horizon of 10. For each plan we estimate the expected future total cost with 50 Monte Carlo samples. We execute the first control only, before re-estimating the state and re-planning. The MPC objective is the λ-return with λ = 1.0 and $\beta = 1 . 0$ .

Trackability data. We collect rollout for trackability learning by using MPC on the true system. Here, the planning horizon is set to 5. We take 500 rollouts with 30 steps. The initial location is sampled uniformly over the space.

Trackability learning. We estimate trackability with TD(λ), setting $\lambda = 0 . 9 5$ and $\beta = 0 . 8$ . We divide the training rollouts into chunks of length 5. The tracking error is defined as the weighted sum of the squared error of each particle, weighted by its particle weight. The parameter-averaging factor (see appendix A) is set to 0.995 and we use 5000 gradient updates. The learning rate is set to 0.001. We use use 128 hidden units and two hidden layers with relu activations. The batch size is 512.

Comparative study. We compare filter-aware MPC and regular MPC using 100 rollout of length 50. The easy setting uses an emission noise of 0.03 everywhere, omitting the dark zone. For filter-aware MPC, the constraint threshold δ is set to 0.6.
