# H.4. Reacher

Problem setting. The state is the 52-dimensional physics state used by Brax (referred to as QP in the Brax documentation). The observations are joint angles and the vector from the tip of the arm to the target. The controls are joint actuation signals for each joint. The cost is the absolute distance between the tip of the arm and the target. Whenever this distance drops below 0.05, the agent gets a bonus cost of −100 for one time step. If the distance rises above 0.05 again, this bonus is canceled out by a one-time penalty of 100. The initial state of the arm is as defined by the Brax implementation of the reacher. The target sampling is modified to make sure that targets are never in the dark zone, where observations are corrupted. We inject noise into the dynamics by perturbing the controls with zero-centered Gaussian noise with a scale of 0.1. Whenever the x-coordinate of any point on the arm is less than −0.02 (detected by checking 20 equally-spaced points on the arm), the observations are replaced by zero.

State estimator. We use a bootstrap particle filter with Gaussian distributions placed on the transition and emission functions. The transition scale is 0.005 and the emission scale is 0.001. We assume the initial state is known, and use 100 particles for all future time steps. Though the state-space if 52-dimensional, many of the components are static and need to have specific values for accurate physics simulation. We set these static components to their ground-truth values and keep them fixed.

Terminal cost. Since the cost is not sparse, no terminal cost was necessary.

Random search hyper-parameters. The proposal distribution samples a random control for each joint and then applies that control for a random duration and from a random start. Some movements require both joints to be actuated at the same time, either with the same signal or with different signals (e.g. one joint turns left while the other turns right). To make sure we get enough samples where this is the case, we use same random time interval for both links in one third of the candidates and use both the same random interval and the same random control signal in another third. The remaining third samples different random intervals and controls for each joint. We use 300 candidates and a planning horizon of 22. We take 5 MC-samples per plan and use the first 3 controls of every plan before replanning.
