# C. Robustness of the $2 ^ { n d }$ order serial Consensus.

Theorems 6 and 7 show that the serial consensus can be perturbed and still achieve $n ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ order consensus. Now we want to illustrate what the block $\Delta _ { k }$ can be. Consider the perturbed $2 ^ { \mathrm { n d } }$ order consensus system in Theorem 6. Writing out all terms we get

$$s ^ {2} (I + \Delta_ {2}) X = U _ {\text { ref }} - (s (2 I + \Delta_ {1}) L X + (I + \Delta_ {0}) L ^ {2} X).$$

In this form, the $\Delta _ { 2 }$ block can be thought of as representing model errors; we may control a system which we model as being N identical double integrator systems but in reality they may differ. This is obviously the case for vehicle platoons, which are often modeled as chains of identical double integrators. Through our theorem we can for instance allow $\Delta _ { 2 }$ to be a diagonal transfer matrix with elements [∆2]i,i = kiTis+1 $\begin{array} { r } { [ \Delta _ { 2 } ] _ { i , i } ~ = ~ \frac { k _ { i } } { T _ { i } s + 1 } } \end{array}$ where $| k _ { i } | ~ < ~ 1$ and $T _ { i } ~ > ~ 0$ for all i. Then, the closed loop system would remain stable despite the heterogeneous agents. The blocks $\Delta _ { 1 }$ and $\Delta _ { 0 }$ are also important. For instance the signals $L ^ { 2 } x ( t )$ and $L { \dot { x } } ( t )$ may not be directly measured but estimated through linear filters. This could be thought of as unmodeled dynamics which these blocks can capture.

If we focus on Theorem 7, then the perturbed model is

$$(s (\Delta_ {0} + I) + (\Delta_ {1} + I) L _ {1}) (s I + (\Delta_ {2} + I) L _ {2}) X = U _ {\mathrm{ref}}$$

The theorem only asserts robustness for symmetrical graph Laplacians $L _ { k }$ . However, since $\Delta _ { k }$ can also be constant matrices, it is also possible to construct new (asymmetric) graph Laplacians $L _ { k } ^ { \prime } = ( I + \Delta _ { k } ) L _ { k }$ by designing the $\Delta _ { k }$ blocks.
