Terminal cost. Since the cost is not sparse, no terminal cost was necessary in this environment.

Random search hyper-parameters. We use a combination of two optimisers for filter-aware MPC. The first plans the controls for moving the robot: the velocity and turning angle. The second takes the movement controls as given and only plans the camera angle. Only the second controller looks at the constraints. The first planner is implemented the same way as in the ViZDoom experiments. The second planner’s proposal distribution first picks a random camera angle within the set of angles that can be reached in the planning horizon. Then it finds the individual turning angles at every time step that are required to reach that camera angle and maintain it. Both planners use the same hyper-parameters: 5000 candidate plans, a horizon of 5, 1 Monte Carlo sample per plan and a replanning interval of 3 time steps. For regular MPC we only use the first planner and set the relative camera angle to zero, so that the camera is always facing the direction of movement.

Trackability data. We collect training data by using regular MPC on the true system, taking 4500 rollouts of length 30. For this procedure we place the agent at a random location and facing angle.

Trackability learning. We estimate trackability with TD(λ), setting λ = 0.95 and β = 0.95. We do not further divide the training rollouts into subsequences, and use the original rollouts themselves. We only accept a rollout into the training set if the tracking error at the second time step (i.e. after using the first control) is less than 0.99. The tracking error is defined as the squared distance between the agent’s true and inferred locations. The network’s input is the agent’s true location and absolute camera angle (i.e. robot facing angle plus the relative camera angle) converted to cosine-sine representation. The parameter-averaging factor (see appendix A) is set to 0.995 and we use 10000 gradient updates. The learning rate is set to 0.001. We use use 128 hidden units and two hidden layers with relu activations. The batch size is 512.
