# A. Experimental Environments

In this section, we introduce the environments we use for our experimental results in Section IV.

1) DecTiger: We consider a parameterized extension of the DecTiger [34], [19] problem with three parameters $( N , d , \beta )$ : Two agents face N closed doors. Behind one of the doors is a ferocious tiger, while behind all other doors are boxes of tiger-shaped cookies. At each time, each agent has $N + 1$ choices: open one of the doors, or listen for the roar of the tiger. However, listening has a cost and is prone to error: an agent hears the roar from the correct door with probability $p ~ = ~ 0 . 8 5 / ( 0 . 7 + 0 . 1 5 N )$ and any other door with probability $q = 0 . 1 5 / ( 0 . 7 + 0 . 1 5 N )$ . The instantaneous reward for the agents are listed in Table III. The discount factor is β. Initially, the tiger is placed behind a uniform random door. The state of the world does not change if both agents choose to listen. If any door is opened by either agent, then the tiger resets itself to a uniform random location. If both agents choose to listen, then at the next time step, they will obtain conditionally independent observations each following the distribution described above. If either of the agents opens any door, then all observations will be independently uniform random and independent of the tiger’s actual position, regardless of the other agent’s action.

<table><tr><td> $a^{1}\backslash a^{2}$ </td><td>listens</td><td>open tiger door</td><td>open other door</td></tr><tr><td>listens</td><td>-2</td><td>-101</td><td> $\frac{20}{N}-1$ </td></tr><tr><td>open tiger door</td><td>-101</td><td>-50</td><td>-100</td></tr><tr><td>open other door</td><td> $\frac{20}{N}-1$ </td><td>-100</td><td> $\frac{40}{N}$ </td></tr></table>

TABLE III INSTANTANEOUS REWARDS FOR DecTiger(N, d, β)
