# H.1. Toy setup

Problem setting. The system state is the 2D location of the point. The observations are the state with additive Gaussian noise. The controls are 2D velocities, with a speed limit of 0.05. The cost is 0 when the point is inside the goal area, 1 otherwise. Walls block the agent’s movement. Each control is perturbed by additive Gaussian noise with a scale of 0.03 before being used. The observation noise is 0.03 outside of the dark zone and 1.0 inside. The dark zone is centered at (0.5, 0.5) and has a radius of 0.3. The environment is contained in the square area $[ 0 , 1 ] ^ { 2 }$ .

Dynamics equations. Let $\mathbf { z } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ be a state, $\mathbf { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ and observation and $\mathbf { u } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ a control with $\| \mathbf { u } \| _ { 2 } \leq 0 . 0 5$ . The system dynamics are:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {\mathbf {u}} _ {t} = \mathbf {u} _ {t} + \mathbf {w} _ {t} \qquad \mathrm{with} \mathbf {w} _ {t} \sim \mathcal {N} (0, 0. 0 3), \\ \mathbf {z} _ {t + 1} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \mathbf {z} _ {t} + \tilde {\mathbf {u}} _ {t} & \text {no collision} \\ \mathbf {z} _ {t} - 0. 0 1 \tilde {\mathbf {u}} _ {t} / (\| \tilde {\mathbf {u}} _ {t} \| _ {2} + 0. 0 0 0 1) & \text {collision} \end{array} \right., \\ \mathbf {x} _ {t} = \mathbf {z} _ {t} + \mathbf {v} _ {t} \qquad \mathrm{with} \mathbf {v} _ {t} \sim \mathcal {N} (0, \sigma_ {\mathbf {w}}), \\ \sigma_ {\mathbf {w}} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 0. 0 3 & \| \mathbf {z} _ {t} - \left[ \begin{array}{c} 0. 5 \\ 0. 5 \end{array} \right] \| _ {2} \geq 0. 3 \\ 1. 0 & \text { otherwise } \end{array} \right.. \\ \end{array}
$$

Here, ”collision” means the line segment that starts at $\mathbf { z } _ { t }$ and ends at $\mathbf { z } _ { t } + \tilde { \mathbf { u } } _ { t }$ intersects one of the obstacles. In this case we take a small step in the opposite direction by normalising $\tilde { \mathbf { u } } _ { t }$ to have unit length and scaling it up to 0.01. The additive constant 0.0001 is to avoid a division by zero.

State estimator. We use a bootstrap particle filter. The proposal distribution is a Gaussian. Its mean is given by the transition function’s prediction and its scale is the same as the transition noise: 0.03. We use 512 particles for estimating the initial state and 128 particles after that.
