2) MultiCast: We consider a two-agent multi-access broadcast system model inspired by [10] and [20]. The model is parameterized by $( C ^ { 1 } , \bar { C } ^ { 2 } , p ^ { 1 } , \bar { p ^ { 2 } } , \beta )$ . Each agent i has a buffer with size $C ^ { i } .$ . Initially, the buffers are empty. At each time t, a packet arrives at agent i’s buffer with probability $p ^ { i } .$ , independent of all history and the packet arrival event of the other agent. If the buffer is full, then the packet is dropped and the agents pay a penalty of $c _ { D } = 2 .$ . Otherwise, the packet is placed into the buffer. Both users may attempt to transmit a packet over a shared broadcast medium. If only one agent attempt to transmit, then the packet is successfully transmitted and removed from the buffer. If both agent attempt to transmit at the same time, then transmissions of both agents fail due to collision. An attempt to transmit, whether successful or not, costs $c _ { T } = 0 . 5 $ . In addition to the drop penalty and transmission cost, the agents pay a penalty of 1 for each unit of time each packet stays in the buffer. The discount factor for the penalties and costs is $\beta .$ . The agents know their own packet arrival histories but not the other agents. An agent can also observe the other agent’s action after it is taken.

It can be shown that [10], [11] in this model, the number of packets in the buffer for each agent i is a sufficient private information for decision making. Therefore, per Remark 1, MultiCast $( C ^ { 1 } , C ^ { 2 } , p ^ { 1 } , p ^ { 2 } , \beta )$ can be modeled with our multi-agent control model in Section II-A.1 as follows: $S ^ { i } ~ = ~ \{ 0 , 1 , \cdots , C ^ { i } \}$ is the set of private states for agent i indicating the number of packets in its buffer. $S = S ^ { 1 } \times S ^ { 2 }$ is the state space. $\mathcal { A } ^ { i } = \{ \mathrm { N T } , \mathrm { T } \}$ represent the two choices of agent i at any given time. $\mathcal { M } ^ { i } = \mathcal { S } ^ { i }$ is the space of sufficient private information. $\mathcal { O } = \mathcal { A }$ is the space of common observations. The instantaneous reward r is defined by

$$r (s, a) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {2} r ^ {i} (s ^ {i}, a ^ {i})r ^ {i} (s ^ {i}, a ^ {i}) = - s ^ {i} - c _ {D} \cdot p ^ {i} {\bf 1} _ {\{s ^ {i} = C ^ {i} \}} - c _ {T} \cdot {\bf 1} _ {\{a ^ {i} = T \}}$$

The rest of the tuple making up the model $\mathcal { E } \ ( \mathrm { i . e . } \ b _ { 0 } , \mathbb { P } )$ can be defined naturally.
