# Appendix G Numerical Results

Herein, we showcase the application of the developed theory for improving the estimation policy for an LTI system. Specifically, we consider an undamped mass-spring system with known parameters $( A , H )$ with $n = 2$ and $m = 1$ . In the hindsight, we consider a variance of 0.1 for each state dynamic noise, a state covariance of 0.05 and a variance of 0.1 for the observation noise. Assuming a trajectory of length T at every iteration, the approximate gradient is obtained as in Lemma 3, only requiring an output data sequence collected from the system in (1). Then, the progress of policy updates using the SGD algorithm for different values of trajectory length T and batch size M are depicted in Figure 1 where each figure shows average progress over 50 rounds of simulation. The figure demonstrates a linear convergence outside of a neighborhood of global optimum that depends on the bias term in the approximate gradient (due to truncated data trajectories). The rate then drops when the policy iterates enter into this neighborhood which is expected as every update only relies on a biased gradient—in contrast to the linear convergence established for deterministic GD (to the exact optimum) using the true gradient.

Specifically, recall that our convergence guarantee to a small neighborhood around the optimal value is due to the finite-length of the data trajectories. The region can be made arbitrary small by choosing larger trajectory length. In particular, to achieve ε error, we only require the length $T \geq O ( \mathrm { \bar { l n } } ( 1 / \varepsilon ) ) -$ see Theorem 3. Also, Fig 1(d) is illustrating that optimality gap at the final iteration (i.e. the radius of the small neighborhood around optimality) which is decaying linearly as a function of trajectory length $T \leq 5 0 -$ —until the variance error dominates beyond $\dot { T } \stackrel { - } { = } 5 0$ . It is clear that, increasing the batch size M will allow further decrease of this optimality gap beyond $T = 5 0$ .

The code for regenerating these results is available online at this GitHub repository [44].
