A dwell time approach to the stability of switched ¨ linear systems based on the distance between eigenvector sets.
Int.
J.
Syst.
Sci., 40(8):845–853, 2009.
[18] V Lakshmikantham, D D Bainov, and P S Simeonov.
Theory of impulsive differential equations, volume 6.
World Scientific, 1989.
[19] Zhengguo Li, Yengchai Soh, and Changyun Wen.
Switched and impulsive systems: Analysis, design and applications, volume 313.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2005.
[20] Daniel Liberzon.
Switching in systems and control.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2003.
[21] Kumpati S Narendra and Jeyendran Balakrishnan.
A common lyapunov function for stable lti systems with commuting a-matrices.
IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 39(12):2469–2471, 1994.
[22] Jonathan P Paxman and Glenn Vinnicombe.
Stability of reset switching systems.
In 2003 European Control Conference (ECC), pages 495–500.
IEEE, 2003.
[23] Swapnil Tripathi.
Stabilizing bimodal planar linear switched systems.
PhD thesis, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India, May 2022.
[24] Swapnil Tripathi and Nikita Agarwal.
Stability of bimodal planar switched linear systems with both stable and unstable subsystems.
Int.
J.
Syst.
Sci., 53(15):3254–3285, 2022.
[25] Swapnil Tripathi and Nikita Agarwal.
Stability of bimodal planar linear switched systems.
Eur.
J.
Control, 70:100767, 2023.
[26] Yijing Wang, Xiaomeng Shi, Zhiqiang Zuo, Michael ZQ Chen, and Yitian Shao.
On finite-time stability for nonlinear impulsive switched systems.
Nonlinear Anal.
Real World Appl., 14(1):807– 814, 2013.
[27] Xiaoqing Xiao, Ju H Park, and Lei Zhou.
Stabilization of switched linear singular systems with state reset.
J.
Franklin Inst., 356(1):237–247, 2019.
[28] Honglei Xu, Xinzhi Liu, and Kok Lay Teo.
A lmi approach to stability analysis and synthesis of impulsive switched systems with time delays.
Nonlinear Anal.
Hybrid Syst, 2(1):38–50, 2008.
[29] Yue Yang, Cheng Xiang, and Tong Heng Lee.
Sufficient and necessary conditions for the stability of second-order switched linear systems under arbitrary switching.
Int.
J.
Control, 85(12):1977–1995, 2012.
