[8] R.
L.
Hatton and H.
Choset, “Geometric swimming at low and high reynolds numbers,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
29, no.
3, pp.
615–624, 2013.
[9] J.
Dai, H.
Faraji, C.
Gong, R.
L.
Hatton, D.
I.
Goldman, and H.
Choset, “Geometric swimming on a granular surface.” in Robotics: Science and Systems, 2016, pp.
1–7.
[10] D.
Zhao, B.
Bittner, G.
Clifton, N.
Gravish, and S.
Revzen, “Walking is like slithering: A unifying, datadriven view of locomotion,” Proc.
of the Nat.
Acad.
of Sci., vol.
119, no.
37, p.
e2113222119, 2022.
[11] B.
Chong, Y.
O.
Aydin, C.
Gong, G.
Sartoretti, Y.
Wu, J.
M.
Rieser, H.
Xing, P.
E.
Schiebel, J.
W.
Rankin, K.
B.
Michel, et al., “Coordination of lateral body bending and leg movements for sprawled posture quadrupedal locomotion,” Int.
J.
of Robotics Research, vol.
40, no.
4-5, pp.
747–763, 2021.
[12] B.
Chong, J.
He, S.
Li, E.
Erickson, K.
Diaz, T.
Wang, D.
Soto, and D.
I.
Goldman, “Self-propulsion via slipping: Frictional swimming in multilegged locomotors,” Proc.
of the Nat.
Acad.
of Sci., vol.
120, no.
11, p.
e2213698120, 2023.
[13] B.
Chong, Y.
Ozkan Aydin, G.
Sartoretti, J.
M.
Rieser, C.
Gong, H.
Xing, H.
Choset, and D.
I.
Goldman, “A hierarchical geometric framework to design locomotive gaits for highly articulated robots,” in Robotics: science and systems, 2019.
[14] B.
Chong, Y.
O.
Aydin, J.
M.
Rieser, G.
Sartoretti, T.
Wang, J.
Whitman, A.
Kaba, E.
Aydin, C.
McFarland, K.
D.
Cruz, et al., “A general locomotion control framework for multi-legged locomotors,” Bioinspiration & Biomimetics, vol.
17, no.
4, p.
046015, 2022.
[15] B.
Chong, T.
Wang, B.
Lin, S.
Li, H.
Choset, G.
Blekherman, and D.
Goldman, “Moving sidewinding forward: optimizing contact patterns for limbless robots via geometric mechanics,” in Robotics: science and systems, vol.
17, 2021.
[16] B.
Chong, T.
Wang, L.
Bo, S.
Li, P.
C.
Muthukrishnan, J.
He, D.
Irvine, H.
Choset, G.
Blekherman, and D.
I.
Goldman, “Optimizing contact patterns for robot locomotion via geometric mechanics,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, p.
02783649231188387, 2023.
[17] R.
L.
Hatton, Z.
Brock, S.
Chen, H.
Choset, H.
Faraji, R.
Fu, N.
Justus, and S.
Ramasamy, “The geometry of optimal gaits for inertia-dominated kinematic systems,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
38, no.
5, pp.
3279– 3299, 2022.
[18] B.
Goodwine and J.
