[21] L.
Rosier, “Homogeneous lyapunov function for homogeneous continuous vector field,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
19, no.
6, pp.
467–473, 1992.
[22] B.-Z.
Guo and Z.-l.
Zhao, “On the convergence of an extended state observer for nonlinear systems with uncertainty,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
60, no.
6, pp.
420–430, 2011.
[23] J.
A.
Moreno and M.
Osorio, “Strict lyapunov functions for the supertwisting algorithm,” IEEE transactions on automatic control, vol.
57, no.
4, pp.
1035–1040, 2012.
[24] Y.
Xia, Z.
Zhu, M.
Fu, and S.
Wang, “Attitude tracking of rigid spacecraft with bounded disturbances,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol.
58, no.
2, pp.
647–659, 2010.
[25] S.
P.
Bhat and D.
S.
Bernstein, “A topological obstruction to continuous global stabilization of rotational motion and the unwinding phenomenon,” Systems & control letters, vol.
39, no.
1, pp.
63–70, 2000.
[26] N.
A.
Chaturvedi, A.
K.
Sanyal, and N.
H.
McClamroch, “Rigid-body attitude control,” IEEE control systems magazine, vol.
31, no.
3, pp.
30–51, 2011.
[27] S.
P.
Viswanathan, A.
K.
Sanyal, and E.
Samiei, “Integrated guidance and feedback control of underactuated robotics system in se (3),” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
89, no.
1, pp.
251–263, 2018.
[28] L.
Liu, D.
Wang, and Z.
Peng, “State recovery and disturbance estimation of unmanned surface vehicles based on nonlinear extended state observers,” Ocean Engineering, vol.
171, pp.
625–632, 2019.
[29] N.
Wang and A.
K.
Sanyal, “A holder-continuous extended state observer ¨ for model-free position tracking control,” in 2021 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
2133–2138.
[30] ——, “A holder-continuous extended state observer for rigid body¨ attitude dynamics,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
55, no.
22, pp.
340–345, 2022.
[31] P.
V.
Vidal, E.
V.
Nunes, and L.
Hsu, “Output-feedback multivariable global variable gain super-twisting algorithm,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
62, no.
6, pp.
2999–3005, 2016.
[32] A.
K.
Sanyal and J.
Bohn, “Finite-time stabilisation of simple mechanical systems using continuous feedback,” International Journal of Control, vol.
88, no.
4, pp.
783–791, 2015.
[33] N.
Nordkvist and A.
K.
Sanyal, “A lie group variational integrator for rigid body motion in se (3) with applications to underwater vehicle dynamics.” 49th IEEE conference on decision and control (CDC), 2010, pp.
