Burdick, “Motion planning for kinematic stratified systems with application to quasistatic legged locomotion and finger gaiting,” IEEE Trans.
on Rob.
& Automation, vol.
18, no.
2, pp.
209–222, 2002.
[19] S.
D.
De Rivaz, B.
Goldberg, N.
Doshi, K.
Jayaram, J.
Zhou, and R.
J.
Wood, “Inverted and vertical climbing of a quadrupedal microrobot using electroadhesion,” Science Robotics, vol.
3, no.
25, p.
eaau3038, 2018.
[20] A.
Ruina, “Nonholonomic stability aspects of piecewise holonomic systems,” Reports on mathematical physics, vol.
42, no.
1-2, pp.
91–100, 1998.

[21] R.
J.
Full and D.
E.
Koditschek, “Templates and anchors: neuromechanical hypotheses of legged locomotion on land,” Journal of experimental biology, vol.
202, no.
23, pp.
3325–3332, 1999.
[22] R.
L.
Hatton, T.
Dear, and H.
Choset, “Kinematic cartography and the efficiency of viscous swimming,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
33, no.
3, pp.
523–535, 2017.
[23] R.
L.
Hatton, Y.
Ding, H.
Choset, and D.
I.
Goldman, “Geometric visualization of self-propulsion in a complex medium,” Physical review letters, vol.
110, no.
7, p.
078101, 2013.
[24] J.
Gray and G.
Hancock, “The propulsion of sea-urchin spermatozoa,” Journal of Experimental Biology, vol.
32, no.
4, pp.
802–814, 1955.
[25] D.
Zhao, “Locomotion of low-dof multi-legged robots,” Ph.D.
dissertation, Ph.
D.
dissertation, University of Michigan, 2021.
[26] Z.
Wu, D.
Zhao, and S.
Revzen, “Coulomb friction crawling model yields linear force–velocity profile,” Journal of Applied Mechanics, vol.
86, no.
5, p.
054501, 2019.
[27] T.
Zhang and D.
I.
Goldman, “The effectiveness of resistive force theory in granular locomotion,” Physics of Fluids, vol.
26, no.
10, 2014.
[28] S.
Ramasamy and R.
L.
Hatton, “The geometry of optimal gaits for drag-dominated kinematic systems,” IEEE Trans.
on Robotics, vol.
35, no.
4, pp.
1014–1033, 2019.
[29] R.
L.
Hatton and H.
Choset, “Geometric motion planning: The local connection, stokes’ theorem, and the importance of coordinate choice,” Int.
J.
of Robotics Research, vol.
30, no.
8, pp.
988–1014, 2011.
[30] J.
Lee, J.
Hwangbo, L.
Wellhausen, V.
Koltun, and M.
Hutter, “Learning quadrupedal locomotion over challenging terrain,” Science robotics, vol.
5, no.
47, p.
eabc5986, 2020.
[31] K.
Jayaram, J.
Shum, S.
Castellanos, E.
F.
Helbling, and R.
J.
Wood, “Scaling down an insect-size microrobot, hamr-vi into hamr-jr,” in 2020 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
10 305–10 311.
[32] N.
Doshi, K.
Jayaram, S.
Castellanos, S.
Kuindersma, and R.
J.
Wood, “Effective locomotion at multiple stride frequencies using proprioceptive feedback on a legged microrobot,” Bioinspiration & biomimetics, vol.
14, no.
5, p.
056001, 2019.
[33] S.
Choi, G.
Ji, J.
Park, H.
Kim, J.
Mun, J.
H.
Lee, and J.
Hwangbo, “Learning quadrupedal locomotion on deformable terrain,” Science Robotics, vol.
8, no.
74, p.
eade2256, 2023.
[34] K.
Jayaram, N.
T.
Jafferis, N.
Doshi, B.
Goldberg, and R.
J.

Wood, “Concomitant sensing and actuation for piezoelectric microrobots,” Smart Materials and Structures, vol.
27, no.
6, p.
065028, 2018.
[35] H.
Kabutz and K.
Jayaram, “Design of clari: A miniature modular origami passive shape-morphing robot,” Advanced Intelligent Systems, vol.
n/a, no.
n/a, p.
2300181, 2023.
[Online].
Available: https://onlinelibrary.
wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/aisy.202300181
