# References

[1] S.
Al-Areqi, D.
G ¨orges, and S.
Liu, Event-based control and scheduling codesign: stochastic and robust approaches, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 60 (2015), pp.
1291–1303.
[2] S.-L.
Dai, H.
Lin, and S.
S.
Ge, Scheduling-and-control codesign for a collection of networked control systems with uncertain delays, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 18 (2010), pp.
66–78.
[3] K.
Gatsis, A.
Ribeiro, and G.
Pappas, Control-aware random access communication.
Proceedings of the 7th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS), 2016, Vienna, Austria, pp.
1-9.
[4] J.
P.
Hespanha, P.
Naghshtabrizi, and Y.
Xu, A survey of recent results in networked control systems, Proc.
of IEEE Special Issue on Technology of Networked Control Systems, 95 (2007), pp.
138–162.
[5] D.
Hristu-Varsakelis, Feedback control systems as users of a shared network: Communication sequences that guarantee stability.
Proceedings of the 40th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2001, Orlando, Florida, USA, pp.
3631-3636.
[6] A.
Kundu and D.
E.
Quevedo, Stabilizing scheduling policies for networked control systems, IEEE Trans.
Control Netw.
Syst., 7 (2020), pp.
163–175.
[7] , On periodic scheduling and control for networked systems under random data loss, IEEE Trans.
Control Netw.
Syst., 8 (2021), pp.
1788–1798.
[8] H.
Lin, G.
Zhai, L.
Fang, and P.
J.
Antsaklis, Stability and hinf performance preserving scheduling policy for networked control systems.
Proc.
of the 16th IFAC World Congress, 2005, Prague, Czech Republic.
[9] M.
Ljeˇsnjanin, D.
E.
Quevedo, and D.
Neˇsi ´c, Packetized MPC with dynamic scheduling constraints and bounded packet dropouts, Automatica J.
IFAC, 50 (2014), pp.
784–797.
[10] Y.
Ma, J.
Guo, Y.
Wang, A.
Chakrabarty, H.
Ahn, P.
Orlik, and C.
Lu, Optimal dynamic scheduling of wireless networked control systems.
Proceedings of the 10th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, 2019, Montreal, Canada, pp.
77-86.
[11] P.
K.
Mishra, D.
Chatterjee, and D.
E.
Quevedo, Stabilizing stochastic predictive control under Bernoulli dropouts, IEEE Trans.
Automat.
Control, 63 (2018), pp.
1489–1500.
[12] H.
Rehbinder and M.
Sanfridson, Scheduling of a limited communication channel for optimal control, Automatica, 40 (2004), pp.
491—- 500.
[13] M.
Singh and A.

Kundu, A scheduling algorithm for networked control systems, IFAC-PapersOnLine, 55 (2022), pp.
37–42.
9th IFAC Conference on Networked Systems NECSYS 2022.
[14] G.
C.
Walsh, H.
Ye, and L.
G.
Bushness, Stability analysis of networked control systems, IEEE Trans.
Control Syst.
Tech., 10 (2002), pp.
438–446.
