Xie, “Observer-based fixedtime continuous nonsingular terminal sliding mode control of quadrotor aircraft under uncertainties and disturbances for robust trajectory tracking: Theory and experiment,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
111, p.
104806, 2021.
[14] X.
Wang, S.
Sun, E.-J.
van Kampen, and Q.
Chu, “Quadrotor fault tolerant incremental sliding mode control driven by sliding mode disturbance observers,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
87, pp.
417–430, 2019.
[15] J.
Jia, K.
Guo, X.
Yu, W.
Zhao, and L.
Guo, “Accurate high-maneuvering trajectory tracking for quadrotors: A drag utilization method,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
7, no.
3, pp.
6966–6973, 2022.
[16] M.
Faessler, A.
Franchi, and D.
Scaramuzza, “Differential flatness of quadrotor dynamics subject to rotor drag for accurate tracking of highspeed trajectories,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
3, no.
2, pp.
620–626, 2017.
[17] A.
Moeini, A.
F.
Lynch, and Q.
Zhao, “Exponentially stable motion control for multirotor uavs with rotor drag and disturbance compensation,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
103, no.
1, pp.
1–17, 2021.
[18] L.
Cui, R.
Zhang, H.
Yang, and Z.
Zuo, “Adaptive super-twisting trajectory tracking control for an unmanned aerial vehicle under gust winds,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
115, p.
106833, 2021.
[19] P.
Bhale, M.
Kumar, and A.
K.
Sanyal, “Finite-time stable disturbance observer for unmanned aerial vehicles.” 2022 American Control Conference (ACC), 2022, pp.
5010–5015.
[20] A.
Sanyal, “Discrete-time data-driven control with holder-continuous ¨ real-time learning,” International Journal of Control, vol.
95, no.
8, pp.
2175–2187, 2022.
