# VIII. CONCLUSION

In this article, a feedback tracking geometric control scheme using a FFTS-ESO for disturbance rejection is designed for rotorcraft UAV that have a body-fixed thrust direction and three-axis attitude control. The resulting FFTS-ADRC scheme enables such rotorcraft UAV to perform large maneuvers in the presence of aerodynamic uncertainties. The UAV is modeled as an underactuated system on the tangent bundle of the sixdimensional Lie group of rigid body motions, SE(3). The proposed ESO scheme is developed based on the HC-FFTSD, which is similar to the STA used in sliding mode designs, to obtain fast finite-time stability with higher tunability of the settling time compared to other FTS schemes. The ADRC scheme on SE(3), which utilizes the estimated disturbances from the ESO, is then incorporated to achieve FFTS tracking errors under constant disturbances and ultimate boundedness of tracking errors for time-varying disturbances. The Lyapunov stability analysis presented in this article for both ESO scheme and tracking control scheme proves the finite-time stability and robustness of the overall ADRC on SE(3). Two sets of numerical simulations are conducted. The first set of numerical simulation results present the stable performance of the FFTS-ESO scheme in estimating external force and torque disturbances acting on the UAV in different scenarios. The behavior of the FFTS-ESO is compared with two state-of-theart observers for disturbance estimation. Using a realistic set of data for several simulated flight scenarios of a rotorcraft UAV, numerical simulations show that the FFTS-ESO, unlike the LESO and FxTSDO, is always stable and its convergence is robust to measurement noise and pose singularities. The proposed FFTS-ADRC scheme is numerically implemented by a geometric integrator for a rotorcraft UAV model and numerical simulations are carried out to validate the developed FFTS-ESO and FFTS-ADRC schemes. The numerical results also demonstrate the stable performance of the FFTS-ADRC when the UAV carries out large maneuvers that lead to kinematic singularities in Euler angle attitude representation.
