# REFERENCES

[1] G.
Torrente, E.
Kaufmann, P.
Fohn, and D.
Scaramuzza, “Data-driven ¨ mpc for quadrotors,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
6, no.
2, pp.
3769–3776, 2021.
[2] D.
Hanover, P.
Foehn, S.
Sun, E.
Kaufmann, and D.
Scaramuzza, “Performance, precision, and payloads: Adaptive nonlinear mpc for quadrotors,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
7, no.
2, pp.
690–697, 2021.
[3] M.
Bangura and R.
Mahony, “Thrust control for multirotor aerial vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
33, no.
2, pp.
390–405, 2017.
[4] W.
Craig, D.
Yeo, and D.
A.
Paley, “Geometric attitude and position control of a quadrotor in wind,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, pp.
1–14, 2020.
[5] M.
Bisheban and T.
Lee, “Geometric adaptive control with neural networks for a quadrotor in wind fields,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
29, no.
4, pp.
1533–1548, 2020.
[6] T.
Lee, M.
Leok, and N.
H.
McClamroch, “Geometric tracking control of a quadrotor uav on se (3).” 49th IEEE conference on decision and control (CDC), 2010, pp.
5420–5425.
[7] R.
J.
Hartlieb, “The cancellation of random disturbances in automatic control systems,” PhDT, 1956.
[8] Y.
Huang, K.
Xu, J.
Han, and J.
Lam, “Flight control design using extended state observer and non-smooth feedback,” vol.
1.
Proceedings of the 40th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (Cat.
No.
01CH37228), 2001, pp.
223–228.
[9] W.-H.
Chen, “Nonlinear disturbance observer-enhanced dynamic inversion control of missiles,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
26, no.
1, pp.
161–166, 2003.
[10] G.
Basile and G.
Marro, “On the observability of linear, time-invariant systems with unknown inputs,” Journal of Optimization theory and applications, vol.
3, pp.
410–415, 1969.
[11] X.
Shao, J.
Liu, H.
Cao, C.
Shen, and H.
Wang, “Robust dynamic surface trajectory tracking control for a quadrotor UAV via extended state observer,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
28, no.
7, pp.
2700–2719, 2018.
[12] K.
Liu, R.
Wang, S.
Zheng, S.
Dong, and G.
Sun, “Fixed-time disturbance observer-based robust fault-tolerant tracking control for uncertain quadrotor uav subject to input delay,” Nonlinear Dynamics, vol.
107, no.
3, pp.
2363–2390, 2022.
[13] O.
Mechali, L.
Xu, Y.
Huang, M.
Shi, and X.
