in $( \alpha _ { i } , \beta _ { i } )$ , for any $i \in \mathbb { Y } ;$ ; that is, $\mu$ solves the equation (4.10) pointwise.

(3) Furthermore, using the latter equation, we deduce that $I _ { s } ^ { i } ( \mu , \phi ) = 0$ for any $\phi \in \mathcal V$ . Therefore, by choosing $\phi \in \mathcal V$ such that $\begin{array} { r } { \phi _ { x } ( l _ { j } , i ) = \phi _ { x x } ( l _ { j } , i ) = 0 } \end{array}$ for any $j , i \in \mathbb { Y }$ , from (C.4) and (C.6) we obtain $\Sigma ^ { i } ( \mu , \phi ) = 0$ . Since the values of $\phi ( \beta _ { i } , i )$ are arbitrary, this in turn implies that

$$\sum_ {j \in \mathbb {Y}} q _ {j i} \mu (\beta_ {j}, j) = 0, \quad i \in \mathbb {Y}.$$

Such a system of equations corresponds to the eigenvector problem with zero eigenvalue of the matrix Q and its solution is given by the stationary distribution of Y . Hence, we have $\mu ( \beta _ { i } , i ) = p ( i )$ for any $i \in \mathbb { Y } .$ , proving that the boundary conditions of (4.10) are met.

(4) Finally, using $I _ { s } ^ { i } ( \mu , \phi ) = \Sigma ^ { i } ( \mu , \phi ) = 0$ in (C.4), we have

$$
\sum_{i\in \mathbb{Y}}\sum_{\substack{j = k:\\ l_{k} = \alpha_{i},\\ l_{m} = \beta_{i}}}^{m}\frac{1}{2}\sigma^{2}(l_{j},i)\Delta \mu_{x}(l_{j},i)\phi_{x}(l_{j},i) = 0,\quad \text{for any $\phi \in \mathcal{V}$},
$$

from which we deduce (thanks also to (C.5)) that $\mu \in C ^ { 1 } ( \mathcal { I } ; \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ .

Concluding, $\mu ( \cdot , i ) \in C ^ { 1 } ( [ \alpha _ { i } , \beta _ { i } ] ) \cap C ^ { 2 } ( ( \alpha _ { i } , \beta _ { i } ) \backslash \bigcup _ { j \in \mathbb { Y } } \{ \alpha _ { j } , \beta _ { j } \} )$ is a classical solution to the boundary value problem in (4.10).

Step 3. Now we prove that (4.10) admits a unique solution. Assume that (4.10) has two solutions, denoted by $\mu _ { 1 } = ( \mu _ { 1 } ( \cdot , i ) ) _ { i \in \mathbb { Y } }$ and $\mu _ { 2 } = ( \mu _ { 2 } ( \cdot , i ) ) _ { i \in \mathbb { Y } }$ , then the difference $\tilde { \mu } : = \mu _ { 2 } - \mu _ { 1 } = ( \mu _ { 2 } ( \cdot , i ) -$ $\mu _ { 1 } ( \cdot , i ) ) _ { i \in \mathbb { Y } }$ solves (4.10) with $\tilde { \mu } ( x , i ) = 0$ for $x \in \{ \alpha _ { i } , \beta _ { i } \}$ . Therefore, by Theorem 1 in [50], we obtain that

$$0 \leq \sup _ {(\alpha_ {i}, \beta_ {i})} | \tilde {\mu} (x, i) | \leq C \max _ {\{\alpha_ {i}, \beta_ {i} \}} | \tilde {\mu} (x, i) | = 0, \tag {C.7}$$

which in turn implies that, for any fixed $i \ \in \ \mathbb { Y } , \ \mu _ { 2 } ( x , i ) \ = \ \mu _ { 1 } ( x , i ) , \ x \ \in \ [ \alpha _ { i } , \beta _ { i } ]$ . Hence, by Proposition 4.2 the unique stationary distribution ν admits a cumulative function $\mu$ which coincides with the unique solution to (4.10).

Acknowledgements. Funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) – Project-ID 317210226 – SFB 1283. We thank the anonymous Associate Editor and Referees for constructive comments.
