# D. Numerical Results

The results over apriori known true currents (HC-HC) and realistic scenario (FC-HC) are presented in Table II. Both mt-HJR-LISIC and mt-HJR-RC exhibit superior performance in terms of connectivity and collision metrics compared to the baseline mt-HJR-B. Thus, we conduct statistical testing to compare mt-HJR-RC and mt-HJR-LISIC. Regarding the disconnection and collision rate, we perform a one-sided two-sample z proportion test for mt-HJR-LISIC against mt-HJR-RC.

Let Γ be the rate collision or disconnection over M with the null hypothesis H0 : Γmt-HJR-LISIC = Γmt-HJR-RC to reject in favor of the alternative hypothesis $H _ { A } : \Gamma _ { \mathrm { m t - H J R - L I S I C } } <$ $\Gamma _ { \mathrm { m t - H J R - R C } }$ . mt-HJR-LISIC is statistically significantly better than mt-HJR-RC at avoiding disconnections in both (HC-HC) and (FC-HC) scenarios, with p-values of $p = 6 . 3 e ^ { - 6 9 }$ and $p = 1 . 7 e ^ { - 1 1 4 }$ , respectively. However, it is not significantly better than mt-HJR-RC at avoiding collisions. We also perform a Welch’s t-test due to the unequal variances of mt-HJR-RC and mt-HJR-LISIC to test (1) connectivity using the means over |M| of the Isolated Platform Metric, i.e., $\mu ( \mathrm { I P M } )$ and the minimum Fiedler value recorded over time, i.e., $\mu ( \lambda _ { 2 } ^ { m i n } )$ , (2) performance trade-off with $\mu \left( d _ { m i n } \left( \mathcal { T } \right) \right)$ . For both (HC-HC) and (FC-HC) scenarios, mt-HJR-LISIC leads to statistically significantly better results for the network connectivity with $\textit { p } < \ 1 e ^ { - 3 0 }$ for $\mu ( \mathrm { I P M } )$ and $\mu ( \lambda _ { 2 } ^ { m i n } )$ while mt-HJR-RC displays a better objective trade-off $\mu \left( d _ { m i n } \left( \mathcal { T } \right) \right)$ with p-values $p < 1 e ^ { - 4 0 }$ . Moreover, we plot the IPM and $\mu ( \lambda _ { 2 } ^ { m i n } )$ , evaluated on the full set of missions |M| for the three controllers in Fig. 4. Among the three evaluated controllers, mt-HJR-LISIC has the lowest IPM. Because of its higher value of $\mu ( \lambda _ { 2 } ^ { m i n } )$ (see Fig. 4, right), mt-HJR-LISIC is more robust against disconnections, and should be the preferred control choice when communication maintenance is prioritized. Finally, Fig. 5 illustrates a navigation mission, comparing a naive multiagent approach (mt-HJR-B) to our safe interaction controller, mt-HJR-LISIC. Note that despite the initial strong currents pushing the ASVs away from the desired goal in Fig. 5, the currents eventually shift favorably, allowing the underactuated ASVs to reach the target. The mt-HJR framework leverages this information through current forecasts to plan intelligently.
