# 5.3 Non-linear Inverted Pendulum

We now consider the inverted pendulum proposed in [29] with dynamics given by

$$\ddot {\theta} (t) = \frac {m g l \sin (\theta (t)) - \mu \dot {\theta} (t) + \mathrm{sat} (u (t))}{m l ^ {2}}.$$

As shown in [33], we can rewrite the dynamics as a four dimensional polynomial system. We let $z _ { 1 } = \theta , z _ { 2 } = { \dot { \theta } }$ and by making the substitution $z _ { 3 } = \sin ( z _ { 1 } ) , z _ { 4 } = \cos ( z _ { 1 } )$ the system can be written as

$$\dot {z} _ {1} = z _ {2},\dot {z} _ {2} = \frac {g}{l} z _ {3} - \frac {\mu}{m l ^ {2}} z _ {2} + \frac {1}{m l ^ {2}} u,\dot {z} _ {3} = z _ {2} z _ {4},\dot {z} _ {4} = - z _ {2} z _ {3},$$

where m = 0.15 kg, $l = 0 . 5 \mathrm { m } , \mu = 0 . 5 \mathrm { N m s r a d } ^ { - 1 } , g = 9 . 8 1 \mathrm { m s } ^ { - 2 }$ and the controller input is saturated such that $- 1 \leq u \leq 1$ . The system also requires the equality constraint

$$z _ {3} ^ {2} + z _ {4} ^ {2} - 1 = 0,$$

to be enforced. We do not define any region of the state space and instead consider global stability. We include the additional robustness constraints on the length of the pendulum to be ±0.1 its original length and additive white noise w on the angular velocity such that $| | w | | _ { \infty } \bar { \leq } 0 . 1$ . By making the substitution $\delta = \bar { 1 } / l$ the full dynamical system can be written as

$$\dot {z} _ {1} = z _ {2},\dot {z} _ {2} = g \delta z _ {3} - \frac {\mu \delta^ {2}}{m} z _ {2} + \frac {\delta^ {2}}{m} u + w,\dot {z} _ {3} = z _ {2} z _ {4},\dot {z} _ {4} = - z _ {2} z _ {3},0 = z _ {3} ^ {2} + z _ {4} ^ {2} - 1,0 \leq 1 ^ {2} - u ^ {2},0 \leq 0. 1 ^ {2} - w ^ {2},0 \leq (1 / 0. 4 - \delta) (\delta - 1 / 0. 6).$$

The Lyapunov function must be carefully constructed due to the $z _ { 4 }$ state being equal to one at the origin. We therefore define the Lyapunov function to be the sum of two Lyapunov functions, the first of which is defined as

$$V _ {1} (z _ {3}, z _ {4}) = a _ {1} z _ {3} ^ {2} + a _ {2} z _ {4} ^ {2} + a _ {3} z _ {4} + a _ {4}$$

and the second is quadratic in $z _ { 1 }$ and $z _ { 2 }$ . To ensure that the Lyapunov function is zero at the origin we must enforce

$$a _ {2} + a _ {3} + a _ {4} = 0.$$

To ensure that the Lyapunov function is positive definite, we define

$$\rho (z) = \epsilon_ {1} z _ {1} ^ {2} + \epsilon_ {2} z _ {2} ^ {2} + \epsilon_ {3} (1 - z _ {4}),$$

where $\epsilon _ { 1 } \geq 0 . 1 , \epsilon _ { 2 } \geq 0 . 1 , \epsilon _ { 3 } \geq 0 . 1$ .

The size of the rational NN controller is a two layer network with four nodes in each layer. By setting the size of the polynomials in the network to be between zeroth and fourth order, we are able to recover a controller. The trajectories for this NFL are shown in Figure 12. We can see that the controller initially drives the system states towards a manifold and then moves it towards the equilibrium. Since the control system is discontinuous at the manifold, further analysis is required to show stability of the system.
