[17] T.
Nishio, M.
Zhao, F.
Shi, T.
Anzai, K.
Kawaharazuka, K.
Okada, and M.
Inaba, “Stable control in climbing and descending flight under upper walls using ceiling effect model based on aerodynamics,” in 2020 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
172–178.
[18] D.
J.
Carter, L.
Bouchard, and D.
B.
Quinn, “Influence of the ground, ceiling, and sidewall on micro-quadrotors,” AIAA Journal, vol.
59, no.
4, pp.
1398–1405, 2021.
[19] P.
J.
Sanchez-Cuevas, G.
Heredia, and A.
Ollero, “Multirotor uas for bridge inspection by contact using the ceiling effect,” in 2017 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
767–774.
[20] A.
E.
Jimenez-Cano, P.
J.
Sanchez-Cuevas, P.
Grau, A.
Ollero, and G.
Heredia, “Contact-based bridge inspection multirotors: Design, modeling, and control considering the ceiling effect,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
4, no.
4, pp.
3561–3568, 2019.
[21] M.
Maier, “Bidirectional thrust for multirotor mavs with fixed-pitch propellers,” in 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2018, pp.
1–8.
[22] W.
Jothiraj, C.
Miles, E.
Bulka, I.
Sharf, and M.
Nahon, “Enabling bidirectional thrust for aggressive and inverted quadrotor flight,” in 2019 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
534–541.
[23] J.
Bass and A.
L.
Desbiens, “Improving multirotor landing performance on inclined surfaces using reverse thrust,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
5, no.
4, pp.
5850–5857, 2020.
[24] W.
Jothiraj, I.
Sharf, and M.
Nahon, “Control allocation of bidirectional thrust quadrotor subject to actuator constraints,” in 2020 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
932–938.
[25] P.
Yu, G.
Chamitoff, and K.
Wong, “Perching upside down with bidirectional thrust quadrotor,” in 2020 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
1697–1703.
[26] Z.
Zhang, P.
Xie, and O.
Ma, “Bio-inspired trajectory generation for uav perching,” in 2013 IEEE/ASME International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics.
IEEE, 2013, pp.
997–1002.
[27] M.
Cutler and J.
How, “Actuator constrained trajectory generation and control for variable-pitch quadrotors,” in AIAA Guidance, Navigation, and Control Conference, 2012, p.
4777.
[28] T.

Ai, W.
Fan, B.
Xu, C.
Xiang, Y.
Zhang, and Z.
Zhao, “Aerodynamic analysis and modeling of coaxial ducted fan aircraft with the ceiling effect,” Engineering Applications of Computational Fluid Mechanics, vol.
15, no.
1, pp.
1563–1584, 2021.
[29] Y.
Li, K.
Yonezawa, and H.
Liu, “Effect of ducted multi-propeller configuration on aerodynamic performance in quadrotor drone,” Drones, vol.
5, no.
3, p.
101, 2021.
[30] Z.
Wang, X.
Zhou, C.
Xu, and F.
Gao, “Geometrically constrained trajectory optimization for multicopters,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
38, no.
5, pp.
3259–3278, 2022.
