# References

[1] Cha Zhang and Yunqian Ma. Ensemble machine learning: methods and applications. Springer, 2012.   
[2] Christopher M Bishop and Nasser M Nasrabadi. Pattern recognition and machine learning. Vol. 4. 4. Springer, 2006.   
[3] Bogdan Bochenek and Zbigniew Ustrnul. “Machine learning in weather prediction and climate analysesapplications and perspectives”. In: Atmosphere 13.2 (2022), p. 180.   
[4] Tom B Brown et al. “Language models are few-shot learners”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.14165 (2020).   
[5] Sampo Kuutti et al. “A survey of deep learning applications to autonomous vehicle control”. In: IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 22.2 (2020), pp. 712–733.   
[6] Muhammad Imran Razzak, Saeeda Naz, and Ahmad Zaib. “Deep learning for medical image processing: Overview, challenges and the future”. In: Classification in BioApps: Automation of Decision Making (2018), pp. 323–350.   
[7] TK Balaji, Chandra Sekhara Rao Annavarapu, and Annushree Bablani. “Machine learning algorithms for social media analysis: A survey”. In: Computer Science Review 40 (2021), p. 100395.   
[8] Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E Hinton. “Imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks”. In: Advances in neural information processing systems 25 (2012), pp. 1097–1105.   
[9] Kaiming He et al. “Deep residual learning for image recognition”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. 2016, pp. 770–778.
