# REFERENCES

[1] Achdou, Y., Buera, F. J., Lasry, J.-M., Lions, P.-L., and Moll, B. (2014). Partial differential equation models in macroeconomics. Philos. Trans. Royal Soc. A Math., Physical and Eng. Sci., 372(2028).   
[2] Adlakha, S., Johari, R., and Weintraub, G. Y. (2015). Equilibria of dynamic games with many players: Existence, approximation, and market structure. J. Econom. Theory, 156:269–316.   
[3] A¨ıd, R., Basei, M., and Ferrari, G. (2023). A stationary mean-field equilibrium model of irreversible investment in a two-regime economy. arXiv: 2305.00541.   
[4] Aliprantis, C., Border, K., and Border, K. (1999). Infinite dimensional analysis: A hitchhiker’s guide. Springer.   
[5] Alvarez E., L. H. and Hening, A. (2022). Optimal sustainable harvesting of populations in random environments. Stochastic Process. Appl., 150:678–698.   
[6] Arapostathis, A., Borkar, V. S., and Ghosh, M. K. ((2011)). Ergodic control of diffusion processes. Cambridge University Press.   
[7] Bardi, M. and Feleqi, E. (2016). Nonlinear elliptic systems and mean-field games. NoDEA Nonlinear Differential Equations Appl., 23:1–32.   
[8] Bayraktar, E., Cecchin, A., and Chakraborty, P. (2023). Mean field control and finite agent approximation for regime-switching jump diffusions. Appl. Math. Optim., 88(2).   
[9] Bensoussan, A., Djehiche, B., Tembine, H., and Yam, S. C. P. (2020). Mean-field-type games with jump and regime switching. Dyn. Games Appl., 10:19–57.   
[10] Bertucci, C. (2018). Optimal stopping in mean field games, an obstacle problem approach. J. Math. Pures Appl., 120:165–194.   
[11] Bj ¨ork, T. (1980). Finite dimensional optimal filters for a class of lt ˆo- processes with jumping parameters. Stochastics, 4(2):167–183.   
[12] Burdzy, K., Kang, W., and Ramanan, K. (2009). The Skorokhod problem in a time-dependent interval. Stochastic Process. Appl., 119(2):428–452.   
[13] Caines, P. E., Huang, M., and Malham´e, R. P. (2006). Large population stochastic dynamic games: Closed-loop McKean-Vlasov systems and the Nash certainty equivalence principle. Commun. Inf. Syst., 6:221–252.
