[4] C.
E.
Doyle, J.
J.
Bird, T.
A.
Isom, C.
J.
Johnson, J.
C.
Kallman, J.
A.
Simpson, R.
J.
King, J.
J.
Abbott, and M.
A.
Minor, “Avianinspired passive perching mechanism for robotic rotorcraft,” in 2011 IEEE/RSJ international conference on intelligent robots and systems.
IEEE, 2011, pp.
4975–4980.
[5] C.
E.
Doyle, J.
J.
Bird, T.
A.
Isom, J.
C.
Kallman, D.
F.
Bareiss, D.
J.
Dunlop, R.
J.
King, J.
J.
Abbott, and M.
A.
Minor, “An avian-inspired passive mechanism for quadrotor perching,” IEEE/ASME Transactions On Mechatronics, vol.
18, no.
2, pp.
506–517, 2012.
[6] M.
L.
Burroughs, K.
Beauwen Freckleton, J.
J.
Abbott, and M.
A.
Minor, “A sarrus-based passive mechanism for rotorcraft perching,” Journal of Mechanisms and Robotics, vol.
8, no.
1, 2016.
[7] W.
R.
Roderick, M.
R.
Cutkosky, and D.
Lentink, “Bird-inspired dynamic grasping and perching in arboreal environments,” Science Robotics, vol.
6, no.
61, p.
eabj7562, 2021.
[8] P.
Zheng, F.
Xiao, P.
H.
Nguyen, A.
Farinha, and M.
Kovac, “Metamorphic aerial robot capable of mid-air shape morphing for rapid perching,” Scientific Reports, vol.
13, no.
1, p.
1297, 2023.
[9] M.
Anderson, “The sticky-pad plane and other innovative concepts for perching uavs,” in 47th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting Including The New Horizons Forum and Aerospace Exposition, 2009, p.
40.
[10] L.
Daler, A.
Klaptocz, A.
Briod, M.
Sitti, and D.
Floreano, “A perching mechanism for flying robots using a fibre-based adhesive,” in 2013 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation.
IEEE, 2013, pp.
4433–4438.
[11] E.
W.
Hawkes, D.
L.
Christensen, E.
V.
Eason, M.
A.
Estrada, M.
Heverly, E.
Hilgemann, H.
Jiang, M.
T.
Pope, A.
Parness, and M.
R.
Cutkosky, “Dynamic surface grasping with directional adhesion,” in 2013 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems.
IEEE, 2013, pp.
5487–5493.
[12] A.
Kalantari, K.
Mahajan, D.
Ruffatto, and M.
Spenko, “Autonomous perching and take-off on vertical walls for a quadrotor micro air vehicle,” in 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2015, pp.
4669–4674.
[13] J.
Thomas, M.
Pope, G.
Loianno, E.
W.
Hawkes, M.
A.
Estrada, H.
Jiang, M.
R.
Cutkosky, and V.
Kumar, “Aggressive flight with quadrotors for perching on inclined surfaces,” Journal of Mechanisms and Robotics, vol.
8, no.
5, p.
051007, 2016.
[14] D.
Mellinger, N.
Michael, and V.
