One consequence is that $I _ { n _ { v } } - D _ { v w } D _ { \Delta }$ is nonsingular because $M _ { 1 1 } ( \infty ) = D _ { v w }$ and $\Delta ( \infty ) =$ $D _ { \Delta }$ . Thus $F _ { U } ( M , \Delta )$ is well-posed. Moreover, any $z \in \mathcal { D } ^ { c }$ is not a pole of $M _ { 1 1 }$ and $\Delta$ because both are stable. Hence we can apply (54):

$$0 \neq \det (I _ {n _ {v}} - M _ {1 1} (z) \Delta (z)) = \det (z I - \tilde {A}) \forall z \in \mathcal {D} ^ {c}.$$

Thus $F _ { U } ( M \Delta )$ is stable.

$B ) {  } A )$ : Assume A) fails to hold and we will show that B) fails to hold.

If A) fails to hold then there is a frequency $\theta _ { 0 } ~ \in ~ [ 0 , 2 \pi ]$ such that $\bar { \sigma } ( M ( e ^ { j \theta _ { 0 } } ) ) \ge 1$ . To shorten notation, define $M _ { 0 } : = M ( e ^ { j \theta _ { 0 } } )$ . Let $u _ { 0 } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { C } ^ { n _ { v } } , ~ v _ { 0 } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { C } ^ { n _ { w } }$ be the singular vectors corresponding to $\bar { \sigma } ( M _ { 0 } ) \colon \| u _ { 0 } \| _ { 2 } = \| v _ { 0 } \| _ { 2 } = 1$ and $\bar { \sigma } ( M _ { 0 } ) u _ { 0 } = M _ { 0 } v _ { 0 }$ . Define $\begin{array} { r } { \Delta _ { 0 } : = \frac { 1 } { \bar { \sigma } ( M _ { 0 } ) } v _ { 0 } u _ { 0 } ^ { * } } \end{array}$ so that $\begin{array} { r } { \bar { \sigma } ( \Delta _ { 0 } ) = \frac { 1 } { \bar { \sigma } ( M _ { 0 } ) } \leq 1 } \end{array}$ . Moreover, $( I _ { n _ { v } } - M _ { 0 } \Delta _ { 0 } ) u _ { 0 } = 0$ which implies det $( I _ { n _ { v } } - M _ { 0 } \Delta _ { 0 } ) = 0$ .

There are two cases. First, if $\theta _ { 0 } = 0 , \pi$ , or 2π then $M _ { 0 }$ and $\Delta _ { 0 }$ are real matrices and we can define constant system $\Delta : = \Delta _ { 0 }$ . Second, if $\theta _ { 0 } \in ( 0 , \pi ) \cup ( \pi , 2 \pi )$ then $M _ { 0 }$ and $\Delta _ { 0 }$ are complex matrices. We can construct a stable, LTI system $\Delta$ such that $\Delta ( e ^ { j \theta _ { 0 } } ) = \Delta _ { 0 }$ and $\| \Delta \| _ { \infty } = \bar { \sigma } ( \Delta _ { 0 } )$ . Theorem 9.1 of [1] gives the construction for continuous-time and a similar construction works in discrete-time.

In either case, the construction gives a stable, LTI system $\Delta$ with $\| \Delta \| _ { \infty } = \bar { \sigma } ( \Delta _ { 0 } ) \le 1$ and det $( I _ { n _ { v } } - M ( e ^ { j \theta _ { 0 } } ) \Delta ( e ^ { j \theta _ { 0 } } ) ) = 0$ . It follows from (54) that $\tilde { A }$ has a pole at $z = e ^ { j \theta _ { 0 } }$ and hence $F _ { U } ( M , \Delta )$ is unstable. □

Finally, we arrive at the main result of this appendix: a necessary and sufficient condition for the well-posedness, stability and gain-boundedness of the system $F _ { U } ( M , \Delta )$ when the uncertainty satisfies $\| \Delta \| _ { \infty } \leq 1$ .
