Bisheban, M.
and Lee, T.
(2020).
Geometric adaptive control with neural networks for a quadrotor in wind fields.
IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 29(4):1533–1548.
Bohn, J.
and Sanyal, A.
K.
(2016).
Almost global finite-time stabilization of rigid body attitude dynamics using rotation matrices.
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 26(9):2008–2022.
Chaturvedi, N.
A., Sanyal, A.
K., and McClamroch, N.
H.
(2011).
Rigid-body attitude control.
IEEE control systems magazine, 31(3):30–51.
Chen, C.-T.
(1984).
Linear system theory and design.
Saunders college publishing.
Chen, W.-H.
(2003).
Nonlinear disturbance observer-enhanced dynamic inversion control of missiles.
Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, 26(1):161–166.
Craig, W., Yeo, D., and Paley, D.
A.
(2020).
Geometric attitude and position control of a quadrotor in wind.
Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, pages 1–14.
Cui, L., Zhang, R., Yang, H., and Zuo, Z.
(2021).
Adaptive super-twisting trajectory tracking control for an unmanned aerial vehicle under gust winds.
Aerospace Science and Technology, 115:106833.
Faessler, M., Franchi, A., and Scaramuzza, D.
(2017).
Differential flatness of quadrotor dynamics subject to rotor drag for accurate tracking of high-speed trajectories.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(2):620–626.
Guo, B.-Z.
and Zhao, Z.-l.
(2011).
On the convergence of an extended state observer for nonlinear systems with uncertainty.
Systems & Control Letters, 60(6):420–430.
Hamrah, R.
and Sanyal, A.
K.
(2022).
Finite-time stable tracking control for an underactuated system in se (3) in discrete time.
International Journal of Control, 95(4):1106–1121.
Hanover, D., Foehn, P., Sun, S., Kaufmann, E., and Scaramuzza, D.
(2021).
Performance, precision, and payloads: Adaptive nonlinear mpc for quadrotors.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7(2):690–697.
Hardy, G.
H., Littlewood, J.
E., P´olya, G., P´olya, G., et al.
(1952).
Inequalities.
Cambridge university press.
Hartlieb, R.
J.
(1956).
The cancellation of random disturbances in automatic control systems.
PhDT.
Huang, Y., Xu, K., Han, J., and Lam, J.
(2001).
Flight control design using extended state observer and non-smooth feedback.
volume 1, pages 223–228.
Proceedings of the 40th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (Cat.
No.
01CH37228).
