Jia, J., Guo, K., Yu, X., Zhao, W., and Guo, L.
(2022).
Accurate high-maneuvering trajectory tracking for quadrotors: A drag utilization method.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7(3):6966–6973.
Khalil, H.
K.
(2002).
Nonlinear systems third edition.
Patience Hall, 115.
Lee, T., Leok, M., and McClamroch, N.
H.
(2010).
Geometric tracking control of a quadrotor uav on se (3).
pages 5420–5425.
49th IEEE conference on decision and control (CDC).
Liu, K., Wang, R., Zheng, S., Dong, S., and Sun, G.
(2022).
Fixed-time disturbance observer-based robust faulttolerant tracking control for uncertain quadrotor uav subject to input delay.
Nonlinear Dynamics, 107(3):2363– 2390.
Liu, L., Wang, D., and Peng, Z.
(2019).
State recovery and disturbance estimation of unmanned surface vehicles based on nonlinear extended state observers.
Ocean Engineering, 171:625–632.
Mechali, O., Xu, L., Huang, Y., Shi, M., and Xie, X.
(2021).
Observer-based fixed-time continuous nonsingular terminal sliding mode control of quadrotor aircraft under uncertainties and disturbances for robust trajectory tracking: Theory and experiment.
Control Engineering Practice, 111:104806.
Meier, L., Honegger, D., and Pollefeys, M.
(2015).
Px4: A node-based multithreaded open source robotics framework for deeply embedded platforms.
In 2015 IEEE international conference on robotics and automation (ICRA), pages 6235–6240.
IEEE.
Moeini, A., Lynch, A.
F., and Zhao, Q.
(2021).
Exponentially stable motion control for multirotor uavs with rotor drag and disturbance compensation.
Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, 103(1):1–17.
Moreno, J.
A.
and Osorio, M.
(2012).
Strict lyapunov functions for the super-twisting algorithm.
IEEE transactions on automatic control, 57(4):1035–1040.
Pope, S.
B.
(2000).
Turbulent flows.
Cambridge university press.
Pounds, P., Mahony, R., and Corke, P.
(2010).
Modelling and control of a large quadrotor robot.
Control Engineering Practice, 18(7):691–699.
Rosier, L.
(1992).
Homogeneous lyapunov function for homogeneous continuous vector field.
Systems & Control Letters, 19(6):467–473.
Sanyal, A.
(2022).
Discrete-time data-driven control with h¨older-continuous real-time learning.
International Journal of Control, 95(8):2175–2187.
Sanyal, A., Nordkvist, N., and Chyba, M.
(2010).
