To illustrate the first challenge, consider two distinct classes of linear systems. The first class employs the same generation procedure as described in Section III-A. In the second class, we follow a similar generation procedure, except for the A matrices, which are generated as upper-triangular matrices. Here, the diagonal entries are sampled from the interval [−0.95, 0.95], while the upper triangular entries are sampled from the range [−1, 1]. The experimental results, presented in Fig. 4, demonstrate that, compared with the densely generated A matrices, the upper-triangular A matrices make it harder for MOP to learn the optimal Kalman filter. As depicted in Fig. 4, the powers of the upper-triangular A matrices exhibit a slower decay rate and even initial overshoot in comparison to those of the dense A matrices. Noticing that $\begin{array} { r } { \mathbf y _ { t } = \sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { t } \mathbf C \mathbf A ^ { i } \mathbf w _ { t - i } + } \end{array}$ $\mathbf { v } _ { t } ,$ this implies that upper triangular A establishes stronger and longer temporal correlation between $\mathbf { y } _ { t }$ and past $\mathbf { y } ^ { \prime } \mathbf { s } ,$ i.e., slow mixing. This poses challenges to MOP but can be potentially mitigated by feeding MOP longer prompts, i.e. the time horizon T . Theoretically, the slow decay rate implies larger $L _ { \rho } : = C _ { \rho } / ( 1 - \rho )$ , which consequentially gives a looser risk upper bound in Theorem 1.

In our experiments in Section III, the distribution the source and target systems are drawn from is the same. Here we run an experiment to illustrate how MOP behaves if the target distribution is different than the source one. In particular, under the experimental setup of Section III-A, we train the MOP with noise covariances $\sigma _ { \mathbf { w } } ^ { 2 } = \sigma _ { \mathbf { v } } ^ { 2 } = 0 . 1 \mathbf { I } _ { n }$ and test on systems subject to a different noise covariance. As shown in Fig. 5, MOP’s performance degrades when the target systems are subject to a different noise distribution, especially when the noise covariance increases.
