Finally, real-world-compatible validation strategies are needed 1) to make sure that the new model improves over the old one, and 2) to evaluate the performance of different pipelines, picking the one with the best result, and/or choosing the optimal training set to use (e.g., T pi in Step 3 of Fig. 3). Present system identification literature benchmarks the accuracy of the proposed methods to the ‘ground truth’ of the synthetic networks used in the paper. This is not possible in real life and is a fundamental issue ignored by most papers, possibly due to lack of access to utility data.

We believe that, to be effective, such frameworks must combine data science and physics-based methods, and identify opportunities in system identification research:

• tackling the under-addressed network data error sources;   
• handling multiple error sources in an integrated fashion;   
understanding and mitigating the impact of unfavourable measurement conditions on system identification methods;   
• integrating real-world validation.

Furthermore, DNs are not static: once the present system is identified, models need to be kept up-to-date, consistent and interpretable. System changes must be identifiable with limited measurement requirements. To all ends, researchers would benefit from the access to real-life utility data. Recommendations for improved data and modelling practices include:

• well-defined semantics for the data models;   
consistency checking of data sets, including tagging whether network data has been Kron-reduced or not;   
user-friendly data debugging solutions. Power flow solvers throwing a ‘singularity error’ is unhelpful, and doesn’t help the discovery and learning process.
