[9] W.
Lohmiller and J.-J.
E.
Slotine, “On contraction analysis for non-linear systems,” Automatica, vol.
34, no.
6, pp.
683–696, 1998.
[10] P.
DeLellis, M.
di Bernardo, and G.
Russo, “On quad, lipschitz, and contracting vector fields for consensus and synchronization of networks,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, vol.
58, no.
3, pp.
576–583, 2010.
[11] H.
S.
Shiromoto, M.
Revay, and I.
R.
Manchester, “Distributed nonlinear control design using separable control contraction metrics,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
6, no.
4, pp.
1281–1290, 2019.
[12] M.
M.
Rayguru, B.
S.
Dey, and I.
N.
Kar, “Output feedback for contraction of nonlinear singularly perturbed systems,” International Journal of Control, vol.
95, no.
8, pp.
2199–2210, 2022.
[13] P.
Jagtap and M.
Zamani, “Backstepping design for incremental stability of stochastic Hamiltonian systems with jumps,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
63, no.
1, pp.
255–261, 2017.
[14] ——, “Symbolic models for retarded jump–diffusion systems,” Automatica, vol.
111, p.
108666, 2020.
[15] M.
Di Bernardo, D.
Liuzza, and G.
Russo, “Contraction analysis for a class of nondifferentiable systems with applications to stability and network synchronization,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
52, no.
5, pp.
3203–3227, 2014.
[16] D.
Fiore, M.
Coraggio, and M.
di Bernardo, “Observer design for piecewise smooth and switched systems via contraction theory,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
50, no.
1, pp.
2959–2964, 2017.
[17] D.
Fiore, S.
J.
Hogan, and M.
Di Bernardo, “Contraction analysis of switched systems via regularization,” Automatica, vol.
73, pp.
279–288, 2016.
[18] H.
Yin, B.
Jayawardhana, and S.
Trenn, “On contraction analysis of switched systems with mixed contractingnoncontracting modes via mode-dependent average dwell time,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2023.
[19] B.
Liu, B.
Xu, and Z.
Sun, “Incremental stability and contraction via impulsive control for continuous-time dynamical systems,” Nonlinear Analysis: Hybrid Systems, vol.
39, p.
100981, 2021.
[20] A.
Saoud, P.
Jagtap, M.
Zamani, and A.
Girard, “Compositional abstraction-based synthesis for interconnected systems: An approximate composition approach,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
8, no.
2, pp.
702–712, 2021.
[21] T.
Sun, W.
Xia, X.
Zhao, and X.-M.
