Finally, we examine the possibility of an attacker gaining access to a large portion of EVCS (unsecure private EVCSs for instance [60]). However, the modeling of the uncertainty in the feedback load of the controller, $\mathtt { u } = \varDelta P Q _ { E V }$ , accounts for such scenario and the mitigation scheme remains successful as long as the attacker does not control a larger portion of the EVCSs than the utility. To put things into perspective, let us assume the attacker attempts to compromise several EVCS in tandem with the previous 800MW attack. Based on the total (public and private) EVCS load curve in Fig. 3 the average EVCS charging load is 2960 MW. Thus, the attacker is required to compromise 1080MW of EVCS load in addition to the original 800MW to start degrading the performance of the mitigation scheme. Under such a condition, the attacker has compromised a total of 1880MW while the defender still has access to 1880MW of EV load. Even attackers knowledgeable of the presence of the mitigation scheme are required to compromise this much EVCS load to have an impact on the performance of our proposed EV-based mitigation. Beyond this point, the aggregate defender load starts becoming smaller than the aggregate attacker load following the behavior in Fig. 26. However, we stress that this scenario is far-fetched and practically impossible. Such an assumption would require an attacker with enough resources to compromise 31% of the total load of the power grid, which is extremely implausible.
