[32] S.
Weckx and J.
Driesen, "Load Balancing With EV Chargers and PV Inverters in Unbalanced Distribution Grids," IEEE Trans Sust Energy, vol 6, pp 635-643, 2015.
[33] H.
Liu et.
al., "EV Dispatch Control for Supplementary Frequency Regulation Considering the Expectation of EV Owners," IEEE Trans.
on Smart Grids, VOL.
9, pp.
3763-3772, 2018.
[34] H.
Liu et.
al., "Vehicle-to-Grid Control for Supplementary Frequency Regulation Considering Charging Demands," IEEE Trans.
on Power Syst,, vol.
30, pp.
3110-3119, 2015.
[35] C.
Mu et.
al., "Hierarchically Adaptive Frequency Control for an EV-Integrated Smart Grid With Renewable Energy," IEEE Trans.
on Industrial Informatics, Vol.
14, pp.
4254-4263, 2018.
[36] IEEE PES Task Force on Benchmark Systems for Stability Controls, "Benchmark Systems for Small-Signal Stability Analysis and Control".
[37] C.
A.
Cañizares et al., "Applications of optimization to voltage collapse analysis.," IEEE-PES Summer Meeting, San Diego, USA, vol.
26, 1998..
[38] C.
Rajagopalan et al., "Dynamic aspects of voltage/power characteristics," EEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol 7, 1992.
[39] P Kundur, "Power System Stability and Control," McGraw-Hill, 1994.
[40] K.
Moffat et al., "Unsupervised Impedance and Topology Estimation of Distribution Networks-Limitations and Tools," IEEE Trans Smart Grid, vol.
11, pp.
846-856, 2020.
[41] X.
Gao et al., "Stability Analysis of Grid-Following and Grid-Forming Converters Based on State-Space Model," 2022 International Power Electronics Conference, Himeji, Japan, 2022, pp.
422-428.
[42] L.
S.
Barros et.
al, "Matrix Method to Linearization and State Space Representation of Power Systems Containing Doubly Fed Induction Machines Operating as Wind Generators," 2006 IEEE/PES Transmission & Distribution Conf.
and Expo.: Latin America, Caracas, Venezuela, 2006.
[43] S.
K.
Pandey et al., "Full order observer based load frequency control of Single Area Power System," 2020 12th Int Conf on Comput Intell and Commun Netw, pp.
239-242, 2020.
[44] G.
Duan and H.
Yu, LMIs in Control Systems: Analysis, Design and Applications, CRC Press, 2013.
[45] X.
Yang et al., "Robust H∞ control for a class of uncertain mechanical systems," Int J of Control, vol 83, 2010.
[46] P.
Shukla et al., "A Study of H Infinity and H2 Synthesis for Active Vibration Control," IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol 49, 2016.
[47] M.
