[33] M. Vidyasagar, “On matrix measures and convex Lyapunov functions,” Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, vol. 62, no. 1, pp. 90–103, 1978.   
[34] Y. Kawano and B. Besselink, “Incremental versus differential approaches to exponential stability and passivity,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2024.   
[35] D. Liberzon and D. Nešić, “Stability analysis of hybrid systems via small-gain theorems,” in Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control: 9th International Workshop, HSCC 2006, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, March 29-31, 2006. Proceedings 9. Springer, 2006, pp. 421–435.   
[36] S. Dashkovskiy, B. S. Rüffer, and F. R. Wirth, “An iss small gain theorem for general networks,” Mathematics of Control, Signals, and Systems, vol. 19, pp. 93–122, 2007.   
[37] Z. Lyu, X. Xu, and Y. Hong, “Small-gain theorem for safety verification of interconnected systems,” Automatica, vol. 139, p. 110178, 2022.   
[38] D. S. Sundarsingh, B. S. Dey, and P. Jagtap, “Backstepping design for incremental input-to-state stabilization of unknown systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01872, 2024.   
[39] A. Basu, B. S. Dey, and P. Jagtap, “Formally verified neural lyapunov function for incremental input-to-state stability of unknown systems,” in 2025 European Control Conference (ECC). IEEE, 2025.   
[40] —, “Formally verified neural network controllers for incremental input-to-state stability of unknown discrete-time systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.04129, 2025.   
[41] , “Neural incremental input-to-state stable control lyapunov functions for unknown continuous-time systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.18330, 2025.
