McBride, K. and Sundmacher, K. (2019). Overview of surrogate modeling in chemical process engineering. Chemie Ingenieur Technik, 91(3):228– 239.   
Mnih, V., Kavukcuoglu, K., Silver, D., Graves, A., Antonoglou, I., Wierstra, D., and Riedmiller, M. (2013). Playing Atari with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.5602.   
Narasingam, A. and Kwon, J. S.-I. (2019). Koopman Lyapunov-based model predictive control of nonlinear chemical process systems. AIChE Journal, 65(11):e16743.   
Narasingam, A. and Kwon, J. S.-I. (2020). Application of Koopman operator for model-based control of fracture propagation and proppant transport in hydraulic fracturing operation. Journal of Process Control, 91:25–36.   
Nocedal, J. and Wright, S. J. (1999). Numerical Optimization. Springer.   
Open Power System Data (2020). Open power system data. https://data. open-power-system-data.org/time\_series/ (accessed on 2022-08-29).   
Paszke, A., Gross, S., Massa, F., Lerer, A., Bradbury, J., Chanan, G., Killeen, T., Lin, Z., Gimelshein, N., Antiga, L., et al. (2019). Py-Torch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 32:8024–8035.   
Pistikopoulos, E. N., Diangelakis, N. A., and Oberdieck, R. (2020). Multi-Parametric Optimization and Control. John Wiley & Sons.   
Proctor, J. L., Brunton, S. L., and Kutz, J. N. (2018). Generalizing Koopman theory to allow for inputs and control. SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems, 17(1):909–930.   
Quinonero-Candela, J., Sugiyama, M., Schwaighofer, A., and Lawrence, N. D. (2008). Dataset Shift in Machine Learning. MIT Press.   
Ralph, D. and Dempe, S. (1995). Directional derivatives of the solution of a parametric nonlinear program. Mathematical Programming, 70(1):159– 172.   
Schulman, J., Levine, S., Abbeel, P., Jordan, M., and Moritz, P. (2015a). Trust region policy optimization. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1889–1897.
