Rabhi, M.
Chadli, C.
Pegard, “Robust fuzzy control for stabilization of a quadrotor”, 15th International Conference on Advanced Robotics, Tallin, Estonia, June, 20-23, 2011.
[20] V.
Utkin, J.
Guldner, J.
Shi, Sliding mode control in electro-mechanical systems, CRC press, 2017.
[21] H.
Bouadi, S.
S.
Cunha, A.
Drouin, and F.
Mora-Camino, “Adaptive sliding mode control for quadrotor attitude stabilization and altitude tracking,” in Computational Intelligence and Informatics (CINTI), 2011 IEEE 12th International Symposium on.
IEEE, 2011, pp.
449–455.
[22] J.
Barbot, M.
Djemai, and T.
Boukhobza, “Sliding mode observers”, in W.
Perruquetti(ed.), Sliding Mode Control in Engineering, Marcel Dekker, New York, 2002.
[23] F.
Munoz, I.
Gonzalez-Hernandez, S.
Salazar, E.
S.
Espinoza, R.
Lozano, “Second order sliding mode controllers for altitude control of a quadrotor UAS: Real-time implementation in outdoor environments”, Neurocomputing, vol.
233, pp.
61-71, 2017.
[24] C.
Edwards, S.
K.
Spurgeon, and C.
P.
Tan, “On the development and application of sliding mode observers,” in X.
Yu, J.
X.
Xu(eds), Variable Structure Systems: Towards the 21st Century, Springer, 2002, pp.
253–282.
[25] M.
Guisser and H.
Medromi, “A High Gain Observer and Sliding Mode Controller for an Autonomous Quadrotor Helicopter”.
International Journal of Intelligent Control and Systems, vol.
14, no.
3, 2009, pp.
204-212.
[26] A.
Dávila, J.
A.
Moreno and L.
Fridman, “Optimal Lyapunov function selection for reaching time estimation of Super Twisting algorithm”, Proceedings of the 48th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) held jointly with 2009 28th Chinese Control Conference, Shanghai, 2009, pp.
8405-8410.
[27] Y.
Shtessel, C.
Edwards, and A.
Levant, Sliding mode control and observation.
Springer, New york, 2014, pp.
159-253
