# 7 CONCLUSION

The results proposed in this paper exploited the notion of contraction theory to study the incremental stability of interconnected nonlinear switched systems. We considered individual subsystems to be bimodal switched systems, and the nature of the switched considered is state-dependent switching. Analytical sufficient conditions are derived in order to ascertain the incremental input-to-state stability (??-ISS) of interconnected switched nonlinear systems in the presence of external inputs. Variational dynamics using Contraction theory have been used to obtain the set of mathematical conditions which ensure exponential convergence, whereas most of the existing literature related to ??−ISS of interconnected systems comment on asymptotic convergence. To propose the results, different interconnections are considered that are used extensively in different applications. In the case of feedback interconnection of bimodal switched systems, we propose a small gain condition to comment on the ??-ISS of the overall system. To add generality, the results are extended to general interconnections, which can be representative of large-scale systems, and corresponding small-gain conditions are stated. This explains how incremental stability is useful to enhance the scalability of a system under consideration. In addition, we extend the results for a class of cascaded systems. As an interesting extension, a special case in which one of the modes need not be contracting, very unlikely in the literature, is introduced with a supporting example.

Extending the results for the general higher-order interconnections of switched systems compared to existing results is under investigation. Our approach in this paper has a limitation as the analysis relies on exact model knowledge, which is not available in many applications. In the future, we plan to use data-driven techniques such as the Gaussian process [38] or neural network-based approaches [39, 40, 41] to comment on ??−ISS of an overall interconnected system. It is also planned to consider time-dependent switched interconnected systems in future.
