# IV. CONCLUSION

A valid quantum state observer is one whose state converges to that of the reference quantum system while also ensuring that its estimated state is a valid density operator. This note showed that when a valid quantum state observer is used to infer the state of a closed quantum system: (i) the entropy of the observer’s state is always essentially exponentially convergent to that of the system’s state, and (ii) the relative entropy between the observer and system’s states is essentially exponentially convergent to zero as long as the system starts in a full-rank state.

[1] P. A. M. Dirac, “The principles of quantum mechanics,” (Oxford, 1958).   
[2] J. von Neumann, “Mathematical foundations of quantum mechanics,” (Princeton, 1983).   
[3] S. P. Gudder, “Quantum probability,” (Academic, 1988).   
[4] M. J. Balas and V. P. Gehlot, in AIAA SCITECH 2022 Forum (2022) p. 2211.   
[5] K. Jacobs, “Quantum measurement theory and its applications,” (Cambridge University Press, 2014).   
[6] L. Bouten, R. Van Handel, and M. R. James, SIAM J. Control and Optimization 46, 2199 (2007).

[7] L. Accardi, “Quantum Kalman filters,” in Mathematical System Theory: The Influence of R.E. Kalman, edited by A. C. Antoulas (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1991) pp. 135–143.   
[8] T. D. Griffith, V. P. Gehlot, and M. J. Balas, in ASME Int. Mech. Eng. Congress and Exposition, Vol. 5: Dynamics, Vibration, and Control (2022).   
[9] M. Clouâtré, M. Balas, V. Gehlot, and J. Valasek, IEEE Trans. Quant. Eng. 3 (2022), 10.1109/TQE.2022.3209927.   
[10] M. Clouâtré, M. Balas, and M. Thitsa, in Proc. 2023 Am. Control Conf. (2023).

[11] V. Belavkin, O. Hirota, and R. L. Hudson, Quantum communications and measurement (Springer Science & Business Media, 2013) Chap. 4, pp. 309–380.   
[12] G. Tóth and I. Apellaniz, J Phys. A: Mathem. Theor. 47, 424006 (2014).   
[13] M. Fannes, Commun. Math. Phys. 31, 291 (1973).   
[14] R. W. Brockett, “Finite dimensional linear systems,” (SIAM, 2015).   
[15] P. J. Antsaklis and A. N. Michel, “Linear systems,” (Birkhauser, 2006).

[16] D. Luenberger, IEEE Trans. Automatic Control 11, 190 (1966).   
[17] C. E. Shannon, The Bell system technical journal 27, 379 (1948).   
[18] M. A. Nielsen and I. L. Chuang, “Quantum computation and quantum information,” (Cambridge Press, 2010).   
[19] M. A. Nielsen and I. L. Chuang, Quantum Computation and Quantum Information (Cambridge University Press, 2000).
