# REFERENCES

[1] B.
O.
Koopman, “Hamiltonian systems and transformation in hilbert space,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol.
17, no.
5, pp.
315–318, 1931.
[2] M.
Korda and I.
Mezic, “Linear predictors for nonlinear dynamical ´ systems: Koopman operator meets model predictive control,” Automatica, vol.
93, pp.
149–160, jul 2018.
[3] S.
L.
Brunton, B.
W.
Brunton, J.
L.
Proctor, and J.
N.
Kutz, “Koopman invariant subspaces and finite linear representations of nonlinear dynamical systems for control,” PLoS One, vol.
11, p.
e0150171, Feb.
2016.
[4] B.
Lusch, J.
N.
Kutz, and S.
L.
Brunton, “Deep learning for universal linear embeddings of nonlinear dynamics,” Nature Communications, vol.
9, Nov 2018.
[5] A.
Junker, J.
Timmermann, and A.
Trachtler, “Data-driven models for control engineering applications using the koopman operator,” in 2022 3rd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Control (AIRC), IEEE, may 2022.
[6] J.
Zhang and H.
Wang, “Online model predictive control of robot manipulator with structured deep koopman model,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
8, no.
5, pp.
3102–3109, 2023.
[7] J.
Zhan, Z.
Ma, and L.
Zhang, “Data-driven modeling and distributed predictive control of mixed vehicle platoons,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol.
8, no.
1, pp.
572–582, 2023.
[8] W.
A.
Manzoor, S.
Rawashdeh, and A.
Mohammadi, “Vehicular applications of koopman operator theory—a survey,” IEEE Access, vol.
11, pp.
25917–25931, 2023.
[9] J.
S.
Kim, Y.
S.
Quan, and C.
C.
Chung, “Data-driven modeling and control for lane keeping system of automated driving vehicles: Koopman operator approach,” in 2022 22nd International Conference on Control, Automation and Systems (ICCAS), pp.
1049–1055, 2022.
[10] Y.
Xiao, X.
Zhang, X.
Xu, X.
Liu, and J.
Liu, “Deep neural networks with koopman operators for modeling and control of autonomous vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol.
8, no.
1, pp.
135–146, 2023.
[11] J.
Leventides, E.
Melas, and C.
Poulios, “Koopman operators and extended dynamic mode decomposition for the inverted pendulum,” in 2022 4th International Conference on Industrial Artificial Intelligence (IAI), pp.
1–6, 2022.
[12] V.
Zinage and E.
Bakolas, “Neural koopman lyapunov control,” Neurocomputing, vol.
527, pp.
174–183, Mar.
2023.
[13] I.
