# References

Aghannan, N.
& Rouchon, P.
(2003), ‘An intrinsic observer for a class of lagrangian systems’, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 48(6), 936–945.
Bhat, S.
P.
& Bernstein, D.
S.
(2000), ‘A topological obstruction to continuous global stabilization of rotational motion and the unwinding phenomenon’, Systems & control letters 39(1), 63–70.
Bonnabel, S., Martin, P.
& Rouchon, P.
(2008), ‘Symmetry-preserving observers’, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 53(11), 2514–2526.
Bullo, F.
& Lewis, A.
D.
(2019), Geometric control of mechanical systems: modeling, analysis, and design for simple mechanical control systems, Vol.
49, Springer.
Bullo, F.
& Murray, R.
M.
(1999), ‘Tracking for fully actuated mechanical systems: a geometric framework’, Automatica 35(1), 17–34.
Crassidis, J.
L.
& Markley, F.
L.
(1996), ‘Sliding mode control using modified rodrigues parameters’, Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics 19(6), 1381– 1383.
Esp´ındola, E.
& Tang, Y.
(2023a), ‘A four-dof lagrangian approach to attitude tracking’, Automatica 151, 110880–110885.
Espindola, E.
& Tang, Y.
(2023b), ‘Geometric sliding mode control of mechanical systems on lie groups’, arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.19530 .
Fridman, L., Moreno, J., Iriarte, R.
et al.
(2011), ‘Sliding modes after the first decade of the 21st century’, Lecture notes in control and information sciences 412, 113–149.
Ghasemi, K., Ghaisari, J.
& Abdollahi, F.
(2020), ‘Robust formation control of multiagent systems on the lie group se (3)’, International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control 30(3), 966–998.
G´omez, C.
G.
C., Castanos, F.
& D´avila, J.
(2019), Sliding motions on so (3), sliding subgroups, in ‘2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)’, IEEE, pp.
6953–6958.
Hassan, K.
K.
et al.
(2002), ‘Nonlinear systems’, Departement of Electrical and computer Engineering, Michigan State University .
Lageman, C., Trumpf, J.
& Mahony, R.
(2009), ‘Gradient-like observers for invariant dynamics on a lie group’, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 55(2), 367–377.
Lee, H.
& Utkin, V.
I.
(2007), ‘Chattering suppression methods in sliding mode control systems’, Annual reviews in control 31(2), 179–188.
Lee, T.
(2011), Geometric tracking control of the attitude dynamics of a rigid body on so (3), in ‘Proceedings of the 2011 American Control Conference’, IEEE, pp.
1200–1205.
Lee, T., Leok, M.
& McClamroch, N.
H.
