# References

[1] L. Ambrosio, N. Gigli, and G. Savaré, Gradient flows: in metric spaces and in the space of probability measures, Springer Science & Business Media, 2006.   
[2] F. Beier, J. von Lindheim, S. Neumayer, and G. Steidl, Unbalanced multimarginal optimal transport, Journal of Mathematical Imaging and Vision, 65 (2023), pp. 394–413.   
[3] A. Braides, Gamma-Convergence for Beginners, Oxford University Press, 07 2002.

[4] E. Caglioti, F. Golse, and T. Paul, Towards optimal transport for quantum densities, Available on https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01963667/, (2018).   
[5] , Quantum optimal transport is cheaper, Journal of Statistical Physics, 181 (2020), pp. 149–162.   
[6] E. Carlen, Trace inequalities and quantum entropy: an introductory course, Entropy and the quantum, 529 (2010), pp. 73–140.   
[7] L. Chizat, G. Peyré, B. Schmitzer, and F.-X. Vialard, Scaling algorithms for unbalanced optimal transport problems, Mathematics of Computation, 87 (2018), pp. 2563–2609.   
[8] S. Cole, M. Eckstein, S. Friedland, and K. Życzkowski, On quantum optimal transport, Mathematical Physics, Analysis and Geometry, 26 (2023), p. 14.   
[9] M. Cuturi and G. Peyré, Computational optimal transport, Foundations and Trends® in Machine Learning, 11 (2019), pp. 355–607.   
[10] G. Dal Maso, Introduction to [Gamma]-convergence, Springer Science+Business Media New York, 1993.   
[11] G. De Palma and D. Trevisan, Quantum optimal transport with quantum channels, arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.00803, (2019).   
[12] S. Di Marino and A. Gerolin, An Optimal Transport approach for the Schrödinger bridge problem and convergence of Sinkhorn algorithm, Journal of Scientific Computing, 85 (2020).   
[13] , Optimal Transport losses and Sinkhorn algorithm with general convex regularization, arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.00976, (2020).   
[14] D. Feliciangeli, A. Gerolin, and L. Portinale, A non-commutative entropic optimal transport approach to quantum composite systems at positive temperature, Journal of Functional Analysis, 285 (2023), p. 109963.   
[15] C. Frogner, C. Zhang, H. Mobahi, M. Araya, and T. A. Poggio, Learning with a wasserstein loss, Advances in neural information processing systems, 28 (2015).   
[16] S. Kondratyev, L. Monsaingeon, and D. Vorotnikov, A fitness-driven crossdiffusion system from population dynamics as a gradient flow, Journal of Differential Equations, 261 (2016), pp. 2784–2808.   
[17] , A new optimal transport distance on the space of finite radon measures, arXiv preprint arXiv:1505.07746, (2016).
