Matthew Kuipers and Petros Ioannou. Multiple model adaptive control with mixing. IEEE transactions on automatic control, 55(8):1822–1836, 2010.   
Carolina Lidström, Richard Pates, and Anders Rantzer. H-infinity optimal distributed control in discrete time. In 2017 IEEE 56th Annual Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 3525–3530. IEEE, 2017.   
Kumpati S Narendra and Jeyendran Balakrishnan. Adaptive control using multiple models. IEEE transactions on automatic control, 42(2):171–187, 1997.   
Kumpati S Narendra and Zhuo Han. The changing face of adaptive control: the use of multiple models. Annual reviews in control, 35(1):1–12, 2011.   
Guannan Qu, Adam Wierman, and Na Li. Scalable reinforcement learning for multiagent networked systems. Operations Research, 70(6):3601–3628, 2022.   
Anders Rantzer. Minimax adaptive control for state matrix with unknown sign. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 53 (2):58–62, 2020.   
Anders Rantzer. Minimax adaptive control for a finite set of linear systems. In Learning for Dynamics and Control, pp. 893–904. PMLR, 2021.   
Venkatraman Renganathan, Andrea Iannelli, and Anders Rantzer. An online learning analysis of minimax adaptive control. Accepted to IEEE CDC, 2023a. URL https://arXiv.org/abs/2307.07268.pdf.   
Venkatraman Renganathan, Olle Kjellqvist, and Anders Rantzer. Distributed adaptive control for uncertain networks. Arxiv Submission, 2023b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17364.pdf.   
Emil Vladu and Anders Rantzer. On decentralized h-infinity optimal positive systems. IEEE Control Systems Letters, 7:391–394, 2022.
