for all $x ,$ for any sequence $\nu _ { n }$ converging to ν weakly in ${ \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ , we have $\nu _ { n } \otimes \pi _ { n } \to \nu \otimes \delta _ { f ( x , Q , \mu ) } =$ $\nu \otimes \pi$ weakly. Hence, if we pick $\nu _ { n } = \delta _ { x _ { \tau } }$ n and $\nu = \delta _ { x }$ , where $x _ { n } $ x in X, we have $\pi _ { n } ( \cdot | x _ { n } )  \pi ( \cdot | x )$ weakly. To complete the proof, we need to prove that $( \pi , \mu )$ is a mean-field equilibrium for the nomimal model as it is unique, i.e., $( \pi , \mu ) = ( \pi _ { 0 } , \mu _ { 0 } )$ . But since $\pi ( \cdot | x ) = \delta _ { f ( x , Q , \mu ) } ( \cdot )$ and $G ( \cdot , Q , \mu , \cdot ) = Q ( \cdot , \cdot )$ , the policy π is optimal for $\mu .$ Moreover, for any continuous bounded function g, we have

$$
\begin{array}{l} \left| \int_ {X} g (y) p (d y | x, f (x, Q, \mu), \mu) \mu (d x) - \int_ {X} g (y) \mu (d y) \right| \\ \leq \left| \int_ {X} g (y) p (d y | x, f (x, Q, \mu), \mu) \mu (d x) \right. \\ - \int_ {X \times A} g (y) p _ {n} (d y | x, a, \mu_ {n}) \pi_ {n} (d a | x) \mu (d x) \Big | \\ + \left| \int_ {X \times A} g (y) p _ {n} (d y | x, a, \mu_ {n}) \pi_ {n} (d a | x) \mu (d x) \right. \\ \end{array}
- \int_ {X \times A} g (y) p _ {n} (d y | x, a, \mu_ {n}) \pi_ {n} \mu_ {n} (d x) \Big |+ \left| \int_ {X \times A} g (y) p _ {n} (d y | x, a, \mu_ {n}) \pi_ {n} (d a | x) \mu_ {n} (d x) - \int_ {X} g (y) \mu_ {n} (d y) \right|+ \left| \int_ {X} g (y) \mu_ {n} (d y) - \int_ {X} g (y) \mu (d y) \right|$$

it follows that

$$\left| \int_ {X} g (y) p (d y | x, f (x, Q, \mu), \mu) \mu (d x) - \int_ {X} g (y) \mu (d y) \right| = 0$$

since the first and second term converges to 0 due to Lemma 4 and [44, Theorem 3.3], the third term is identically zero as $\mu _ { n } \mathrm { { ' s } }$ are state-measure in mean-field equilibria, and the last term converges to 0 due to the weak convergence. Hence, $( \pi , \mu )$ , where $\pi ( \cdot | x ) = \delta _ { \mathrm { a r g m i n } _ { a } Q ( x , a ) } ( \cdot )$ , is a meanfield equilibrium for the nominal model. Uniqueness of the mean-field equilibrium completes the proof. □

Remark 7. The reason behind rather vague definition of the space D is that, depending on the problem at hand one may need to consider handcrafted domain as the space of bounded Borel measurable functions might be too small or too big, depending on the situation.
