$$
\begin{array}{l} \sup _ {(x, a) \in X \times A} \left| \int_ {X} g (t) \hat {p} _ {n} (d t | x, a, \mu_ {n} ^ {\mathcal {C}}) - \int_ {X} g (t) p (d t | x, a, \mu) \right| \\ = \sup _ {(x, a) \in X \times A} \left| \int_ {S _ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))}} \sum_ {t ^ {\prime} \in X _ {n}} g (t ^ {\prime}) p (S _ {n, i (T _ {n} (t ^ {\prime}))} | z, a, \mu_ {n} ^ {\mathcal {C}}) \nu_ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))} (d z) \right. \\ \left. - \int_ {X} g (t) p (d t | x, a, \mu) \right| \\ = \sup _ {(x, a) \in X \times A} \left| \int_ {S _ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))}} \int_ {X} g \circ T _ {n} (t) p (d t | z, a, \mu_ {n} ^ {\mathcal {C}}) \nu_ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))} (d z) \right. \\ - \int_ {S _ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))}} \int_ {X} g (t) p (d t | x, a, \mu) \nu_ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))} (d z) \Bigg | \\ \leq \sup _ {t \in X} | g (t) | \sup _ {(x, z) \in X \times S _ {n, i (T _ {n} (x))}} \left(K _ {2} d _ {X} (z, x) + K _ {1} W _ {1} (\mu_ {n} ^ {\mathcal {C}}, \mu)\right) + \sup _ {t \in X} | g \circ T _ {n} (t) - g (t) | \\ \leq \sup _ {t \in X} | g (t) | \left(\frac {K _ {2}}{n} + K _ {1} W _ {1} (\mu_ {n} ^ {\mathcal {C}}, \mu)\right) + \sup _ {t \in X} | g \circ T _ {n} (t) - g (t) |. \\ \end{array}
$$

Since $d _ { X } ( T _ { n } ( t ) , t ) \leq 1 / n$ for any $t \in X$ , we have that su $\mathrm { p } _ { t \in X }$ |g ◦ $T _ { n } ( t ) - g ( t ) | \to 0$ as $n \to \infty$ by continuity. The first term above also vanishes as $n \to \infty$ hence $\hat { p } _ { n } ( \cdot | x , a , \mu _ { n } ^ { \mathcal { C } } )$ converges weakly to $p ( \cdot | x , a , \mu )$ uniformly in $( x , a )$ .

In a similar fashion, one can show that $\hat { c } _ { n } ( \cdot , \cdot , \mu _ { n } ^ { \mathcal { C } } )$ converges uniformly to $c ( \cdot , \cdot , \mu )$ uniformly on $X \times A$ . □

We are in position to state our main results of this section.

Theorem 4. Suppose $k _ { 1 } < k _ { 2 }$ and $k < 1$ holds. Under Assumption ${ \it 2 } ,$ mean-field equilibria for the quantized games induce mean-field equilibria in the extended setting that converge to that of the nominal game.

Proof. When the conditions $k _ { 1 } < k _ { 2 }$ and $k < 1$ hold, as stated in Theorem 1, the original game possesses a unique mean-field equilibrium. Utilizing Lemma 8 and Proposition 4, we find that the conditions outlined in Theorem 2 are satisfied by the extended games derived from the quantized ones. This completes the proof. □
