# References

Brian DO Anderson, Thomas S Brinsmead, Franky De Bruyne, Joao Hespanha, Daniel Liberzon, and A Stephen Morse. Multiple model adaptive control. part 1: Finite controller coverings. International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control: IFAC-Affiliated Journal, 10(11-12):909–929, 2000.   
Brian DO Anderson, Thomas Brinsmead, Daniel Liberzon, and A Stephen Morse. Multiple model adaptive control with safe switching. International journal of adaptive control and signal processing, 15(5):445–470, 2001.   
Gianluca Antonelli. Interconnected dynamic systems: An overview on distributed control. IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 33(1):76–88, 2013.   
Karl Johan Aström and Björn Wittenmark. On self tuning regulators. Automatica, 9(2):185–199, 1973.   
Bassam Bamieh, Fernando Paganini, and Munther A Dahleh. Distributed control of spatially invariant systems. IEEE Transactions on automatic control, 47(7):1091–1107, 2002.   
Daniel Cederberg, Anders Hansson, and Anders Rantzer. Synthesis of minimax adaptive controller for a finite set of linear systems. In 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 1380–1384. IEEE, 2022.   
Garry Didinsky and Tamer Basar. Minimax adaptive control of uncertain plants. In Proceedings of 1994 33rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, volume 3, pp. 2839–2844. IEEE, 1994.   
Joao Hespanha, Daniel Liberzon, A Stephen Morse, Brian DO Anderson, Thomas S Brinsmead, and Franky De Bruyne. Multiple model adaptive control. part 2: switching. International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control: IFAC-Affiliated Journal, 11(5):479–496, 2001.
