# References

Abbasi-Yadkori, Y. and Szepesvari, C. Regret bounds for the´ adaptive control of linear quadratic systems. In Proceedings of the 24th Annual Conference on Learning Theory, pp. 1–26. JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings, 2011.   
Astr ˚ om, K. J. and Wittenmark, B. On self tuning regulators. ¨ Automatica, 9(2):185–199, 1973.   
Bitmead, R. R., Gevers, M., and Wertz, V. Adaptive optimal control the thinking man’s GPC. Prentice Hall, 1990.   
Blanchini, F. and Miani, S. Set-theoretic methods in control, volume 78. Springer, 2008.   
Diamond, S. and Boyd, S. Cvxpy: A python-embedded modeling language for convex optimization. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(1):2909–2913, 2016.   
Goel, G. and Hassibi, B. The power of linear controllers in lqr control. In 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 6652–6657. IEEE, 2022.   
Jedra, Y. and Proutiere, A. Minimal expected regret in linear quadratic control. In International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pp. 10234–10321. PMLR, 2022.   
Kouvaritakis, B. and Cannon, M. Model predictive control. Switzerland: Springer International Publishing, 38, 2016.   
Lai, T. L. Asymptotically efficient adaptive control in stochastic regression models. Advances in Applied Mathematics, 7(1):23–45, 1986. ISSN 0196-8858.   
Li, Y., Chen, X., and Li, N. Online optimal control with linear dynamics and predictions: Algorithms and regret analysis. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 32, 2019.   
Lin, Y., Hu, Y., Shi, G., Sun, H., Qu, G., and Wierman, A. Perturbation-based regret analysis of predictive control in linear time varying systems. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:5174–5185, 2021.   
Lin, Y., Hu, Y., Qu, G., Li, T., and Wierman, A. Bounded-regret mpc via perturbation analysis: Prediction error, constraints, and nonlinearity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.12312, 2022.
