[7] L. Gr¨une. Homogeneous state feedback stabilization of homogeneous systems. SIAM Journal of Control and Optimization, 38(4):1288–1308, 2000.   
[8] H. Hermes. Nilpotent approximations of control systems and distributions. SIAM Journal of Control and Optimization, 24(4):731, 1986.   
[9] K. Hornik. Approximation capabilities of muitilayer feedforward networks. Neural Netorks, 4(2):251–257, 1991.   
[10] K. Hornik, M. Stinchcombe, and H. White. Multilayer feedfoward networks are universal approximators. Neural Networks, 2(5):359–366, 1989.   
[11] L.S. Husch. Topological Characterization of The Dilation and The Translation in Frechet Spaces. Mathematical Annals, 190:1–5, 1970.   
[12] M. Kawski. Families of dilations and asymptotic stability. Analysis of Controlled Dynamical Systems, pages 285–294, 1991.   
[13] V. V. Khomenuk. On systems of ordinary differential equations with generalized homogenous right-hand sides. Izvestia vuzov. Mathematica (in Russian), 3(22):157–164, 1961.   
[14] I. E. Lagaris, A. Likas, and D. I. Fotiadis. Artificial neural networks for solving ordinary and partial differential equations. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 9(5):987–1000, 1998.   
[15] M. Leshno, V. Lin, A. Pinkus, and S. Schocken. Multilayer feedforward networks with a nonpolynomial activation function can approximate any function. Neural Networks, 6(6):861–867, 1993.   
[16] A. Levant. Higher-order sliding modes, differentiation and output-feedback control. International Journal of Control, 76(9-10):924–941, 2003.   
[17] A. M. Lyapunov. The general problem of the stability of motion. Taylor & Francis, 1992.   
[18] B. Neyshabur, R. Salakhutdinov, and N. Srebro. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, chapter Path-SGD: Path-Normalized Optimization in Deep Neural Networks. The MIT Press, 2015.   
[19] A. Pazy. Semigroups of Linear Operators and Applications to Partial Differential Equations. Springer, 1983.   
[20] W. Perruquetti, T. Floquet, and E. Moulay. Finite-time observers: application to secure communication. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 53(1):356–360, 2008.   
[21] A. Polyakov. Generalized Homogeneity in Systems and Control. Springer, 2020.

[22] A. Polyakov, D. Efimov, and W. Perruquetti. Finite-time and fixedtime stabilization: Implicit Lyapunov function approach. Automatica, 51(1):332–340, 2015.   
[23] L. Rosier. Homogeneous Lyapunov function for homogeneous continuous vector field. Systems & Control Letters, 19:467–473, 1992.   
[24] V.I. Zubov. On systems of ordinary differential equations with generalized homogeneous right-hand sides. Izvestia vuzov. Mathematica (in Russian), 1:80–88, 1958.
