[11] C.D.Charalambous and N.U.
Ahmed.
Dynamic team theory of stochastic differential decision systems with decentralized noisy information structures via girsanov’s measure transformation.
arXiv, abs/1309.1913, 2013.
[12] C.
D.
Charalambous.
Decentralized optimality conditions of stochastic differential decision problems via Girsanov’s measure transformation.
Mathematics of Control, Signals, and Systems, 28(3):1–55, 2016.
[13] C.
D.
Charalambous and N.
U.
Ahmed.
Equivalence of decentralized stochastic dynamic decision systems via Girsanov’s measure transformation.
In IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 439–444.
IEEE, 2014.
[14] C.
D.
Charalambous and N.
U.
Ahmed.
Maximum principle for decentralized stochastic differential decision systems.
In IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 1846–1851.
IEEE, 2014.
[15] D.
Crisan, A.
Lobbe, and S.
Ortiz-Latorre.
Pathwise Approximations for the Solution of the Non-Linear Filtering Problem.
Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2022.
[16] G.
B.
Di Masi and W.
J.
Runggaldier.
Continuous-time approximations for the nonlinear filtering problem.
Appl.
Math.
Optim., 7(3):233–245, 1981.
[17] G.B.
Di Masi and W.J.
Runggaldier.
On approximation methods for nonlinear filtering.
In Nonlinear Filtering and Stochastic Control: Proceedings of the 3 rd 1981 Session of the Centro Internazionale Matematico Estivo (CIME), Held at Cortona, July 1–10, 1981, pages 249–259.
Springer, 1982.
[18] W.H.
Fleming and E.
Pardoux.
Optimal control for partially observed diffusions.
SIAM J.
Control Optim., 20(2):261–285, 1982.
[19] A.
Gupta, S.
Y¨uksel, T.
Ba¸sar, and C.
Langbort.
On the existence of optimal policies for a class of static and sequential dynamic teams.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 53:1681–1712, 2015.
[20] Y.
C.
Ho and K.
C.
Chu.
Team decision theory and information structures in optimal control problems - part I.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 17:15–22, February 1972.
[21] I.
Hogeboom-Burr and S.
Y¨uksel.
Sequential stochastic control (single or multi-agent) problems nearly admit change of measures with independent measurements.
Applied Mathematics and Optimization, 2023.
[22] J.
Huang, G.
Wang, and W.
Wang.
A general linear quadratic stochastic control and information value.
Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, page 126486, 2022.
[23] N.
