[10] A.
Molchanov, T.
Chen, W.
Honig, J.
A.
Preiss, N.
Ayanian, and ¨ G.
S.
Sukhatme, “Sim-to-(multi)-real: Transfer of low-level robust control policies to multiple quadrotors,” in International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2019, pp.
59–66.
[11] B.
Yu and T.
Lee, “Equivariant reinforcement learning for quadrotor UAV,” in 2023 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
2842–2847.
[12] B.
Li, S.
Li, C.
Wang, R.
Fan, J.
Shao, and G.
Xie, “Distributed circle formation control for quadrotors based on multi-agent deep reinforcement learning,” in 2021 China Automation Congress (CAC).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
4750–4755.
[13] S.
Batra, Z.
Huang, A.
Petrenko, T.
Kumar, A.
Molchanov, and G.
S.
Sukhatme, “Decentralized control of quadrotor swarms with end-toend deep reinforcement learning,” in Conference on Robot Learning.
PMLR, 2022, pp.
576–586.
[14] R.
Ourari, K.
Cui, A.
Elshamanhory, and H.
Koeppl, “Nearestneighbor-based collision avoidance for quadrotors via reinforcement learning,” in 2022 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2022, pp.
293–300.
[15] H.
Han, J.
Cheng, Z.
Xi, and B.
Yao, “Cascade flight control of quadrotors based on deep reinforcement learning,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
7, no.
4, pp.
11 134–11 141, 2022.
[16] K.
Gamagedara and T.
Lee, “Geometric adaptive controls of a quadrotor unmanned aerial vehicle with decoupled attitude dynamics,” Journal of Dynamic Systems, Measurement, and Control, vol.
144, no.
3, p.
031002, 2022.
[17] R.
Lowe, Y.
I.
Wu, A.
Tamar, J.
Harb, O.
Pieter Abbeel, and I.
Mordatch, “Multi-agent actor-critic for mixed cooperative-competitive environments,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
30, 2017.
[18] S.
Mysore, B.
Mabsout, R.
Mancuso, and K.
Saenko, “Regularizing action policies for smooth control with reinforcement learning,” in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
1810–1816.
[19] G.
C.
Lopes, M.
Ferreira, A.
da Silva Simoes, and E.
L.
Colombini, “Intelligent control of a quadrotor with proximal policy optimization reinforcement learning,” in 2018 Latin American Robotic Symposium, 2018 Brazilian Symposium on Robotics (SBR) and 2018 Workshop on Robotics in Education (WRE), 2018, pp.
503–508.
[20] J.
Panerati, H.
Zheng, S.
Zhou, J.
Xu, A.
Prorok, and A.
P.
