games. 2018.   
[37] M. Martinez, S. Rubenthaler, and E. Tanr´e. Approximations of a continuous time filter. Application to optimal allocation problems in finance. Stoch. Anal. Appl., 27(2):270–296, 2009.   
[38] P. R. Milgrom and R. J. Weber. Distributional strategies for games with incomplete information. Mathematics of operations research, 10(4):619–632, 1985.   
[39] N. Saldi and S. Y¨uksel. Geometry of information structures, strategic measures and associated control topologies. Probability Surveys, 19:450–532, 2022.   
[40] N. Saldi, S. Y¨uksel, and T. Linder. Finite model approximations and asymptotic optimality of quantized policies in decentralized stochastic control. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 62:2360 – 2373, 2017.   
[41] Z. Selk and S. Y¨uksel. Robust decentralized stochastic control of interacting particles via risk sensitive control under measure change. 2023.   
[42] R. Serfozo. Convergence of Lebesgue integrals with varying measures. Sankhy¯a: The Indian Journal of Statistics, Series A, pages 380–402, 1982.   
[43] J. Warga. Optimal Control of Differential and Functional Equations. Academic press, 2014.   
[44] H. S. Witsenhausen. Equivalent stochastic control problems. Math. Control, Signals and Systems, 1:3–11, 1988.   
[45] S. Y¨uksel. A universal dynamic program and refined existence results for decentralized stochastic control. SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 58(5):2711–2739, 2020.   
[46] S. Y¨uksel. On Borkar and Young relaxed control topologies and continuous dependence of invariant measures on control policy. SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 62:2367– 2386, 2024.   
[47] S. Y¨uksel and T. Ba¸sar. Stochastic Networked Control Systems: Stabilization and Optimization under Information Constraints. Springer, New York, 2013.   
[48] S. Y¨uksel and N. Saldi. Convex analysis in decentralized stochastic control, strategic measures and optimal solutions. SIAM J. on Control and Optimization, 55:1–28, 2017.
