Ikeda and S.
Watanabe.
Stochastic differential equations and diffusion processes, volume 24 of North-Holland Mathematical Library.
North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam;
Kodansha, Ltd., Tokyo, second edition, 1989.
[24] J.
Jackson and D.
Lacker.
Approximately optimal distributed stochastic controls beyond the mean field setting.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.02901, 2023.
[25] E.
R.
Jakobsen, A.
Picarelli, and C.
Reisinger.
Improved order 1/4 convergence for piecewise constant policy approximation of stochastic control problems.
Electronic Communications in Probability, 24:1–10, 2019.
[26] A.D Kara and S.
Y¨uksel.
Convergence of finite memory Q-learning for POMDPs and near optimality of learned policies under filter stability.
Mathematics of Operations Research (also arXiv:2103.12158), 2022.
[27] N.
Krylov.
On the rate of convergence of finite-difference approximations for bellman’s equations.
St.
Petersburg Math.
J., 9:639–650, 1998.
[28] N.
Krylov.
Approximating value functions for controlled degenerate diffusion processes by using piece-wise constant policies.
Electronic Journal of Probability, 4:1–19, 1999.
[29] N.
Krylov.
On the rate of convergence of finite-difference approximations for bellmans equations with variable coefficients.
Probab Theory Relat Fields, 117:1–16, 2000.
[30] N.
V.
Krylov.
Controlled diffusion processes, volume 14 of Applications of Mathematics.
Springer-Verlag, New York-Berlin, 1980.
[31] H.
J.
Kushner.
Numerical methods for stochastic control problems in continuous time.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 28(5):999–1048, 1990.
[32] H.
J.
Kushner and P.
G.
Dupuis.
Numerical Methods for Stochastic Control Problems in Continuous Time, volume 24.
Springer Science & Business Media, NY, 2001.
[33] Harold J.
Kushner.
A robust discrete state approximation to the optimal nonlinear filter for a diffusion.
Stochastics, 3(2):75–83, 1979.
[34] H.J.
Kushner.
Weak convergence methods and singularly perturbed stochastic control and filtering problems.
Springer Science & Business Media, Birkh¨auser Boston, 1990.
[35] H.J.
Kushner.
Weak convergence methods and singularly perturbed stochastic control and filtering problems.
Springer Science & Business Media, Birkh¨auser Boston, MA, 2012.
[36] D.
Lacker.
Probabilistic compactification methods for stochastic optimal control and mean field
