# REFERENCES

[1] A.
Anta and P.
Tabuada, “To sample or not to sample: Self-triggered control for nonlinear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
55, no.
9, pp.
2030–2042, 2010.
[2] D.
P.
Borgers, R.
Postoyan, A.
Anta, P.
Tabuada, D.
Nesiˇ c, and ´ W.
Heemels, “Periodic event-triggered control of nonlinear systems using overapproximation techniques,” Automatica, vol.
94, pp.
81–87, 2018.
[3] M.
Diagne and I.
Karafyllis, “Event-triggered boundary control of a continuum model of highly re-entrant manufacturing systems,” Automatica, vol.
134, p.
109902, 2021.
[4] N.
Espitia, “Observer-based event-triggered boundary control of a linear 2× 2 hyperbolic systems,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
138, p.
104668, 2020.
[5] N.
Espitia, I.
Karafyllis, and M.
Krstic, “Event-triggered boundary control of constant-parameter reaction–diffusion PDEs: a small-gain approach,” Automatica, vol.
128, p.
109562, 2021.
[6] W.
P.
M.
H.
Heemels, M.
C.
F.
Donkers, and A.
R.
Teel, “Periodic eventtriggered control for linear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
58, no.
4, pp.
847–861, 2013.
[7] W.
Heemels and M.
Donkers, “Model-based periodic event-triggered control for linear systems,” Automatica, vol.
49, no.
3, pp.
698–711, 2013.
[8] W.
Heemels, K.
H.
Johansson, and P.
Tabuada, “An introduction to eventtriggered and self-triggered control,” in 2012 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2012, pp.
3270–3285.
[9] R.
Katz, E.
Fridman, and A.
Selivanov, “Boundary delayed observercontroller design for reaction–diffusion systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
1, pp.
275–282, 2021.
[10] M.
Mazo, A.
Anta, and P.
Tabuada, “On self-triggered control for linear systems: Guarantees and complexity,” in 2009 European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2009, pp.
3767–3772.
[11] B.
Rathnayake and M.
Diagne, “Periodic event-triggered boundary control of a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs,” in 2023 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
1800–1806.
[12] , “Self-triggered boundary control of a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs,” in 2023 62nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
6887–6892.
[13] ——, “Observer-based event-triggered boundary control of the onephase Stefan problem,” International Journal of Control, pp.
1–12, 2024.
[14] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, N.
Espitia, and I.
