Karafyllis, “Observerbased event-triggered boundary control of a class of reaction–diffusion PDEs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
6, pp.
2905–2917, 2022.
[15] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, and I.
Karafyllis, “Sampled-data and eventtriggered boundary control of a class of reaction–diffusion PDEs with collocated sensing and actuation,” Automatica, vol.
137, p.
110026, 2022.
[16] M.
Wakaiki and H.
Sano, “Stability analysis of infinite-dimensional event-triggered and self-triggered control systems with Lipschitz perturbations,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.12916, 2019.
[17] ——, “Event-triggered control of infinite-dimensional systems,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
58, no.
2, pp.
605–635, 2020.
[18] H.
Wan, X.
Luan, H.
R.
Karimi, and F.
Liu, “Dynamic self-triggered controller codesign for Markov jump systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
3, pp.
1353–1360, 2021.
[19] J.
Wang and M.
Krstic, “Event-triggered adaptive control of a parabolic PDE–ODE cascade with piecewise-constant inputs and identification,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
9, pp.
5493–5508, 2023.
[20] W.
Wang, R.
Postoyan, D.
Nesiˇ c, and W.
P.
M.
H.
Heemels, “Periodic ´ event-triggered control for nonlinear networked control systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
2, pp.
620–635, 2020.
[21] X.
Yi, K.
Liu, D.
V.
Dimarogonas, and K.
H.
Johansson, “Dynamic event-triggered and self-triggered control for multi-agent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
8, pp.
3300–3307, 2019.
