Master’s thesis, EECS Department, University of California, Berkeley, Dec 2012.
[11] M.
Bangura and R.
Mahony Real-time model predictive control for quadrotors IFAC Proceedings Volumes, vol.
47, no.
3, pp.
11 773–11 780, 2014.
[12] M.
Kamel, T.
Stastny, K.
Alexis, and R.
Siegwart Model predictive control for trajectory tracking of unmanned aerial vehicles using robot operating system In Robot Operating System (ROS): The Complete Reference (Volume 2).
Springer International Publishing, 2017, pp.
3–39.
[13] B.
Li, W.
Zhou, J.
Sun, C.-Y.
Wen, and C.-K.
Chen Development of model predictive controller for a tail-sitter vtol uav in hover flight Sensors, vol.
18, no.
9, p.
2859, 2018.
[14] W.
Zhou, B.
Li, J.
Sun, C.-Y.
Wen, and C.-K.
Chen Position control of a tail-sitter uav using successive linearization based model predictive control Control Engineering Practice, vol.
91, p.
104125, 2019.
[15] N.
Mohajerin, M.
Mozifian, and S.
Waslander Deep learning a quadrotor dynamic model for multi-step prediction In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2018, pp.
2454–2459.
[16] N.
Mohajerin and S.
L.
Waslander Modelling a quadrotor vehicle using a modular deep recurrent neural network In 2015 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Hong Kong, China, 2015, pp.
376–381.
[17] S.
Bansal, A.
K.
Akametalu, F.
J.
Jiang, F.
Laine, and C.
J.
Tomlin Learning quadrotor dynamics using neural network for flight control In 2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Las Vegas, USA, 2016, pp.
4653–4660.
[18] N.
Knoebel, S.
Osborne, D.
Snyder, T.
Mclain, R.
Beard, and A.
Eldredge Preliminary modeling, control, and trajectory design for miniature autonomous tailsitters In AIAA Guidance, Navigation, and Control Conference and Exhibit, 2006, p.
6713.
[19] R.
H.
Stone Aerodynamic modeling of the wing-propeller interaction for a tail-sitter unmanned air vehicle Journal of Aircraft, vol.
45, no.
1, pp.
198–210, 2008.
[20] J.
Sun, B.
Li, L.
Shen, C.-K.
Chen, and C.-Y.
Wen Dynamic modeling and hardware-in-loop simulation for a tail-sitter unmanned aerial vehicle in hovering flight In AIAA modeling and simulation technologies conference, 2017, p.
0811.
[21] X.
Lyu, H.
Gu, J.
Zhou, Z.
Li, S.
Shen, and F.
