# A Pontryagin Maximum Principle

In this paper we used a version of Pontryagin Maximum Principle (PMP) which is slightly different from the one that is usually written in books (see, for instance [8] or [4]). So, for completeness, we recall here the precise statement of the PMP that we used in Section 2.

Let M be a smooth manifold of dimension $n , U \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ , and $( f _ { u } ) _ { u \in U } ,$ a family of smooth vector field on M. Suppose furthermore that $M \times \overline { { U } } \ni ( q , u ) \mapsto f _ { u } ( q )$ and $\begin{array} { r } { \dot { M } \times \overline { { U } } \ni ( q , u ) \mapsto \frac { \partial f _ { u } } { \partial q } ( q ) } \end{array}$ ∂fu are continuous. Fix $T > 0$ and define $\mathcal { U } = \{ u : [ 0 , T ]  U , u \in L _ { l o c } ^ { \infty } ( [ 0 , T ] , U ) \}$ the space of admissible controls. Fix $q _ { 0 } \in M$ and for all $u \in \mathcal { U }$ denote with $q _ { u } : [ 0 , T ] \to M$ the solution to the Cauchy Problem

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {q} _ {u} (t) = f _ {u (t)} (q _ {u} (t)) \\ q _ {u} (0) = q _ {0} \end{array} \right. \tag {A.1}
$$

Existence and uniqueness of solution to (A.1) are guaranteed by Carath´eodory Theorem, see, for instance [3].

Let $a : M \to \mathbb { R }$ be a smooth function. We define the cost functional

$$J (u) = a (q _ {u} (T)), \quad u \in \mathcal {U}.$$

Consider the following optimal control problem:

Problem (Optimal control). Maximize J among all admissible control u, i.e., find $\tilde { u } \in \mathcal { U }$ such that

$$
\left\{ \begin{array}{l} \dot {q} _ {\tilde {u}} (t) = f _ {\tilde {u} (t)} \left(q _ {\tilde {u}} (t)\right), \quad t \in [ 0, T ] \\ q _ {\tilde {u}} (0) = q _ {0} \\ a \left(q _ {\tilde {u}} (T)\right) = \max _ {u \in \mathcal {U}} a \left(q _ {u} (T)\right) \end{array} . \right. \tag {A.2}
$$

A solution $\tilde { u } \in \mathcal { U }$ to this problem is called optimal control and the corresponding solution to (A.1) is called optimal trajectory.

Definition A.3 (Attainable set). Fix $q _ { 0 } \in M$ . The set of attainable points from $q _ { 0 }$ of the control system (A.1) at time $T > 0$ from $q _ { 0 } \in M$ is

$$\mathcal {A} _ {q _ {0}} = \{q \in M | \exists u \in \mathcal {U} \mathrm{suchthat} q _ {u} (T) = q \}.$$

Remark A.4. Let $q _ { \tilde { u } }$ be an optimal trajectory for the optimal control problem. Then $a ( q _ { \tilde { u } } ( T ) ) \in$ $\partial a ( \mathcal { A } _ { q _ { 0 } } )$ .
