# REFERENCES

[1] J. Nikolic, M. Burri, J. Rehder, S. Leutenegger, C. Huerzeler, and R. Siegwart   
A uav system for inspection of industrial facilities In 2013 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Montana, USA, 2013, pp. 1–8.   
[2] S. Siebert and J. Teizer Mobile 3d mapping for surveying earthwork projects using an unmanned aerial vehicle (uav) system Automation in construction, vol. 41, pp. 1–14, 2014.   
[3] J. Sun, B. Li, Y. Jiang, and C.-Y. Wen A camera-based target detection and positioning uav system for search and rescue (sar) purposes Sensors, vol. 16, no. 11, p. 1778, 2016.   
[4] L. Bauersfeld, L. Spannagl, G. J. Ducard, and C. H. Onder Mpc flight control for a tilt-rotor vtol aircraft IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. 57, no. 4, pp. 2395–2409, 2021.   
[5] Y. Ke, K. Wang, and B. M. Chen Design and implementation of a hybrid uav with model-based flight capabilities IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 1114– 1125, 2018.   
[6] B. Li, J. Sun, W. Zhou, C.-Y. Wen, K. H. Low, and C.-K. Chen Transition optimization for a vtol tail-sitter uav IEEE/ASME transactions on mechatronics, vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 2534– 2545, 2020.   
[7] K. Benkhoud and S. Bouallegue \` Model predictive control design for a convertible quad tilt-wing uav In 2016 4th International Conference on Control Engineering & Information Technology (CEIT). IEEE, 2016, pp. 1–6.   
[8] F. Li, W.-P. Song, B.-F. Song, and H. Zhang Dynamic modeling, simulation, and parameter study of electric quadrotor system of quad-plane uav in wind disturbance environment International Journal of Micro Air Vehicles, vol. 13, p. 17568293211022211, 2021.   
[9] R. Bapst, R. Ritz, L. Meier, and M. Pollefeys Design and implementation of an unmanned tail-sitter In 2015 IEEE/RSJ international conference on intelligent robots and systems (IROS). IEEE, 2015, pp. 1885–1890.   
[10] P. Bouffard On-board model predictive control of a quadrotor helicopter: Design, implementation, and experiments
