# REFERENCES

[1] R. N. Jazar, Vehicle dynamics: theory and application. Springer, 2017.   
[2] C. Arana, S. A. Evangelou, and D. Dini, “Series active variable geometry suspension application to chassis attitude control,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 518–530, 2016.   
[3] —— , “Series active variable geometry suspension application to comfort enhancement,” Control Engineering Practice, vol. 59, pp. 111–126, 2017.

[4] M.
Yu, C.
Arana, S.
A.
Evangelou, and D.
Dini, “Quarter-car experimental study for series active variable geometry suspension,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
27, no.
2, pp.
743– 759, 2017.
[5] C.
Arana, “Active variable geometry suspension for cars,” Ph.D.
dissertation, Imperial College London, 2015.
[6] C.
Cheng and S.
A.
Evangelou, “Series active variable geometry suspension robust control based on full-vehicle dynamics,” Journal of Dynamic Systems, Measurement, and Control, vol.
141, no.
5, p.
051002, 2019.
[7] M.
Yu, C.
Cheng, S.
A.
Evangelou, and D.
Dini, “Robust control for a full-car prototype of series active variable geometry suspension,” in 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
7615–7622.
[8] —, “Series active variable geometry suspension: Full-car prototyping and road testing,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 2021.
[9] Z.
Feng, M.
Yu, C.
Cheng, S.
A.
Evangelou, I.
M.
Jaimoukha, and D.
Dini, “Uncertainties investigation and µ-synthesis control design for a full car with series active variable geometry suspension,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
53, no.
2, pp.
13 882–13 889, 2020.
[10] Z.
Feng, M.
Yu, S.
A.
Evangelou, I.
M.
Jaimoukha, and D.
Dini, “Musynthesis pid control of full-car with parallel active link suspension under variable payload,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol.
72, no.
1, pp.
176–189, 2023.
[11] D.
Q.
Mayne, J.
B.
Rawlings, C.
V.
Rao, and P.
O.M.
Scokaert, “Constrained model predictive control: Stability and optimality,” Automatica, vol.
36, no.
6, pp.
789–814, 2000.
[12] J.
B.
Rawlings and D.
Q.
Mayne, Model predictive control: Theory, computation and design.
Madison, Wisconsin: Nob Hill, August 2017.
[13] J.
M.
Maciejowski, Predictive control with constraints.
Edinburgh: Pearson Education Limited, 2002.
[14] S.
J.
Qin and T.
A.
Badgwell, “A survey of industrial model predictive control technology,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
11, pp.
733–764, 2003.
[15] Mehra, Raman K and Amin, Jayesh N and Hedrick, Karl J and Osorio, Carlos and Gopalasamy, Srinivasan, “Active suspension using preview information and model predictive control,” in Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE international conference on control applications.
IEEE, 1997, pp.
860–865.
[16] C.
G ¨ohrle, A.
Schindler, A.
Wagner, and O.
