[12] J.
Berberich, J.
Kohler, M.
A.
M ¨ uller, and F.
Allg ¨ ower, “Data-driven ¨ model predictive control with stability and robustness guarantees,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
4, pp.
1702–1717, 2021.
[13] A.
Bisoffi, C.
De Persis, and P.
Tesi, “Data-driven control via Petersen’s lemma,” Automatica, vol.
145, p.
110537, 2022.
[14] J.
Bongard, J.
Berberich, J.
Koehler, and F.
Allgower, “Robust stability ¨ analysis of a simple data-driven model predictive control approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
5, pp.
2625–2637, 2023.
[15] W.
Liu, J.
Sun, G.
Wang, F.
Bullo, and J.
Chen, “Data-driven resilient predictive control under denial-of-service,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
8, pp.
4722–4737, 2023.
[16] M.
Alsalti, V.
G.
Lopez, J.
Berberich, F.
Allgower, and M.
A.
M ¨ uller, ´ “Data-based control of feedback linearizable systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
11, pp.
7014–7021, 2023.
[17] L.
A.
Q.
Cordovil Jr, P.
H.
S.
Coutinho, I.
Bessa, M.
L.
C.
Peixoto, and R.
M.
Palhares, “Learning event-triggered control based on evolving data-driven fuzzy granular models,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
32, no.
5, pp.
2805–2827, 2022.
[18] V.
Digge and R.
Pasumarthy, “Data-driven event-triggered control for discrete-time LTI systems,” in Proc.
of the 2022 European Control Conference (ECC), 2022, pp.
1355–1360.
[19] X.
Wang, J.
Berberich, J.
Sun, G.
Wang, F.
Allgower, and J.
Chen, ¨ “Model-based and data-driven control of event- and self-triggered discrete-time linear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
53, no.
9, pp.
6066–6079, 2023.
[20] Z.-J.
Wei, C.-Y.
Xu, K.-Z.
Liu, W.-L.
Qi, and X.-M.
Sun, “Datadriven analysis and control of periodic event-triggered continuoustime systems,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
33, no.
13, pp.
7951–7967, 2023.
[21] W.-L.
Qi, K.-Z.
Liu, R.
Wang, and X.-M.
Sun, “Data-driven L2-stability analysis for dynamic event-triggered networked control systems: A hybrid system approach,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol.
70, no.
6, pp.
6151–6158, 2023.
[22] X.
Wang, J.
Sun, J.
Berberich, G.
Wang, F.
Allgower, and J.
Chen, ¨ “Data-driven control of dynamic event-triggered systems with delays,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
33, no.
12, pp.
7071–7093, 2023.
[23] C.
