# VI. CONCLUSION

The Koopman operator theory presents the opportunity to design control strategies for nonlinear complex dynamic systems using simple linear control theory. However, truncation error and identification biasedness due to measurement noise is a bigger roadblock to make it implementable for practical systems. The current work proposes to eliminate this gap by proposing a robust data-driven dual-loop control framework for nonlinear dynamical systems. The Koopman operator is used to identify high-dimensional approximate linear representation of the nonlinear dynamics, and the control strategy is developed based on the identified model. For learning the linear representation, Extended dynamical model decomposition (EDMD) is used. The study focused on the case of biased system identification due to measurement noise and how to design the control strategy to ensure stable and bounded system performance even with biased identified linear dynamics from Koopman operator theory.

The paper first presents how measurement noise affects the identification process and then calculates the upper bound due to measurement noise. The identified system dynamics is then utilized to generate dual-loop control. The dual-loop framework contains Linear Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) as a stabilizing controller and $H _ { \infty }$ control for guaranteeing performance robustness in the presence of model-mismatch. Based on truncation error due to approximation error and model biasedness due to measurement noise, a linear matrix inequality (LMI) condition is defined that ensures robust stability. To demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed approach, a simple Van Der Pol oscillator dynamics with control is considered. The results demonstrate that in the presence of both truncation error and model bias, a standard LQG control cannot regulate the system to the equilibrium point. However, our proposed dual-loop control robustly pushes the system to achieve equilibrium while minimizing output error between the estimated and actual system.
