# Chapter 5: Conclusion and Future Work

The proposed STDP based indirect training with backpropagation was found to produce results comparable to conventional Artificial neural networks. Overall, a high accuracy of 92% was obtained on the full MNIST dataset using \~3000 neurons. The proposed algorithm addresses the potential implementation in biological neural networks by including three specific methods: indirect training, restriction to only positive conductance and implementation of optogenetic control. With indirect training, the model takes into account the spatio-temporal nature of cell firings and the inability of direct manipulation of neuron conductance in its learning rule and proposes a manipulation of STDP rules to produce the required synaptic weight changes. By artificially spiking a presynaptic and postsynaptic neuron within a certain window, we effectively employ nature’s own learning methods to train our neural network. A calcium-based learning rule provides a better projection of required number of training pulses and also aids in readout of synaptic strength by possible calcium imaging. In traditional Artificial neural networks, constraints of positive only conductance, limits the decision surfaces that the neural network can learn in and results in lower accuracy. In ANNs, this limitation has been partially addressed by pruning, regularization, varied activation functions and other methods of computation that cannot be implemented in live neural networks. In our work, this constraint is addressed by inclusion of inhibitory neurons. By strengthening conductance of inhibitory neurons, we pass a larger negative input to the postsynaptic neuron, effectively hyperpolarizing it and lowering chances of spiking. The inclusion of optogenetic activation provides the high-level precision required for single neuron excitation, while leaving surrounding neurons unperturbed as opposed to interference caused by electric stimulation. Past works have worked on direct manipulation of SNNs [27][28][29], direct training using STDP [14], Single layer training of biologically plausible neural networks[30] and basic motor control algorithms[9][11]. Expanding on those works, the method proposed in this paper has an increased accuracy, is developed with consideration of biological constraints and is capable of identifying complex images.
