Pustelnik and M.
Foare, The faster proximal algorithm, the better unfolded deep learning architecture?
The study case of image denoising, European Signal Processing Conference, 947-951, 2022.
[16] D.
Lupu and I.
Necoara, Deep unfolding projected first order methodsbased architectures: application to linear model predictive control, European Control Conference, 2023.
[17] E.T.
Maddalena, C.G.
da S.
Moraes, G.
Waltrich and C.N.
Jones, A neural network architecture to learn explicit MPC controllers from data, IFAC World Congress, 53(2): 11362-11367, 2020.
[18] J.
Mattingley and S.
Boyd, Automatic code generation for real-time convex optimization, in Convex Optimization in Signal Processing and Communications, Cambridge University Press, 2009.

[19] I. Necoara and V. Nedelcu, Rate analysis of inexact dual first order methods: application to dual decomposition, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 59(5): 1232–1243, 2014.   
[20] V. Nedelcu, I. Necoara and Q. Tran Dinh, Computational complexity of inexact gradient augmented lagrangian methods: application to constrained MPC, SIAM Journal Control and Optimization, 52(5): 3109– 3134, 2014.   
[21] Y. Nesterov, Introductory Lectures on Convex Optimization: A Basic Course, Kluwer, 2004.   
[22] P. Patrinos and A. Bemporad, An accelerated dual gradient-projection algorithm for embedded linear model predictive control, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 59(1): 18–33, 2014.   
[23] J.B. Rawlings, D.Q. Mayne and M. Diehl, Model Predictive Control: Theory, Computation, and Design, Nob Hill Publishing, 2017.   
[24] S. Scholtes, Introduction to piecewise differentiable equations, Springer Science & Business Media, 2012.   
[25] G. Stathopoulos, A. Szucs, Y. Pu and C. Jones, Splitting methods in control, European Control Conference, 2014.   
[26] J. Xu, T.J.J. van den Boom, B. De Schutter and S. Wang, Irredundant lattice representations of continuous piecewise affine functions, Automatica: 70: 109–120, 2016.
