Cattafesta, “De-biasing the dynamic mode decomposition for applied koopman spectral analysis of noisy datasets,” Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics, vol.
31, pp.
349–368, 2017.

[16] M. Haseli and J. Cortés, “Approximating the koopman operator using noisy data: noise-resilient extended dynamic mode decomposition,” in 2019 American Control Conference (ACC). IEEE, 2019, pp. 5499–5504.   
[17] M. Wanner and I. Mezic, “Robust approximation of the stochastic koopman operator,” SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems, vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 1930–1951, 2022.   
[18] K. Zhou and Z. Ren, “A New Controller Architecture for High Performance, Robust, and Fault-Tolerant Control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 46, no. 10, pp. 1613–1618, 2001.   
[19] X. Chen, K. Zhou, and Y. Tan, “Revisit of LQG Control – a New Paradigm with Recovered Robustness,” in Proceedings of 58th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Nice, France, December 2019, pp. 5819–5825.   
[20] T. He, G. G. Zhu, and X. Chen, “A two-step LMI scheme for $H _ { 2 } { \cdot } H _ { \infty }$ control design,” in 2020 American Control Conference (ACC), 2020, pp. 1545–1550.   
[21] T. He, X. Chen, and G. G. Zhu, “A dual-loop robust control scheme with performance separation: Theory and experimental validation,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, pp. 1–1, 2022.   
[22] W. Chen, J. Yang, L. Guo, and S. Li, “Disturbance-observer-based control and related methods—an overview,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 2, pp. 1083–1095, 2016.   
[23] M. O. Williams, I. G. Kevrekidis, and C. W. Rowley, “A data–driven approximation of the koopman operator: Extending dynamic mode decomposition,” Journal of Nonlinear Science, vol. 25, no. 6, pp. 1307–1346, 2015.   
[24] M. Korda and I. Mezić, “Linear predictors for nonlinear dynamical systems: Koopman operator meets model predictive control,” Automatica, vol. 93, pp. 149–160, 2018.   
[25] G. W. Stewart, “On the perturbation of pseudo-inverses, projections and linear least squares problems,” SIAM review, vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 634–662, 1977.   
[26] X. Wei, N. Chen, C. Deng, X. Liu, and M. Tang, “Composite stratified anti-disturbance control for a class of mimo discrete-time systems with nonlinearity,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 453–472, 2012.
