# REFERENCES

[1] “General motors’ future electric vehicles to debut industry’s first wireless battery management system.” [Online]. Available: https://news.gm.com/ newsroom.detail.html/Pages/news/us/en/2020/sep/0909-wbms.html

[2] “Battery in the cloud.” [Online].
Available: https://www.
bosch-mobility-solutions.com/en/solutions/software-and-services/ battery-in-the-cloud/battery-in-the-cloud/   
[3] N.
Bhusal, M.
Gautam, and M.
Benidris, “Cybersecurity of electric vehicle smart charging management systems,” in 2020 52nd North American Power Symposium (NAPS).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
1–6.
[4] N.
Kharlamova, S.
Hashemi, and C.
Træholt, “The cyber security of battery energy storage systems and adoption of data-driven methods,” in 2020 IEEE Third International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Knowledge Engineering (AIKE).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
188–192.
[5] S.
Sripad, S.
Kulandaivel, V.
Pande, V.
Sekar, and V.
Viswanathan, “Vulnerabilities of electric vehicle battery packs to cyberattacks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.04822, 2017.
[6] I.
J.
Martinez-Moyano, R.
Oliva, D.
Morrison, and D.
Sallach, “Modeling adversarial dynamics,” in 2015 Winter Simulation Conference (WSC), 2015, pp.
2412–2423.
[7] A.
Khalid, A.
Sundararajan, A.
Hernandez, and A.
I.
Sarwat, “FACTS Approach to Address Cybersecurity Issues in Electric Vehicle Battery Systems,” in 2019 IEEE Technology & Engineering Management Conference (TEMSCON), 2019, pp.
1–6.
[8] M.
Culler and H.
Burroughs, “Cybersecurity considerations for gridconnected batteries with hardware demonstrations,” Energies, vol.
14, no.
11, p.
3067, 2021.
[9] G.
Battista Gaggero, A.
Armellin, G.
Ferro, M.
Robba, P.
Girdinio, and M.
Marchese, “BESS-Set: A Dataset for Cybersecurity Monitoring in a Battery Energy Storage System,” IEEE Open Access Journal of Power and Energy, vol.
11, pp.
362–372, 2024.
[10] M.
Pasetti, P.
Ferrari, P.
Bellagente, E.
Sisinni, A.
O.
de Sa, C.
B.
d.
´ Prado, R.
P.
David, and R.
C.
S.
Machado, “Artificial Neural Network-Based Stealth Attack on Battery Energy Storage Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol.
12, no.
6, pp.
5310–5321, 2021.
[11] D.
D.
Sharma, S.
N.
Singh, J.
Lin, and E.
Foruzan, “Agent-Based Distributed Control Schemes for Distributed Energy Storage Systems Under Cyber Attacks,” IEEE Journal on Emerging and Selected Topics in Circuits and Systems, vol.
7, no.
2, pp.
307–318, 2017.
[12] X.
Liu, M.
Shahidehpour, Y.
Cao, L.
Wu, W.
Wei, and X.
Liu, “Microgrid Risk Analysis Considering the Impact of Cyber Attacks on Solar PV and ESS Control Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol.
8, no.
3, pp.
1330–1339, 2017.
[13] S.
