# V. SIMULATION RESULTS

The current work considers a nonlinear Van Der Pol oscillator for demonstrating the theoretical formulations. The non-conservative system dynamics with nonlinear damping is given as

$$\dot {x} _ {1} = x _ {2} \tag {72}\dot {x} _ {2} = \mu (1 - x _ {1} ^ {2}) x _ {2} - x _ {1} + u$$

The coefficient ?? determines the damping coefficient, and for the current work, it was chosen as $\mu = 1$ . The goal is to stabilize the origin by designing an output feedback control law based on data. For the current problem, the output ?? of the system is assumed to be both the state measurements. Therefore, the final dynamics of the system can be written as

$$\dot {X} = f (X, u), \quad y = X \tag {73}$$

where,

$$
f = \left[ \begin{array}{c} x _ {2} \\ \mu (1 - x _ {1} ^ {2}) x _ {2} - x _ {1} + u \end{array} \right]
$$

The dynamics is first discretizing using Runge-Kutta 4 with a step size of $\Delta t = 0 . 0 1$ . The discretised dynamics is then simulated for 20 seconds to collect data points. For lifting the dynamics, monomials of the order of up to 5 were chosen, making the observable space 21- dimensional. For data generation, a uniformly distributed random initial condition $x _ { 0 } \in \left[ - 1 , 1 \right]$ and control input $u \in [ - 1 0 , 1 0 ]$ was chosen. A uniform Gaussian white noise is added to the output measurements to simulate noisy observation. Based on the identified Koopman model, the proposed closed-loop control based on theorem (2) is designed.

Before moving forward, it is important to see how adding a small noise significantly changes the Koopman-identified model and why it is necessary to consider model mismatch due to measurement noise. Figure 2 shows two cases of implementing the Koopman identification approach using measurements with different noise levels. Figure 2a on the left is with a smaller noise variance $\sigma = 0 . 0 1$ , and Figure 2b with bigger noise variance $\sigma = 0 . 0 5$ . One obvious observation is that in both cases, the identified dynamics do not match true Van Der Pol oscillator behaviour. However, with higher noise case, the identified Koopman dynamics converges faster to the equilibrium point, which is the origin. Designing any feedback control strategies based on the Koopman-identified model and then implementing it on an actual system could lead to unwanted control behaviour as the model mismatch between the true and identified model increases drastically with measurement corruption.
