[9] X.
Jin, S.
Lu, and J.
Yu, “Adaptive NN-Based Consensus for a Class of Nonlinear Multiagent Systems With Actuator Faults and Faulty Networks,” pp.
1–13, 2021.
[10] X.
Dai, A.
Lederer, Z.
Yang, and S.
Hirche, “Can Learning Deteriorate Control?
Analyzing Computational Delays in Gaussian Process-Based Event-Triggered Online Learning,” in Learning for Dynamics and Control Conference, pp.
445–457, PMLR, 2023.
[11] C.
E.
Rasmussen and C.
K.
I.
Williams, Gaussian Processes for Machine Learning.
Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning, Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press, 2006.
[12] Z.
Yang, S.
Sosnowski, Q.
Liu, J.
Jiao, A.
Lederer, and S.
Hirche, “Distributed Learning Consensus Control for Unknown Nonlinear Multi-Agent Systems Based on Gaussian Processes,” in 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp.
4406–4411, IEEE, 2021.
[13] Z.
Yang, S.
Dong, A.
Lederer, X.
Dai, S.
Chen, S.
Sosnowski, G.
Hattab, and S.
Hirche, “Cooperative learning with gaussian processes for euler-lagrange systems tracking control under switching topologies,” 2024.
[14] Z.
Yang, X.
Dai, A.
Dubey, S.
Hirche, and G.
Hattab, “Whom to Trust?
Elective Learning for Distributed Gaussian Process Regression,” 2024.
[15] Z.
Yang, X.
Dai, A.
Dubey, S.
Hirche, and G.
Hattab, “Pri-GP: Prior-Aware Distributed Gaussian Process Regression,” 2024.
[16] S.
S.
Kia, B.
Van Scoy, J.
Cortes, R.
A.
Freeman, K.
M.
Lynch, and S.
Martinez, “Tutorial on Dynamic Average Consensus: The Problem, Its Applications, and the Algorithms,” vol.
39, no.
3, pp.
40–72.
[17] A.
Lederer, Z.
Yang, J.
Jiao, and S.
Hirche, “Cooperative Control of Uncertain Multiagent Systems via Distributed Gaussian Processes,” vol.
68, no.
5, pp.
3091–3098, 2023.
[18] T.
Beckers, G.
J.
Pappas, and L.
J.
Colombo, “Learning Rigiditybased Flocking Control Using Gaussian Processes with Probabilistic Stability Guarantees,” in 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp.
7254–7259, IEEE.
[19] X.
Dai, Z.
Yang, and S.
Hirche, “Cooperative Online Learning for Multi-Agent System Control via Gaussian Processes with Event-Triggered Mechanism: Extended Version,” 2024.
[20] R.
O.
Saber and R.
M.
Murray, “Consensus Protocols for Networks of Dynamic Agents,” 2003.
[21] Z.
Li, Z.
Duan, and F.
L.
Lewis, “Distributed Robust Consensus Control of Multi-agent Systems with Heterogeneous Matching Uncertainties,” Automatica, vol.
50, no.
3, pp.
883–889, 2014.
