The inspectors are deployed on three separate PRO trajectories (Fig. 3) according to the parameters in Tab II, with a non-zero initial tracking error contained inside the initial safe set. Namely, the initial condition at time $\begin{array} { r l r l } { t _ { 0 } } & { { } = } & { 0 } \end{array}$ for each inspector is $\begin{array} { r l } { \tilde { \pmb { x } } _ { 1 } ( 0 ) } & { { } = } \end{array}$ $[ 5 5 . 7 0 , 1 . 0 8 , 2 . 4 3 , 1 . 7 3 \times 1 0 ^ { - 2 } , - 9 . 2 3 \times 1 0 ^ { - 2 } , 8 . 0 0 \times 1 0 ^ { - 3 } ] .$ , $\begin{array} { r l r } { \tilde { x } _ { 2 } ( 0 ) } & { { } = } & { [ 6 7 . 7 2 , 3 . 2 7 , 3 . 8 8 , - 2 . 5 ~ \times ~ 1 0 ^ { - 3 } , - 1 . 3 6 ~ \times } \end{array}$ $1 0 ^ { - 1 } , 7 . 0 1 \times 1 0 ^ { - 2 } ]$ ] and $\pmb { \tilde { x } } _ { 3 } ( 0 ) = [ 8 2 . 6 3 , 0 . 6 5 , 4 . 2 1 , - 1 . 3 9 \times$ $1 0 ^ { - 2 } , - 4 . 8 5 \times 1 \bar { 0 } ^ { - 2 } , 1 . 6 1 \times 1 0 ^ { - 1 } |$ . Moreover, we have $\mathbb { U } = \{ \pmb { u } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 } : \| \pmb { u } \| \le 0 . 0 2 \}$ and $\mathbb { I } = [ 0 , T ]$ with $T$ being the period of the assigned PRO (which is approximately 93 min). The set X˜ is chosen for each inspector $i = { 1 , 2 , 3 }$ as $\tilde { \mathbb { X } } _ { i } ~ = ~ \{ \tilde { \pmb { x } } ~ \in ~ \mathbb { R } ^ { 6 } ~ : ~ \| \delta \pmb { r } \| ~ \le ~ k _ { 1 } \bar { r } _ { r , i } ~ \wedge ~ \| \delta \pmb { v } \| ~ \le ~ k _ { 2 } \bar { v } _ { r , i } \}$ with $k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 } \ \in \ \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 }$ being two sufficiently large constants that realistically capture the workspace. For this mission simulation, we used $k _ { 1 } ~ = ~ k _ { 2 } ~ = ~ 1 . 4$ , and Table. II summarises the CMPC parameters. We considered $\begin{array} { l l l } { Q } & { = } & { d i a g ( [ 5 0 I _ { 3 \times 3 } , 5 9 . 1 7 I _ { 3 \times 3 } ] ) } \end{array}$ , $\begin{array} { r c l } { R } & { = } & { 5 0 I _ { 3 \times 3 } } \end{array}$ and $V ( e _ { x } ) ~ = ~ 2 e _ { x } ^ { T } P e _ { x }$ where P is obtained by solving the discrete algebraic Riccati equation with a linearised dynamics along the reference trajectory. The time step was chosen as $\Delta t \ = \ 0 . 1$ s with N = 25 horizon steps. The solution to (19) took 105 min. The simulation results are illustrated in Fig. 2 for a time interval of 3 min. We observe that each inspector can simultaneously satisfy (18c)-(18d) such that the safety specification in Problem 1 is respected. Particularly, we notice how the optimal control strategy results in an accelerate-coast-break profile: the velocity error is first increased to its maximum norm to lower the position tracking error as fast as possible, and then the inspector is left under minimum actuation until the velocity and position errors are driven to zero.
