[2] M.
Mesbahi and M.
Egerstedt, “Graph theoretic methods in multiagent networks,” in Graph Theoretic Methods in Multiagent Networks.
Princeton University Press, 2010.
[3] A.
Ekblaw and J.
Paradiso, “Self-Assembling Space Habitats: TESSERAE design and mission architecture,” in Aerospace Conference.
IEEE, 2019, pp.
1–11.
[4] B.
Khoshnevis, A.
Carlson, and M.
Thangavelu, “ISRU-based robotic construction technologies for lunar and martian infrastructures,” Tech.
Rep., 2017.
[5] A.
Flores-Abad, O.
Ma, K.
Pham, and S.
Ulrich, “A review of space robotics technologies for on-orbit servicing,” Progress in Aerospace Sciences, vol.
68, pp.
1–26, Jul.
2014.
[6] Y.
K.
Nakka, W.
Hönig, C.
Choi, A.
Harvard, A.
Rahmani, and S.- J.
Chung, “Information-based guidance and control architecture for multi-spacecraft on-orbit inspection,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
45, no.
7, pp.
1184–1201, 2022.
[7] K.
T.
Alfriend, S.
R.
Vadali, P.
Gurfil, J.
P.
How, and L.
Breger, Spacecraft formation flying: Dynamics, control and navigation.
Elsevier, 2009, vol.
2.
[8] J.
Zeng, B.
Zhang, and K.
Sreenath, “Safety-critical model predictive control with discrete-time control barrier function,” in American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
3882–3889.
[9] W.
S.
Cortez, D.
Oetomo, C.
Manzie, and P.
Choong, “Control barrier functions for mechanical systems: Theory and application to robotic grasping,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
29, no.
2, pp.
530–545, 2019.
[10] J.
Breeden, K.
Garg, and D.
Panagou, “Control barrier functions in sampled-data systems,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
6, pp.
367– 372, 2021.
[11] P.
Roque, W.
S.
Cortez, L.
Lindemann, and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “Corridor MPC: Towards optimal and safe trajectory tracking,” in American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2022, pp.
2025–2032.
[12] X.
Tan and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “Compatibility checking of multiple control barrier functions for input constrained systems,” in Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2022, pp.
939–944.
[13] D.
Morgan, S.-J.
Chung, L.
Blackmore, B.
Acikmese, D.
Bayard, and F.
Y.
Hadaegh, “Swarm-keeping strategies for spacecraft under J2 and atmospheric drag perturbations,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
35, no.
5, pp.
1492–1506, 2012.
[14] A.
D.
Ames, S.
Coogan, M.
Egerstedt, G.
Notomista, K.
Sreenath, and P.

Tabuada, “Control barrier functions: Theory and applications,” in European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
3420–3431.
[15] W.
Xiao and C.
Belta, “Control barrier functions for systems with high relative degree,” in Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
474–479.
[16] E.
D.
Sontag, Mathematical control theory: deterministic finite dimensional systems.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2013, vol.
6.
[17] S.
Scholtes, Introduction to piecewise differentiable equations.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2012.
