# 3. Feature Construction Over Time

In the continuous-time data streaming setup, the target signal $Y \left( t ; \theta \right)$ can be constructed by designing i) a regressor filter resembling the observation error system $\Sigma _ { f }$ , and ii) a feature extender which internally constructs and retains a mini-batch-like memory of the information extracted from the observed data signals.

Let us define the regressor filter that generates $\Phi _ { f } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p \times n }$ as

$$\Sigma_ {\Phi f}: \quad \dot {\Phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (t) = A _ {o} \Phi_ {f} ^ {T} (t) - b \Phi (x (t)) ^ {T}, \quad \Phi_ {f} (0) = 0 \tag {B.8}$$

with $A _ { o }$ chosen for $\Sigma _ { o }$ in Eq. (A.1). By substituting Eq. (B.6) into Eq. (A.2), the observation error can be represented as

$$\tilde {x} (t) = \Phi_ {f} ^ {T} (t) \theta \tag {B.9}$$

when the initial condition is given by $\tilde { x } \left( 0 \right) = 0$ . Then, the feature extender for constructing the information matrix $\Omega \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q \times p }$ for some $q \geq 1$ and the target signal $Y \left( t ; \theta \right)$ can be designed as a stable and time-varying filter that applies to the output of regressor filter and evolves according to

$$\dot {\Omega} (t) = A _ {Y} (t) \Omega (t) + B _ {Y} (t) \Phi_ {f} ^ {T} (t), \quad \Omega (0) = 0\Sigma_ {\Phi e}: \quad \dot {\eta} (t) = A _ {Y} (t) \eta (t) + B _ {Y} (t) \tilde {x} (t), \quad \eta (0) = 0 \tag {B.10}Y (t; \theta) = \mathcal {M} [ \eta (t) ]$$

where $A _ { Y } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q \times q }$ is a forgetting factor such that $A _ { Y } \left( t \right) + A _ { Y } ^ { T } \left( t \right) \leq 0$ for stability, $B _ { Y } \left( t \right) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q \times n }$ is an update factor or an exogenous driving signal, and M [·] is a linear operator which generates a bounded output in the form of either square or tall matrix. By substituting Eq. (B.9) into Eq. (B.10), we have

$$\eta (t) = \Omega (t) \theta \tag {B.11}$$

and therefore, the target signal can be represented as

$$Y (t; \theta) = \mathcal {M} [ \Omega (t) ] \theta \tag {B.12}$$

Correspondingly, the predicted output can be represented as

$$\hat {Y} (t; \hat {\theta} (t)) = \mathcal {M} [ \Omega (t) ] \hat {\theta} (t) \tag {B.13}$$

Remark B.1. Conceptually, the design of the feature extender aims to achieve full rank and to condition the matrix M [Ω (??)] in a short interval of time so that the unknown parameter ?? becomes identifiable from the known signals $Y \left( t ; \theta \right)$ and M [Ω (??)]. One possible strategy is to perform pointwise-in-time optimisation of the forgetting and update factors considering the change of singular value/vector structure (or eigenstructure) of M [Ω (??)].
