[13] Lennart Harnefors.
“Modeling of three-phase dynamic systems using complex transfer functions and transfer matrices”.
In: IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics 54.4 (2007), pp.
2239–2248.
[14] Kazuhiko Hiramoto, Javad Mohammadpour, and Karolos M Grigoriadis.
“Integrated design of system parameters, control and sensor/actuator placement for symmetric mechanical systems”.
In: Proceedings of the 48h IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) held jointly with 2009 28th Chinese Control Conference.
IEEE.
2009, pp.
2855–2860.
[15] Sumit Kumar Jha, Sayan Basu Roy, and Shubhendu Bhasin.
“Initial excitation-based iterative algorithm for approximate optimal control of completely unknown LTI systems”.
In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 64.12 (2019), pp.
5230–5237.
[16] Yu Jiang and Zhong-Ping Jiang.
“Computational adaptive optimal control for continuous-time linear systems with completely unknown dynamics”.
In: Automatica 48.10 (2012), pp.
2699–2704.
[17] David Kleinman.
“On an iterative technique for Riccati equation computations”.
In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 13.1 (1968), pp.
114–115.
[18] David L Kleinman.
“Suboptimal design of linear regulator systems subject to computer storage limitations”.
PhD thesis.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1967.
[19] Omran Kouba and Dennis S Bernstein.
“What is the adjoint of a linear system?[lecture notes]”.
In: IEEE Control Systems Magazine 40.3 (2020), pp.
62–70.
[20] Jae Young Lee, Jin Bae Park, and Yoon Ho Choi.
“Integral Q-learning and explorized policy iteration for adaptive optimal control of continuoustime linear systems”.
In: Automatica 48.11 (2012), pp.
2850–2859.
[21] Frank L Lewis, Draguna Vrabie, and Vassilis L Syrmos.
Optimal control.
John Wiley & Sons, 2012.
[22] Chao Li, Derong Liu, and Hongliang Li.
“Finite horizon optimal tracking control of partially unknown linear continuous-time systems using policy iteration”.
In: IET Control Theory & Applications 9.12 (2015), pp.
1791–1801.
[23] Mei Liu et al.
“On positive realness, negative imaginariness, and H∞ control of state-space symmetric systems”.
In: Automatica 101 (2019), pp.
190– 196.
[24] Victor G Lopez, Mohammad Alsalti, and Matthias A M¨uller.
“Efficient off-policy Q-learning for databased discrete-time LQR problems”.
In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (2023).
[25] Paolo R Massenio et al.
