“Data-driven optimal structured control for unknown symmetric systems”.
In: 2020 IEEE 16th International Con-

ference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE).
IEEE.
2020, pp.
179–184.
[26] Paolo R Massenio et al.
“Data-driven optimal structured control for unknown symmetric systems”.
In: 2020 IEEE 16th International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE).
IEEE.
2020, pp.
179–184.
[27] Javad Mohammadpour and Karolos M Grigoriadis.
Efficient modeling and control of large-scale systems.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2010.
[28] David H Owens, Chris T Freeman, and Bing Chu.
“Multivariable norm optimal iterative learning control with auxiliary optimisation”.
In: International Journal of Control 86.6 (2013), pp.
1026– 1045.
[29] Richard Pates.
“Passive and reciprocal networks: From simple models to simple optimal controllers”.
In: IEEE Control Systems Magazine 42.3 (2022), pp.
73–92.
[30] Richard Pates, Carolina Bergeling, and Anders Rantzer.
“On the optimal control of relaxation systems”.
In: 2019 IEEE 58th conference on decision and control (CDC).
IEEE.
2019, pp.
6068–6073.
[31] Lev Semenovich Pontryagin.
Mathematical theory of optimal processes.
Routledge, 2018.
[32] Vasanth Reddy, Hoda Eldardiry, and Almuatazbellah Boker.
“Singular Perturbation-based Reinforcement Learning of Two-Point Boundary Optimal Control Systems”.
In: 2022 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE.
2022, pp.
3323–3328.
[33] Syed Ali Asad Rizvi and Zongli Lin.
“Adaptive dynamic programming for model-free global stabilization of control constrained continuous-time systems”.
In: IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics 52.2 (2020), pp.
1048–1060.
[34] Olga Taussky and Hans Zassenhaus.
“On the similarity transformation between a matirx and its transpose.” In: (1959).
[35] Frank Uhlig.
“Computing matrix symmetrizers, finally possible via the Huang and Nong algorithm”.
In: Linear and Multilinear Algebra 61.7 (2013), pp.
954–969.
[36] Draguna Vrabie et al.
“Adaptive optimal control for continuous-time linear systems based on policy iteration”.
In: Automatica 45.2 (2009), pp.
477– 484.
[37] Jan C Willems.
“Realization of systems with internal passivity and symmetry constraints”.
In: Journal of the Franklin Institute 301.6 (1976), pp.
605– 621.
[38] Robert L Williams, Douglas A Lawrence, et al.
Linear state-space control systems.
John Wiley & Sons, 2007.
[39] Kedi Xie, Xiao Yu, and Weiyao Lan.

“Optimal output regulation for unknown continuous-time linear systems by internal model and adaptive dynamic programming”.
In: Automatica 146 (2022), p.
110564.
