# REFERENCES

[1] D.
Y.
Yamashita, I.
Vechiu, and J.-P.
Gaubert, “A review of hierarchical control for building microgrids,” Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, vol.
118, p.
109523, 2020.
[2] L.
Shen, Q.
Cheng, Y.
Cheng, L.
Wei, and Y.
Wang, “Hierarchical control of dc micro-grid for photovoltaic ev charging station based on flywheel and battery energy storage system,” Electric Power Systems Research, vol.
179, p.
106079, 2020.
[3] L.
Hu and T.
Fan, “Hierarchical scheduling of complex dynamic supply chain,” Applied Sciences, vol.
13, no.
1, 2023.
[4] B.
Xu, Y.
Wang, Z.
Wang, H.
Jia, and Z.
Lu, “Hierarchically and cooperatively learning traffic signal control,” Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol.
35, no.
1, pp.
669–677, 2021.
[5] S.
Jing, F.
Hui, X.
Zhao, J.
Rios-Torres, and A.
J.
Khattak, “Integrated longitudinal and lateral hierarchical control of cooperative merging of connected and automated vehicles at on-ramps,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.
23, no.
12, pp.
24 248–24 262, 2022.
[6] N.
Chen, B.
van Arem, T.
Alkim, and M.
Wang, “A hierarchical model-based optimization control approach for cooperative merging by connected automated vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.
22, no.
12, pp.
7712–7725, 2021.
[7] Y.
Han, M.
Ramezani, A.
Hegyi, Y.
Yuan, and S.
Hoogendoorn, “Hierarchical ramp metering in freeways: An aggregated modeling and control approach,” Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, vol.
110, pp.
1–19, 2020.
[8] R.
Scattolini and P.
Colaneri, “Hierarchical model predictive control,” in 2007 46th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2007, pp.
4803–4808.
[9] R.
Scattolini, “A switched mpc approach to hierarchical control,” vol.
41, 07 2008, pp.
7790–7795.
[10] ——, “Architecture of distributed and hierarchical model predictive control:a review,” Journal of Process Control, vol.
19, pp.
723–731, 2009.
[11] M.
Kogel, M.
Ibrahim, C.
Kallies, and R.
Findeisen, “Safe hierarchical ¨ model predictive control and planning for autonomous systems,” 2022.
[12] T.
Bathge, M.
K ¨ ogel, S.
Cairano, and R.
Findeisen, “Contract-based ¨ predictive control for modularity in hierarchical systems,” 08 2018.
[13] K.
S.
Schweidel, P.
J.
Seiler, and M.
Arcak, “Safe-by-design plannertracker synthesis with unmodeled input dynamics,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
7, pp.
