Theorem 1. Consider the closed-loop system consisting of $\Sigma _ { e } ^ { C L }$ given by $E q .$ . (15) and the adaptation law given by $E q$ . (B.18) where the uncertainty is modelled as in Eq. (B.6). Suppose that

i) the uncertainty basis function Φ (?? (??)) is bounded

ii) $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { d } { d t } { M } \left[ \Omega \right] } \end{array}$ and $\textstyle { \frac { d } { d t } } \nabla ^ { 2 } \phi \left( { \hat { Y } } \right)$ are bounded with appropriate choice of the operator M [·] and the potential function ?? (·), respectively

then ${ \bf e } _ { I } ^ { l } ( t )  0 a s t  \infty$ . Furthermore, provided in addition to the above conditions that

iii) the richness of the feature signal Φ $\mathbf { \rho } ( x \left( t \right) )$ verifies existence $o f t _ { e x }$ such that M [Ω] attains full column rank $f o r \forall t \geq t _ { e x }$ with appropriate choice of the regressor filter $\Sigma _ { \Phi f }$ and the feature extender $\Sigma _ { \Phi e }$

iv) $\nabla ^ { 2 } \phi \left( \cdot \right) > 0$ with appropriate choice of the potential function ?? (·)

then $( { { \bf e } } _ { I } ^ { l } ( t ) , \tilde { \theta } ( t ) )  ( 0 , 0 ) a s t  \infty ,$ .

Proof. Along with the facts that $Q > 0$ and $\phi \left( \cdot \right)$ is convex, substituting Eq. (B.18) into Eq. (B.16) yields

$$
\begin{array}{l} \dot {V} = - \frac {1}{2} \mathbf {e} _ {I} ^ {l T} Q \mathbf {e} _ {I} ^ {l} - \tilde {\theta} ^ {T} \mathcal {M} [ \Omega ] ^ {T} \nabla^ {2} \phi (\hat {Y}) \tilde {Y} = - \frac {1}{2} \mathbf {e} _ {I} ^ {l T} Q \mathbf {e} _ {I} ^ {l} - \tilde {\theta} ^ {T} \mathcal {M} [ \Omega ] ^ {T} \nabla^ {2} \phi (\hat {Y}) \mathcal {M} [ \Omega ] \tilde {\theta} \tag {B.19} \\ \leq - \frac {1}{2} \mathbf {e} _ {I} ^ {l T} Q \mathbf {e} _ {I} ^ {l} \leq 0 \\ \end{array}
$$

Thus, $0 \leq V \left( t \right) \leq V \left( t _ { 0 } \right) , \forall t \geq t _ { 0 }$ , which indicates the boundedness of $\mathbf { e } _ { I } ^ { l }$ and ${ \tilde { \theta } } .$ Under condition i), the signals $\Phi _ { f }$ ??˜, Ω, Ω¤ , ??, ??¤, $\dot { \mathbf { e } } _ { I } ^ { l } = \left( A _ { e } - B _ { e } K _ { e } \right) \mathbf { e } _ { I } ^ { l } + B _ { e } b \Phi ^ { T } \tilde { \theta }$ and $\dot { \hat { \theta } }$ given by Eq. (B.18) are bounded. Also, $\ddot { V } \left( t \right)$ is bounded under condition ii). In this setting, the Barbalat’s lemma ensures that $\dot { V } ( t )  0 \mathrm { a s } t  \infty$ . Consequently, the squeeze theorem leads to the asymptotic convergence of tracking error, i.e., ${ \bf e } _ { I } ^ { l } ( t )  0$ as $t \to \infty$ .
