# REFERENCES

[1] R.
Ortega, A.
Loria, P.
J.
Nicklasson, and H.
Sira-Ramirez, Passivitybased Control of Euler-Lagrange Systems.
Springer, 1998.
[2] M.
W.
Spong, “An historical perspective on the control of robotic manipulators,” Annu.
Rev.
Control, Robot., and Auton.
Syst., vol.
5, pp.
1–31, 2022.
[3] R.
Ortega, J.
Romero, P.
Borja, and A.
Donaire, PID Passivity-Based Control of Nonlinear Systems with Applications.
Wiley, 2021.
[4] A.
S.
Bazanella, L.
Campestrini, and D.
Eckhard, Data-driven controller design: the H2 approach.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2011.
[5] A.
Yonezawa, H.
Yonezawa, S.
Yahagi, and I.
Kajiwara, “One-shot data-driven design of fractional-order pid controller considering closedloop stability: fictitious reference signal approach,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.05869, 2023.
[6] S.
Formentin and S.
M.
Savaresi, “Noniterative data-driven design of multivariable controllers,” in Proc.
IEEE 50th Conf.
Decis.
Control and Eur.
Control Conf., 2011, pp.
5106–5111.
[7] K.
van Heusden, A.
Karimi, and D.
Bonvin, “Data-driven model reference control with asymptotically guaranteed stability,” Int.
J.
Adapt.
Control, vol.
25, no.
4, pp.
331–351, 2011.
[8] S.
Yahagi and M.
Suzuki, “Direct data-driven design for a sparse feedback controller based on vrft and lasso regression,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
55, no.
25, pp.
229–234, 2022.
[9] T.
O.
de Jong, V.
Breschi, M.
Schoukens, and S.
Formentin, “Data-driven model-reference control with closed-loop stability: the output-feedback case,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
7, pp.
2431 – 2436, 2023.
[10] M.
C.
Campi, A.
Lecchini, and S.
M.
Savaresi, “Virtual reference feedback tuning: a direct method for the design of feedback controllers,” Automatica, vol.
38, no.
8, pp.
1337–1346, 2002.
[11] M.
Grant and S.
Boyd, “Graph implementations for nonsmooth convex programs,” in Recent Advances in Learning and Control, ser.
Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences, V.
Blondel, S.
Boyd, and H.
Kimura, Eds.
Springer-Verlag Limited, 2008, pp.
95–110.
[12] ——, “CVX: Matlab software for disciplined convex programming, version 2.0,” http://cvxr.com/cvx, Mar.
2014.
[13] S.
Diamond and S.
Boyd, “CVXPY: A Python-embedded modeling language for convex optimization,” J.
Mach.
Learn.
Res., vol.
17, no.
83, pp.
1–5, 2016.
[14] J.
Wang, S.
Baldi, and H.
J.
