# B. Reachability analysis results

We now consider bounding the reachable set of the system under NN control (9) over K = 4 timesteps. As above, 100 NN controllers of each architecture were generated, and intermediate bounds for the whole multi-step problem were computed for each network. A hyperplane with which to bound the reachable set was randomly generated to form the objective of problem (9). Although here we are only bounding the reachable set with a single hyperplane, in general this problem must be solved several times with multiple different objectives to form a bounded polyhedral over-approximation of the reachable set. However, the intermediate bounds only need to be computed once and can be reused for each subsequent tightening direction.

Table II shows the results for the reachability problems. Here we see a stronger impact of bounds tightening, with methods that produce a tighter relaxation having significantly faster solve times. This is due to the increased depth of the problem over multiple time steps, combined with the fact that the complexity of the MIP (9) is dominated by the involved NNs. Tighter bounds allow not only for more efficient pruning of the state space in the branch-and-bound algorithm but also for the potential ‘stabilisation’ of neuron activations to be either on or off.

We note that the MIP-OBBT bounds form an exact axisaligned bound of the reachable set, which may already be sufficient to certify the safety of the controller. Solving (9) in this case simply amounts to computing some new bounding facet of the reachable set. As such, the solve times are extremely fast but at the cost of a long bound-tightening times. Since bound tightening only needs to be performed once, but the reachability problem needs to be solved multiple times, longer bounding times might be acceptable in cases where more refined bounds of the output reachable set are required. Note that the OBBT problems are also easily parallelisable. For both architectures, the LP-OBBT methods provided a good trade-off between bound-tightening and solve times. Although α-CROWN can produce bounds equivalent to big-M LP-OBBT, for deep problems it requires more time to converge than simply solving the LP-OBBT problems.
