# References

[1] Pierre Apkarian and Dominikus Noll. “Mixed $L _ { 1 } / H _ { \infty }$ -synthesis for L∞-stability”. In: arXiv: 2201.01059 (2022).   
[2] Tao Bian and Zhong-Ping Jiang. “Value iteration and adaptive dynamic programming for data-driven adaptive optimal control design”. In: Automatica 71 (2016), pp. 348–360.   
[3] F Callier and J Willems. “Criterion for the convergence of the solution of the Riccati differential equation”. In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 26.6 (1981), pp. 1232–1242.   
[4] Yuqing Chen and David J Braun. “Iterative online optimal feedback control”. In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 66.2 (2020), pp. 566–580.   
[5] Bing Chu. “Iterative learning control for performance optimisation”. In: 2016 American Control Conference (ACC). IEEE. 2016, pp. 2129–2134.   
[6] Claudio De Persis and Pietro Tesi. “Designing experiments for data-driven control of nonlinear systems”. In: IFAC-PapersOnLine 54.9 (2021), pp. 285–290.   
[7] Claudio De Persis and Pietro Tesi. “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness”. In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 65.3 (2019), pp. 909–924.   
[8] Florian D¨orfler, Pietro Tesi, and Claudio De Persis. “On the certainty-equivalence approach to direct data-driven LQR design”. In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (2023).   
[9] Maryam Fazel et al. “Global convergence of policy gradient methods for the linear quadratic regulator”. In: International conference on machine learning. PMLR. 2018, pp. 1467–1476.   
[10] Justin Fong et al. “Dual-loop iterative optimal control for the finite horizon LQR problem with unknown dynamics”. In: Systems & Control Letters 111 (2018), pp. 49–57.   
[11] Georg Frobenius. Uber die mit einer Matrix ver- ¨ tauschbaren Matrizen. Reimer, 1910.   
[12] Weinan Gao and Zhong-Ping Jiang. “Adaptive dynamic programming and adaptive optimal output regulation of linear systems”. In: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 61.12 (2016), pp. 4164–4169.
