# REFERENCES

[1] Z.
Lin, J.
Ma, J.
Duan, S.
E.
Li, H.
Ma, B.
Cheng, and T.
H.
Lee, “Policy iteration based approximate dynamic programming toward autonomous driving in constrained dynamic environment,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.
24, no.
5, pp.
5003–5013, 2023.
[2] Z.
He, X.
Zhang, S.
Jones, S.
Hauert, D.
Zhang, and N.
F.
Lepora, “TacMMs: Tactile mobile manipulators for warehouse automation,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
8, no.
8, pp.
4729–4736, 2023.
[3] C.
Cao, H.
Zhu, Z.
Ren, H.
Choset, and J.
Zhang, “Representation granularity enables time-efficient autonomous exploration in large, complex worlds,” Science Robotics, vol.
8, no.
80, 2023.
[4] C.
Canudas de Wit and O.
Sordalen, “Exponential stabilization of mobile robots with nonholonomic constraints,” in the 30th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 1991, pp.
692–697 vol.1.
[5] A.
Astolfi, “Discontinuous control of nonholonomic systems,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
27, no.
1, pp.
37–45, 1996.
[6] D.
Kostic, S.
Adinandra, J.
Caarls, N.
van de Wouw, and H.
Nijmeijer, ´ “Collision-free tracking control of unicycle mobile robots,” in Proceedings of the 48h IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) held jointly with 28th Chinese Control Conference, 2009, pp.
5667–5672.
[7] G.
Oriolo, A.
De Luca, and M.
Vendittelli, “WMR control via dynamic feedback linearization: design, implementation, and experimental validation,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
10, no.
6, pp.
835–852, 2002.
[8] P.
Morin and C.
Samson, “Control of nonholonomic mobile robots based on the transverse function approach,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
25, no.
5, pp.
1058–1073, 2009.
[9] J.
Pliego-Jimenez, R.
Mart ´ ´ınez-Clark, C.
Cruz-Hernandez, and ´ A.
Arellano-Delgado, “Trajectory tracking of wheeled mobile robots using only cartesian position measurements,” Automatica, vol.
133, p.
109756, 2021.
[10] Z.
Jian, Z.
Lu, X.
Zhou, B.
Lan, A.
Xiao, X.
Wang, and B.
Liang, “PUTN: A plane-fitting based uneven terrain navigation framework,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2022, pp.
7160–7166.
[11] Z.
Jian, Z.
Yan, X.
Lei, Z.
Lu, B.
Lan, X.
Wang, and B.
