# REFERENCES

[1] G.
W.
E.
Council-GWEC, “Global wind report 2023,” Mar.
2023.
I   
[2] O.
P.
Mahela and A.
G.
Shaik, “Comprehensive overview of grid interfaced wind energy generation systems,” Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, vol.
57, no.
C, pp.
260–281, May 2016.
I   
[3] L.
Li, J.
Luo, and X.
Li, “A primary analysis on reactive power and voltage emergency control for large-scaled wind power centralized connected into weak grid,” Power System and Clean Energy, vol.
29, no.
1, pp.
64–69, 2013.
I   
[4] L.
Yu, H.
Sun, B.
Zhao, S.
Xu, J.
Zhang, and Z.
Li, “Short circuit ratio index analysis and critical short circuit ratio calculation of renewable energy grid-connected system,” Proceedings of the CSEE, vol.
42, no.
3, pp.
919–929, Feb.
2022.
I   
[5] D.
Sun, L.
Wu, H.
Liu, P.
Song, Y.
Li, X.
Wang, and J.
Liu, “Effect of the low voltage ride through characteristics on PMSG terminal transient voltage in weakly-synchronized gird,” Proceedings of the CSEE, vol.
41, no.
14, pp.
4777–4786, Feb.
2021.
I   
[6] H.
Liu, X.
Xie, J.
He, T.
Xu, Z.
Yu, C.
Wang, and C.
Zhang, “Subsynchronous interaction between direct-drive PMSG based wind farms and weak AC networks,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol.
32, no.
6, pp.
4708–4720, Mar.
2017.
I   
[7] M.
Xu, L.
Wu, H.
Liu, Y.
Yang, and Y.
Li, “Research on the mechanism and control methods of repeated voltage fluctuations in large-scale wind power integrartion system,” in 2021 International Conference on Power System Technology (POWERCON), Dec.
2021, pp.
1214–1219.
I   
[8] L.
Wu, W.
Zhao, M.
Xu, P.
Xu, F.
Li, Y.
Yang, and Y.
Pan, “Mechanism analysis and suppression of repeated voltage fluctuation considering fault ride through characteristics of the wind turbine,” Journal of Global Energy Interconnection, vol.
5, no.
3, pp.
290–297, May 2022.
I   
[9] T.
Lan, Y.
Jing, S.
Xu, and B.
Zhao, “Modelling and analysis of abnormal transient performance in bulk power system dominated by lowvoltage-ride-through of distributed renewables,” in 12th International Conference on Renewable Power Generation (RPG 2023).
Institution of Engineering and Technology, Oct.
2023, pp.
821–825.
I   
[10] Q.
Zhang, M.
Chen, W.
Hao, Z.
Li, and D.
Gan, “Analysis on dynamic voltage of renewable energy generators during post-fault recovery based on monotone control theory,” in 2021 International Conference on Power System Technology (POWERCON), Dec.
2021, pp.
1155–1160.
I   
[11] J.
Qi, W.
Li, M.
Zhu, and Z.
