[23] I.
Hiskens and M.
Pai, “Trajectory sensitivity analysis of hybrid systems,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Fundamental Theory and Applications, vol.
47, no.
2, pp.
204–220, Feb.
2000.
I   
[24] Z.
Hu, “Basic control theory research on DC–DC converters based on switched linear systems,” Ph.D.
dissertation, South China University of Technology, Apr.
2005.
I, II-A   
[25] G.
Zhai, X.
Xu, H.
Lin, and A.
N.
Michel, “Analysis and design of switched normal systems,” Nonlinear Analysis: Theory, Methods & Applications, vol.
65, no.
12, pp.
2248–2259, Dec.
2006.
I   
[26] D.
Liberzon and A.S.
Morse, “Basic problems in stability and design of switched systems,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, vol.
19, no.
5, pp.
59–70, Oct.
1999.
I, II-A   
[27] Z.
Sun and S.
Ge, Switched Linear Systems: Control and Design.
London: Springer, Jan.
2005.
I   
[28] M.S.
Branicky, “Multiple Lyapunov functions and other analysis tools for switched and hybrid systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
43, no.
4, pp.
475–482, Apr.
1998.
I   
[29] R.
Shorten, F.
Wirth, O.
Mason, K.
Wulff, and C.
King, “Stability criteria for switched and hybrid systems,” SIAM Review, vol.
49, no.
4, pp.
545– 592, Jan.
2007.
I   
[30] A.
Tanwani, H.
Shim, and D.
Liberzon, “Observability for switched linear systems: Characterization and observer design,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
58, no.
4, pp.
891–904, Apr.
2013.
I   
[31] G.
S.
Vicinansa and D.
Liberzon, “Controllability with a finite data-rate of switched linear systems,” in 2023 62nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Dec.
2023, pp.
3925–3930.
I   
[32] Z.
Sun, S.
S.
Ge, and T.
H.
Lee, “Controllability and reachability criteria for switched linear systems,” Automatica, vol.
38, no.
5, pp.
775–786, May 2002.
I   
[33] R.
M.
Jungers and P.
Mason, “On feedback stabilization of linear switched systems via switching signal control,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
55, no.
2, pp.
1179–1198, Jan.
2017.
I   
[34] D.
Gorges, M.
Iz ¨ ak, and S.
Liu, “Optimal control and scheduling of ´ switched systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
56, no.
1, pp.
135–140, Jan.
2011.
I   
[35] J.
Gao, “Research on theory and application for modelling and control of switching systems,” Ph.D.
dissertation, China Academy of Railway Sciences, Sep.
2003.
II-A   
[36] S.
Chen, L.
Jiang, W.
Yao, and Q.
