# REFERENCES

[1] P.
Kidger and T.
Lyons, “Universal approximation with deep narrow networks,” in Conf.
Learn.
Theory, pp.
2306–2327, 2020.
[2] S.
L.
Brunton and J.
N.
Kutz, Data-driven science and engineering: Machine learning, dynamical systems, and control.
Cambridge University Press, 2019.
[3] F.
Lewis, A.
Yesildirek, and K.
Liu, “Multilayer neural net robot controller: structure and stability proofs,” IEEE Trans.
Neural Netw., vol.
7, no.
2, pp.
388–399, 1996.
[4] F.
L.
Lewis, S.
Jagannathan, and A.
Yesildirak, Neural network control of robot manipulators and nonlinear systems.
Philadelphia, PA: CRC Press, 1998.
[5] S.
S.
Ge, C.
C.
Hang, T.
H.
Lee, and T.
Zhang, Stable Adaptive Neural Network Control.
Boston, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002.
[6] P.
M.
Patre, W.
MacKunis, K.
Kaiser, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Asymptotic tracking for uncertain dynamic systems via a multilayer neural network feedforward and RISE feedback control structure,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
53, no.
9, pp.
2180–2185, 2008.
[7] P.
Patre, S.
Bhasin, Z.
D.
Wilcox, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Composite adaptation for neural network-based controllers,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
55, no.
4, pp.
944–950, 2010.
[8] R.
Sun, M.
Greene, D.
Le, Z.
Bell, G.
Chowdhary, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Lyapunov-based real-time and iterative adjustment of deep neural networks,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
6, pp.
193–198, 2022.
[9] G.
Joshi and G.
Chowdhary, “Deep model reference adaptive control,” in Proc.
IEEE Conf.
Decis.
Control, pp.
4601–4608, 2019.
[10] G.
Joshi, J.
Virdi, and G.
Chowdhary, “Asynchronous deep model reference adaptive control,” in Conf.
Robot Learn., 2020.
[11] D.
Le, M.
Greene, W.
Makumi, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Real-time modular deep neural network-based adaptive control of nonlinear systems,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
6, pp.
476–481, 2022.
[12] O.
Patil, D.
Le, M.
Greene, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Lyapunov-derived control and adaptive update laws for inner and outer layer weights of a deep neural network,” IEEE Control Syst Lett., vol.
6, pp.
1855–1860, 2022.
[13] I.
Goodfellow, Y.
Bengio, A.
Courville, and Y.
Bengio, Deep Learning, vol.
1.
MIT press Cambridge, 2016.
[14] K.
He, X.
Zhang, S.
Ren, and J.
Sun, “Deep residual learning for image recognition,” in Proc.
IEEE Conf.
Comput.
Vis.
Pattern Recognit., pp.
770–778, 2016.
[15] M.
Hardt and T.
Ma, “Identity matters in deep learning,” Int.
Conf.
Learn.
Represent., 2017.
[16] K.
Nar and S.
