Li, “Impact of low voltage ride-through behavior of direct-driven wind turbine on grid-connected point voltage and optimal control,” Automation of Electric Power Systems, vol.
47, no.
7, pp.
105–113, Apr.
2023.
I   
[12] H.
Kong, S.
Hou, Y.
Zhao, J.
Yang, Y.
Li, J.
Wang, and A.
Xue, “Bifurcation analysis and criteria of voltage oscillation induced by low voltage ride through control in onshore wind farms,” Proceedings of the CSEE, pp.
1–20, 2023.
I   
[13] H.
Saadat, Power System Analysis, 3rd ed.
New York: PSA Publishing LLC, Jan.
2011.
I   
[14] J.
D.
Glover, M.
S.
Sarma, T.
Overbye, and A.
Birchfield, Power System Analysis and Design, 7th ed.
Boston: Cengage Learning, Jan.
2022.
I   
[15] Technical Specification for Connecting Wind Farm to Power System—Part 1: Onshore Wind Power, State Administration for Market Regulation and Standardization Administration Std.
GB/T 19 963.1- 2021, 2021.
I, II-C2, VI   
[16] X.
Fan, “Modeling, simulation and coordinate optimal control for variable speed constant frequency wind power generation system,” Ph.D.
dissertation, North China Electric Power University (Beijing), May 2010.
I   
[17] A.
Levis, “Challenges to control: A collective view–report of the workshop held at the university of santa clara on september 18-19, 1986,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
32, no.
4, pp.
275–285, Apr.
1987.
I   
[18] M.
Athans, “Command and control (c2) theory: A challenge to control science,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
32, no.
4, pp.
286–293, Apr.
1987.
I   
[19] I.
Hiskens and M.
Pai, “Hybrid systems view of power system modelling,” in 2000 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), vol.
2, May 2000, pp.
228–231.
I   
[20] X.
Xu, “Analysis and design of switched systems,” Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Notre Dame, Jul.
2001.
I   
[21] L.
Yu and W.
Zhang, Networked Control System Analysis and Design - Switched System Processing Methods.
Beijing: Science Press, Mar.
2012.
I   
[22] D.
Liberzon, Switching in Systems and Control.
Boston: Birkhauser, Jun.
2003.
I, 1, 2
