Liniger, and M.
N.
Zeilinger, “Cautious NMPC with Gaussian process dynamics for autonomous miniature race cars,” in 2018 European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2018, pp.
1341–1348.
[20] E.
Snelson and Z.
Ghahramani, “Sparse Gaussian processes using pseudo-inputs,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
18, 2005.
[21] J.
Quinonero-Candela, A.
Girard, and C.
E.
Rasmussen, “Prediction at an uncertain input for Gaussian processes and relevance vector machines-application to multiple-step ahead time-series forecasting,” Technical University of Denmark, DTU: Informatics and Mathematical Modelling, Tech.
Rep., 2003.
[22] M.
P.
Deisenroth, Efficient Reinforcement Learning using Gaussian processes.
KIT Scientific Publishing, 2010.
[23] H.-A.
Langåker, “Cautious MPC-based control with machine learning,” Master’s thesis, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 2018.
[24] C.
J.
Ostafew, A.
P.
Schoellig, T.
D.
Barfoot, and J.
Collier, “Learning-based nonlinear model predictive control to improve vision-based mobile robot path tracking,” Journal of Field Robotics, vol.
33, no.
1, pp.
133–152, 2016.
[25] I.
Sadeghzadeh, M.
Abdolhosseini, and Y.
Zhang, “Payload drop application using an unmanned quadrotor helicopter based on gain-scheduled PID and model predictive control,” Unmanned Systems, vol.
2, no.
01, pp.
39–52, 2014.
[26] J.-J.
Slotine and W.
Li, Applied Nonlinear Control.
Prentice Hall Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1991.
[27] M.
Abdolhosseini, Y.
M.
Zhang, and C.
A.
Rabbath, “An efficient model predictive control scheme for an unmanned quadrotor helicopter,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
70, pp.
27–38, 2013.
[28] J.
Wang, Y.
V.
Pant, L.
Zhao, M.
Antkiewicz, and K.
Czarnecki, “Enhancing safety in mixed traffic: Learning-based modeling and efficient control of autonomous and human-driven vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2024.
[29] A.
Coppola, D.
G.
Lui, A.
Petrillo, and S.
Santini, “Eco-driving control architecture for platoons of uncertain heterogeneous nonlinear connected autonomous electric vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.
23, no.
12, pp.
24 220–24 234, 2022.
[30] A.
Girard, C.
Rasmussen, and R.
Murray-Smith, “Gaussian process priors with uncertainty inputs: multiple-step-ahead prediction,” Technical Report TR-2002–119, Dept.

of Computer Science, 2002.
[31] A.
Girard, C.
Rasmussen, J.
Q.
Candela, and R.
Murray-Smith, “Gaussian process priors with uncertain inputs application to multiple-step ahead time series forecasting,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
15, 2002.
[32] K.
B.
Petersen and M.
S.
Pedersen, “The matrix cookbook,” 2012, version 20121115.
[Online].
Available: http://www2.compute.dtu.dk/pubdb/pubs/3274-full.html
