We experiment with a Dissipative RINN with a state size, $n _ { k } .$ of 2, and a nonlinearity size, $n _ { \phi }$ , of 16. The controller is initialized with an LTI controller as described in Section 5.1. We use a learning rate of $1 0 ^ { - 5 }$ for this model to improve stability during training. We compare the Dissipative RINN with the following controllers:

• Standard RINN: This model has the same state and nonlinearity sizes as the Dissipative RINN. After each training step, $\| D _ { k v w } \| _ { \infty }$ is reduced to be less than 1 to guarantee well-posedness [4]. We use a learning rate of $5 \cdot 1 0 ^ { - 5 }$ for this model.   
• LTI: This model has the same state size as the Dissipative RINN. It is initialized using the same method as used for the Dissipative RINN, and is trained as described in Section 5.1. We use a learning rate of $5 \cdot 1 0 ^ { - 5 }$ for this model.   
• Fully Connected Neural Network: The fully connected neural network has two hidden layers, both with size 19, to give a total number of parameters roughly the same as the two RINN controllers. We use a learning rate of $5 \cdot 1 0 ^ { - 5 }$ for this model.

The results of performance vs. number of training environment steps sampled is plotted in Figure 7, with each controller trained thrice and the mean and standard deviations taken. The fully connected feed forward neural network achieves the highest reward. The Standard RINN achieves the next highest, closely followed by the Dissipative RINN. The LTI controller achieves the least reward. In this example, the Dissipative RINN demonstrates a significant performance advantage over the LTI controller, while maintaining the same robustness guarantee, but does not quite achieve the performance of the unconstrained feed forward neural network.
