# VII. CONCLUSION

This paper focuses on a new type of voltage oscillation phenomenon observed in weak grid-connected wind power systems, which is induced by the wind turbine repeatedly entering and exiting LVRT. Switched system theory is introduced for dynamic modeling, mechanism elucidation, and stability analysis of the repeated LVRT process. Specifically, a novel WT-GSC switched system model considering the external connection impedance and internal control dynamics of the wind turbine is constructed, which can effectively characterize the evolution dynamics of various electrical quantities. Moreover, the mechanism underlying this voltage oscillation phenomenon can be explained as the repeated switching of the switched system trajectory between the normal operation and LVRT subsystems under reactive power switching control. Subsequently, the stability analysis and assessment methods are proposed based on the common Lyapunov function, providing a criterion and an index for switched system stability analysis. Furthermore, in order to efficiently enhance system stability, the Sobol’ global sensitivity analysis method is adopted to identify the dominant parameters, which are then optimized via the PSO algorithm to find the best parameter group. In the case study of a modified IEEE 39-bus test system on the CloudPSS platform, the effectiveness of the proposed WT-GSC switched system model, the stability analysis and assessment methods, and the sensitivity analysis and parameter optimization approaches are verified.
