| Number of Environment Steps | D-RINN | FCNN | S-RINN | LTI |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0.0 | 500 | 1000 | 500 | 500 |
| 0.2 | 1000 | 2500 | 1500 | 500 |
| 0.4 | 1500 | 2800 | 2000 | 600 |
| 0.6 | 1800 | 2900 | 2200 | 700 |
| 0.8 | 1900 | 2950 | 2300 | 800 |
| 1.0 | 1800 | 2900 | 2400 | 900 |
</details>

Fig. 7. Evaluation reward vs. number of training environment steps for the Dissipative Recurrent Implicit Neural Network (D-RINN, our method), Fully Connected Neural Network (FCNN), Standard RINN (S-RINN), and linear time-invariant (LTI) controllers on the flexible rod on a cart. The solid line represents the mean, and the shaded region represents 1 standard deviation. The reward is upper bounded by 4000, and lower bounded by 0. Higher reward indicates a combination of lower control effort and the state of the flexible rod on a cart being close to 0. The Dissipative RINN and LTI controllers both guarantee an $L _ { 2 }$ gain of at most 0.99 from a disturbance in the control input to the state for the uncertain rigid model.

the flexible model. See Figure 6 for a Bode magnitude plot of $G _ { r } ( s ) , G _ { f } ( s )$ , and the bounds on $\begin{array} { r } { G _ { r } ( s ) + \frac { 1 } { s } \Delta ( s ) } \end{array}$ .

The norm-bound on $\Delta$ is characterized with a quadratic constraint of $M _ { \Delta _ { p } } = 5 \left\lceil \begin{array} { c c } { { 0 . 1 ^ { 2 } } } & { { 0 } } \\ { { 0 } } & { { - 1 } } \end{array} \right\rceil$ . The scaling factor of 5 is the λ value used in Lemma 1. This affects the feasible set, t not the norm-bound. ese controllers is set to $0 . 5 \left[ \begin{array} { c c } { 0 . \dot { 9 } \dot { 9 } } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { - I } \end{array} \right]$ ate in synthesizing, constraining the $L _ { 2 }$ rigid model state being less than or equal to 0.99. Scaling the supply rate does not change the $L _ { 2 }$ gain property. We use a $t _ { R S }$ value of 1.0 (in (25)) and a backoff factor of $\beta = 1 . 0 5$ to tune suboptimality of the projection (as described in Section 4.3).

We simulate the controllers and plant with a time step of 0.001 seconds, and train with a time horizon of 2 seconds. The reward for each time step is e $\cdot \mathrm { x p } ( - \| x _ { f } \| ^ { 2 } ) +$ $\exp ( - u ^ { 2 } )$ . Initial conditions are sampled uniformly at random with $x _ { b } \in [ - 1 , 1 ] \mathrm { ~ m } , h \in [ - \bar { 0 . 4 4 } , 0 . 4 4 ]$ m, ˙xb ∈ $[ - 0 . 2 5 , 0 . 2 5 ] \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s } .$ , and $\dot { h } \in [ - 2 , 2 ] \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { s }$ . The control input is limited (saturated) to remain in the interval [−20, 20].
