# For ever time step do

1: Measure the current state $\bar { x } _ { k }$   
2: Compute $z _ { k }$ using the mapping in (44)   
3: Solve the optimization problem in (48)-(54) and get $\{ \nu ^ { * } ( k + 1 | k ) , \nu ^ { * } ( k + 2 | k ) , \dots , K x ^ { * } ( k + N | k ) \}$   
4: Apply the first control input $\nu = \nu ^ { * } ( k + 1 | k )$   
5: Compute the control signals $u _ { 1 } = \nu _ { 1 } \cos ( x _ { 3 } ) + \nu _ { 2 } \sin ( x _ { 3 } )$

$\begin{array} { r } { \left\{ u _ { 2 } = - \nu _ { 1 } \frac { \sin ( x _ { 3 } ) } { \zeta } + \nu _ { 2 } \frac { \cos ( x _ { 3 } ) } { \zeta } \quad \zeta > \zeta _ { t h r e s h o l d } \right. } \end{array}$ ) + ??2 cos( ??3 ) and $u _ { 2 }$ as ??2 = 0 $\zeta \leq \zeta _ { t h r e s h o l d }$

end For

is tested in Fig. 4.(d) against noisy feedback corrupted with Gaussian noise with zero mean and 0.05 variance. The case of corrupted feedback (demonstrated in the red line) can still avoid the obstacle with some deterioration compared to the nominal case. Fig. 5 depicts the linear velocity of the robot with different values of ?? and $\gamma .$ .

The distance between the robot and the obstacle is shown in Fig. 6 using different values of $\gamma$ and ?? in both cases of using the Euclidean distance constraint and the proposed scheme. The real-time implementation of the QCQP problem needs to be solved within strict time constraints with respect to the sampling time. Violation of the time constraints could degrade the output performance and/or stability measures. To verify that, Fig. 7 shows the computational time for solving the QCQP problem, where the computational time doesn’t exceed the sampling time $T _ { s } = 0 . 0 5$ . Finally in Fig. 8, the convergence of the states is shown, where the asymptotic convergence in Theorem 1 is verified. In case of disturbance(demonstrated in dashed lines in Fig. 8) the states converge to a neighborhood of the origin.
