[25] P. Tabuada and B. Gharesifard, “Universal approximation power of deep residual neural networks via nonlinear control theory,” in Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., 2020.   
[26] F. L. Lewis, A. Yegildirek, and K. Liu, “Multilayer neural-net robot controller with guaranteed tracking performance,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw., vol. 7, pp. 388–399, Mar. 1996.   
[27] A. M. Annaswamy, F. P. Skantze, and A.-P. Loh, “Adaptive control of continuous time systems with convex/concave parametrization,” Automatica, vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 33–49, 1998.   
[28] A. Kojic, A. M. Annaswamy, A.-P. Loh, and R. Lozano, “Adaptive ´ control of a class of nonlinear systems with convex/concave parameterization,” Syst. Control Lett., vol. 37, no. 5, pp. 267–274, 1999.   
[29] W. Lin and C. Qian, “Adaptive control of nonlinearly parameterized systems: the smooth feedback case,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 47, no. 8, pp. 1249–1266, 2002.   
[30] W. Lin and C. Qian, “Adaptive control of nonlinearly parameterized systems: a nonsmooth feedback framework,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 47, pp. 757–774, May 2002.   
[31] Z. Qu, R. A. Hull, and J. Wang, “Globally stabilizing adaptive control design for nonlinearly-parameterized systems,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 51, pp. 1073–1079, June 2006.   
[32] S. B. Roy, S. Bhasin, and I. N. Kar, “Robust gradient-based adaptive control of nonlinearly parametrized plants,” IEEE Control Syst. Lett., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 352–357, 2017.   
[33] N. Fischer, R. Kamalapurkar, and W. E. Dixon, “LaSalle-Yoshizawa corollaries for nonsmooth systems,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 58, pp. 2333–2338, Sep. 2013.   
[34] F. H. Clarke, Optimization and nonsmooth analysis. SIAM, 1990.   
[35] D. Shevitz and B. Paden, “Lyapunov stability theory of nonsmooth systems,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 39 no. 9, pp. 1910–1914, 1994.   
[36] P. Ioannou and J. Sun, Robust Adaptive Control. Prentice Hall, 1996.   
[37] E. Griffis, O. Patil, Z. Bell, and W. E. Dixon, “Lyapunov-based long short-term memory (Lb-LSTM) neural network-based control,” IEEE Control Syst. Lett., vol. 7, pp. 2976–2981, 2023.
