# REFERENCES

[1] A.
D.
Ames, X.
Xu, J.
W.
Grizzle, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier function based quadratic programs for safety critical systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
62, no.
8, pp.
3861–3876, 2017.
[2] T.-H.
Tsai and C.-H.
Yao, “A robust tracking algorithm for a humanfollowing mobile robot,” IET Image Processing, vol.
15, no.
3, pp.
786– 796, 2021.
[3] Y.
Kanayama, Y.
Kimura, F.
Miyazaki, and T.
Noguchi, “A stable tracking control method for an autonomous mobile robot,” in Proceedings., IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 1990, pp.
384–389 vol.1.
[4] G.
Oriolo, A.
De Luca, and M.
Vendittelli, “Wmr control via dynamic feedback linearization: design, implementation, and experimental validation,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
10, no.
6, pp.
835–852, 2002.
[5] T.-C.
Lee, K.-T.
Song, C.-H.
Lee, and C.-C.
Teng, “Tracking control of unicycle-modeled mobile robots using a saturation feedback controller,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
9, no.
2, pp.
305–318, 2001.
[6] M.
Rubagotti, A.
Estrada, F.
Castanos, A.
Ferrara, and L.
Fridman, “Integral sliding mode control for nonlinear systems with matched and unmatched perturbations,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
56, no.
11, pp.
2699–2704, 2011.
[7] A.
Ferrara and M.
Rubagotti, “Second-order sliding-mode control of a mobile robot based on a harmonic potential field,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
2, no.
9, pp.
807–818, 2008.
[8] C.-L.
Hwang and H.-M.
Wu, “Trajectory tracking of a mobile robot with frictions and uncertainties using hierarchical sliding-mode underactuated control,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
7, no.
7, pp.
952–965, 2013.
[9] M.
Liu, K.
Wu, and Y.
Wu, “Finite-time tracking control of disturbed non-holonomic systems with input saturation and state constraints: Theory and experiment,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
8, no.
2, 2023.
[10] S.
Yoo, “Adaptive tracking control for a class of wheeled mobile robots with unknown skidding and slipping,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
4, no.
10, pp.
2109–2119, 2010.
[11] M.
Zambelli, Y.
Karayiannidis, and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “Posture regulation for unicycle-like robots with prescribed performance guarantees,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
9, no.
2, pp.
192–202, 2015.
[12] C.
E.
Garcia, D.
M.
Prett, and M.
