# References

[1] A. Beck and M. Teboulle. A fast iterative shrinkage-thresholding algorithm for linear inverse problems. SIAM J. Imaging Sci., 2(1):183–202, 2009.   
[2] V. Cerone, S. M. Fosson, and D. Regruto. Fast sparse optimization via adaptive thresholding. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 56(2):10390–10395, 2023.

[3] V. Cerone, S. M. Fosson, D. Regruto, and A. Salam. Sparse learning with concave regularization: relaxation of the irrepresentable condition. In IEEE Conf. Decis. Control (CDC), pages 396–401, 2020.   
[4] I. Daubechies, M. Defrise, and C. De Mol. An iterative thresholding algorithm for linear inverse problems with a sparsity constraint. Comm. Pure Appl. Math., 57(11):1413–1457, 2004.   
[5] Hamza Fawzi, Paulo Tabuada, and Suhas Diggavi. Secure estimation and control for cyber-physical systems under adversarial attacks. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 59(6):1454–1467, 2014.   
[6] Simon Foucart and Holger Rauhut. A Mathematical Introduction to Compressive Sensing. Springer, New York, 2013.   
[7] J. J. Fuchs. On sparse representations in arbitrary redundant bases. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, 50(6):1341–1344, 2004.   
[8] J. J. Fuchs. Recovery of exact sparse representations in the presence of bounded noise. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, 51(10):3601–3608, 2005.   
[9] T. Hastie, R. Tibshirani, and M. Wainwright. Statistical Learning with Sparsity: The Lasso and Generalizations. CRC press, 2nd edition, 2015.   
[10] ”Imhotep-SMT”. GitHub repository. 2015.   
[11] Ralph Langner. Stuxnet: Dissecting a cyberwarfare weapon. IEEE Security & Privacy, 9(3):49–51, 2011.   
[12] Xuqiang Lei, Guanghui Wen, Wei Xing Zheng, and Junjie Fu. Security strategy against location-varying sparse attack on distributed state monitoring. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, pages 1–8, 2023.   
[13] An-Yang Lu and Guang-Hong Yang. A polynomial-time algorithm for the secure state estimation problem under sparse sensor attacks via state decomposition technique. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 68(12):7451–7465, 2023.   
[14] Yanwen Mao, Aritra Mitra, Shreyas Sundaram, and Paulo Tabuada. On the computational complexity of the secure state-reconstruction problem. Automatica, 136:110083, 2022.   
[15] Yanwen Mao and Paulo Tabuada. Decentralized secure state-tracking in multiagent systems. IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, 68(7):4053–4064, 2023.
