# References

[1] Z. Xia and J. A. Abu Qahouq, "State-of-Charge Balancing of Lithium-Ion Batteries With Stateof-Health Awareness Capability," IEEE Trans. Ind. App., vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 673-684, Jan.-Feb. 2021.   
[2] R. Heydari, M. Gheisarnejad, M. H. Khooban, T. Dragicevic and F. Blaabjerg, "Robust and Fast Voltage-Source-Converter (VSC) Control for Naval Shipboard Microgrids," IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 34, no. 9, pp. 8299-8303, Sept. 2019.   
[3] M. A. Hassan, E. -p. Li, X. Li, T. Li, C. Duan and S. Chi, "Adaptive Passivity-Based Control of dc–dc Buck Power Converter With Constant Power Load in DC Microgrid Systems," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 2029-2040, Sept. 2019.   
[4] W. Dong, S. Li, X. Fu, Z. Li, M. Fairbank and Y. Gao, "Control of a Buck DC/DC Converter Using Approximate Dynamic Programming and Artificial Neural Networks," in IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, vol. 68, no. 4, pp. 1760-1768, April 2021.   
[5] M. S. Sadabadi, "A Distributed Control Strategy for Parallel DC-DC Converters," in IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1231-1236, Oct. 2021.   
[6] T. Kobaku, R. Jeyasenthil, S. Sahoo, R. Ramchand and T. Dragicevic, "Quantitative Feedback Design-Based Robust PID Control of Voltage Mode Controlled DC-DC Boost Converter," in IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 286-290, Jan. 2021.   
[7] Y. Li, B. Zhao, J. Wan, Z. Yang, F. Liu and M. Shahidehpour, "A Multi objective Adaptive Switching Control for Bidirectional DC/DC Converter," in IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 1619-1628, April 2024.   
[8] J. Rong, C. Ning and J. Wang, "Design and Implementation of Twisting Sliding Mode Control for DC-DC Boost Converter Using Nonlinear Disturbance Observer," 2022 34th Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC), Hefei, China, 2022, pp. 3689-3694.   
[9] S. K. Pandey, S. L. Patil, D. Ginoya, et al, "Robust control of mismatched buck DC–DC converters by PWM-based sliding mode control schemes," Control Engineering Practice, vol. 84, pp. 183-193, 2019.
