In this problem, $w = [ v , a ] ^ { T }$ (or equivalently, $w = [ \omega , T _ { d } ] ^ { T } )$ is the generalized disturbance. Observation o is just w and its history. A predictor tries to forecast future w, that is, the future velocity and acceleration. The future velocity and acceleration is dependent on various factors including the driving style, the road and traffic condition. In the proposed analysis framework, these factors are considered in the environment dynamics equations in (6). The hidden prediction state s associated with this environment dynamic system may be a high-dimensional vector. But the exact formulas associated with the environment and the hidden prediction state are not needed for applying predictive optimal control.

Four types of deterministic predictors and two types of stochastic predictors are designed.

(D1) Constant velocity predictor.

$$a _ {k + 1} = 0. \tag {46}$$

(D2) Linear decay acceleration predictor.

$$a _ {k + 1} = a _ {k} - \frac {a _ {0}}{\gamma}, \tag {47}$$

where $\gamma$ is a constant parameter.

(D3) Exponential decay acceleration predictor.

$$a _ {k + 1} = \lambda a _ {k}, \tag {48}$$

where $\lambda \in ( 0 , 1 )$ is a constant parameter.

(D4) Deterministic Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) predictor,

$$\bar {v} ^ {+} = f _ {L S T M} (\bar {v} ^ {-}), \tag {49}$$

where $\bar { v } ^ { + } = [ v _ { k + 1 } , v _ { k + 2 } , v _ { k + 3 } , v _ { k + 4 } , v _ { k + 5 } ] ^ { T } , \bar { v } ^ { - } = [ v _ { k - 5 } , v _ { k - 4 } , v _ { k - 3 } , v _ { k - 2 } , v _ { k - 1 } , v _ { k } ] ^ { T } .$ , and $f _ { L S T M } ( \cdot )$ is an LSTM network. The network is composed of an LSTM layer and a fully connected layer, where the LSTM layer is $6 \times 1 2 8$ and the fully connected layer is $1 2 8 \times 5$ . The LSTM network is trained using about six thousand vehicle trajectories from NGSIM data.

(S1) Zero-mean stochastic acceleration predictor.

$$a _ {k + 1} \sim \mathcal {N} (0, \sigma^ {2}), \tag {50}$$

where σ is a constant, N stands for normal distribution.

(S2) Stochastic linear decay acceleration predictor.

$$\mu_ {k + 1} = a _ {0} - (k + 1) \frac {a _ {0}}{\gamma}, \tag {51}a _ {k + 1} \sim \mathcal {N} (\mu_ {k + 1}, \sigma^ {2}),$$

where σ and $\gamma$ are constants.
