# 15.4.4 Relaxing the Positive Real Condition

For Algorithms I and II, it is possible to relax the strictly positive real (SPR) conditions taking in account that:

1. The disturbance (input to the system) is a broadband signal.5   
2. Most of the adaptation algorithms work with a low adaptation gain.

Under these two assumptions, the behavior of the algorithm can be well described by the “averaging theory” developed in Anderson et al. (1986) and Ljung and Söderström (1983) (see also Sect. 4.2). When using the averaging approach, the basic assumption of a slow adaptation holds for small adaptation gains (constant and scalar in Anderson et al. (1986) with $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t ) = 0 , \lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) = 1$ ; matrix and time decreasing asymptotically in Ljung and Söderström (1983) and Sect. 4.2 with $\begin{array} { r } { \operatorname* { l i m } _ { t  \infty } \lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) = 1 , \lambda _ { 2 } ( t ) = \lambda _ { 2 } > 0 ) } \end{array}$ .

In the context of averaging, the basic condition for stability is that:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \lim _ {N \rightarrow \infty} \frac {1}{N} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} \Phi (t) H ^ {\prime} \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) \Phi^ {T} (t) \\ = \frac {1}{2} \int_ {- \pi} ^ {\pi} \Phi (e ^ {j \omega}) [ H ^ {\prime} (e ^ {j \omega}) + H ^ {\prime} (e ^ {- j \omega}) ] \Phi^ {T} (e ^ {- j \omega}) d \omega > 0 \tag {15.79} \\ \end{array}
$$

be a positive definite matrix $( \boldsymbol { \phi } ( \boldsymbol { e } ^ { j \omega } )$ is the Fourier transform of $\boldsymbol { \varPhi } ( t ) )$ . One can view (15.79) as weighted energy of the observation vector $\phi$ . Of course the SPR sufficient condition upon $H ^ { \prime } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ (see (15.63)) allows to satisfy this condition. However, in the averaging context it is only needed that (15.79) is true which allows that $H ^ { \prime }$ be non positive real in a limited frequency band. Expression (15.79) can be rewritten as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{l} \int_ {- \pi} ^ {\pi} \Phi (e ^ {j \omega}) [ H ^ {\prime} + H ^ {\prime *} ] \Phi^ {T} (e ^ {- j \omega}) d \omega \\ = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {r} \int_ {\alpha_ {i}} ^ {\alpha_ {i} + \Delta_ {i}} \Phi (e ^ {j \omega}) [ H ^ {\prime} + H ^ {\prime *} ] \Phi^ {T} (e ^ {- j \omega}) d \omega \\ - \sum_ {j = 1} ^ {p} \int_ {\beta_ {j}} ^ {\beta_ {j} + \Delta_ {j}} \Phi (e ^ {j \omega}) [ \bar {H} ^ {\prime} + \bar {H} ^ {\prime *} ] \Phi^ {T} (e ^ {- j \omega}) d \omega > 0 \tag {15.80} \\ \end{array}
$$
