# 14.5 Stability Analysis

We will make the following assumptions:

(H1) The available plant model $( \hat { A } , \hat { B } )$ is identical to the true plant model (i.e., $\hat { A } = A , \hat { B } = B \bar { ) }$ and the plant delay is known.   
(H2) The model of the disturbance has poles on the unit circle.   
(H3) The order of the denominator of the disturbance model $n _ { D _ { P } }$ is known.

Lemma 14.2 Under hypotheses (H1), (H2) and (H3), for the adaptive regulation system described by (14.32) and using the parametric adaptation algorithm given by (14.37) through (14.41) one has:

$$\lim _ {t \to \infty} \varepsilon (t + 1) = 0 \tag {14.44}\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} [ \hat {\theta} (t + 1) - \theta ] ^ {T} \phi (t) = 0 \tag {14.45}\lim _ {t \to \infty} \frac {[ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) ] ^ {2}}{1 + \phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \phi (t)} = 0 \tag {14.46}\| \phi (t) \| \text { is bounded } \tag {14.47}\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) = 0 \tag {14.48}$$

for any initial conditions $\hat { \theta } ( 0 ) , \varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( 0 ) , F ( 0 )$

Proof Equation (14.32) combined with (14.37) through (14.40) lead to an equivalent feedback system (by defining $\tilde { \theta } ( t + 1 ) = \hat { \theta } ( t + 1 ) - \theta )$ which is formed by a strictly passive linear block (a unit gain) in feedback with a time-varying passive block and with $x ( t + 1 )$ as an external input. However, $x ( t + 1 )$ is a vanishing signal (see Lemma 14.1) and does not influence the asymptotic behavior of $\varepsilon ( t + 1 )$ . Equation (14.32) combined with equations. Equations (14.37) through (14.40) (with $x ( t + 1 )$ a vanishing signal) have the form considered in Theorem 3.2 and therefore this theorem can be used to analyze the system. Applying the above mentioned theorem one concludes that (14.44), (14.45) and (14.46) hold.

Under Assumption (H1) the signal $w ( t )$ can be written:

$$w (t) = A (q ^ {- 1}) p (t) = \frac {A (q ^ {- 1}) N _ {p} (q ^ {- 1})}{D _ {p} (q ^ {- 1})} \delta (t) \tag {14.49}$$

Since $D _ { P }$ has the roots on the unit circle and the coefficients of A and $N _ { P }$ are bounded one concludes that $p ( t )$ and respectively, $w ( t )$ are bounded.

The components of the regressor vector $\phi ( t )$ have the form:

$$w _ {2} (t - i) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1})}{P (q ^ {- 1})} w (t - i) \tag {14.50}$$

Since the polynomial P is asymptotically stable by design, one concludes that $w _ { 2 } ( t - i )$ and $\phi ( t )$ are bounded. Therefore from (14.46) one concludes that (14.48) holds which ends the proof.7
