5.
Bak, S.: nnenum: Verification of relu neural networks with optimized abstraction refinement.
In: Dutle, A., Moscato, M.M., Titolo, L., Muñoz, C.A., Perez, I.
(eds.) NASA Formal Methods.
pp.
19–36.
Springer International Publishing, Cham (2021)   
6.
Brix, C., Müller, M.N., Bak, S., Johnson, T.T., Liu, C.: First three years of the international verification of neural networks competition (vnn-comp).
International Journal on Software Tools for Technology Transfer 25(3), 329–339 (2023)   
7.
Eykholt, K., Evtimov, I., Fernandes, E., Li, B., Rahmati, A., Xiao, C., Prakash, A., Kohno, T., Song, D.: Robust physical-world attacks on deep learning visual classification.
In: 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
pp.
1625–1634 (2018).
https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2018.00175   
8.
Feiyang, C., Bak, S.: Scalable surrogate verification of image-based neural network control systems using composition and unrolling (under review) (2024)   
9.
Fischetti, M., Jo, J.: Deep neural networks and mixed integer linear optimization.
Constraints 23(3), 296–309 (Apr 2018).
https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10601-018-9285-6, http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10601-018-9285-6   
10.
Frehse, G., Althoff, M.
(eds.): Proceedings of 10th International Workshop on Applied Verification of Continuous and Hybrid Systems (ARCH23), EPiC Series in Computing, vol.
96.
EasyChair (2023)   
11.
Fulton, N., Platzer, A.: Safe reinforcement learning via formal methods: Toward safe control through proof and learning.
In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
vol.
32 (2018)   
12.
Fulton, N., Platzer, A.: Verifiably safe off-model reinforcement learning.
In: International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems.
pp.
413–430.
Springer (2019)   
13.
Gnanasambandam, A., Sherman, A.M., Chan, S.H.: Optical adversarial attack.
In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision.
pp.
92–101 (2021)   
14.
Goodfellow, I.J., Shlens, J., Szegedy, C.: Explaining and harnessing adversarial examples.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6572 (2014)   
15.
Guo, X., Zhou, Z., Zhang, Y., Katz, G., Zhang, M.: Occrob: efficient smt-based occlusion robustness verification of deep neural networks.
In: International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems.
pp.
208–226.
Springer (2023)   
16.
