Let us investigate the impact of the safeguarding control action based on the interpretation provided in Subsection III-D. For the initial condition $\begin{array} { r l r } { { \pmb x } ( 0 ) } & { { } = } & { [ 7 , 7 ] ^ { \mathrm { T } } } \end{array}$ , Fig. 2(d) displays the system’s energy and the energy of the augmented state represented by the blue solid line and the black dotted line, respectively. This figure illustrates that in the proposed approach, the energy stored in the augmented state is utilized by the main system once the system trajectory enters the risky set for the first time, which occurs at approximately $t \approx 0 . 1 1 8$ seconds in this simulation. From this point until the first reset at $t ~ \approx ~ 0 . 2 4 6$ seconds, the energy in the augmented state diminishes, allowing the sliding manifold to expand. After four resets, the system trajectory enters the set ⌦ at approximately $t \approx 0 . 7 7 5$ seconds, and the stored energy in whole system tends to zero.

To mitigate the occurrence of chattering, one possible approach is to substitute the signum function in (??) with its continuous approximation functions, such as the saturation function sat $( s , \epsilon )$ . While the fulfillment of the safety constraints is ensured as the safety-induced inequality (21) remains maintained, these approximations have adverse impacts on the system performance since the inequality $\dot { V } ( s , z ) ~ \leq$ $- g _ { 0 } \beta _ { 0 } \| \pmb { s } \| _ { 1 } - \lambda \sqrt { | \boldsymbol { z } | }$ is not always be satisfied. The analysis presented in [1] can be employed to demonstrate that the trajectories of the system will converge to an invariant set. By selecting a sufficiently small value for $\epsilon ,$ this invariant set can be made arbitrarily small. Figs. 4(a) and (b) show the results of repeating the above simulations when $\mathrm { s i g n } ( s _ { i } )$ is replaced with sat $\left( { { s _ { i } } , 0 . 5 } \right) \ ( i \ = \ 1 , 2 )$ . These figures demonstrate that although chattering is eliminated in the control signals and the safety requirement is satisfied, the system states do not converge to the origin. Instead, they reach a set in the vicinity of the origin.
