# 14.5 Stability Analysis

where $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) , \lambda _ { 2 } ( t )$ allow to obtain various profiles for the evolution of the adaption gain $F ( t )$ (for details see Chap. 3).

In order to implement this methodology for disturbance rejection (see Fig. 14.3), it is supposed that the plant model $\frac { z ^ { - d } B ( z ^ { - 1 } ) } { A ( z ^ { - 1 } ) }$ z−d B(z−1) is known (identified) and that it exists a controller $[ R _ { 0 } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) , S _ { 0 } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) ]$ which verifies the desired specifications in the absence of the disturbance. One also supposes that the degree $n _ { Q }$ of the polynomial $\boldsymbol { Q } ( \boldsymbol { z } ^ { - 1 } )$ is fixed, $n _ { Q } = n _ { D _ { p } } - 1$ , i.e., the structure of the disturbance is known.

The following procedure is applied at each sampling time for adaptive operation:

1. Get the measured output $y ( t + 1 )$ and the applied control $u ( t )$ to compute $w ( t + 1 )$ using (14.35).   
2. Compute $w _ { 1 } ( t + 1 )$ and $w _ { 2 } ( t )$ using (14.34) and (14.30) with P given by (14.15).   
3. Estimate the Q-polynomial using the parametric adaptation algorithm (14.37)– (14.41).   
4. Compute and apply the control (see Fig. 14.3):

$$S _ {0} (q ^ {- 1}) u (t + 1) = - R _ {0} (q ^ {- 1}) y (t + 1) - \hat {Q} (t + 1, q ^ {- 1}) w (t + 1) \tag {14.42}$$

In the adaptive operation one uses in general an adaptation gain updating with variable forgetting factor $\lambda ( t )$ (the forgetting factor tends towards 1), combined with a constant trace adaption gain. Once the trace of the adaptation gain is below a given value, one switches to the constant trace gain updating. See Sect. 3.2.3 for details. The advantage of the constant trace gain updating is that the adaptation moves in an optimal direction (least squares) but the size of the step does not goes to zero.

For the self tuning operation, the estimation of the Q-polynomial starts once the level of the output is over a defined threshold. A parameter adaptation algorithm (14.37)–(14.41) with decreasing adaption gain $( \lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) = 1$ and $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t ) = 1 )$ or with variable forgetting factor and decreasing gain is used.

The estimation can be stopped when the adaption gain is below a pre-specified level.6 The controller is either updated at each sampling or is updated only when the estimation of the new Q-parameters is finished.

When the fixed parts of the central controller are preserved under the Q parametrization (see (14.20) and (14.21)), one uses the same adaptation algorithm, except that $w _ { 2 }$ given by (14.30) is replaced by:

$$w _ {2} (t) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B ^ {*} (q ^ {- 1}) H r (z ^ {- 1}) H s _ {1} (z ^ {- 1})}{P (q ^ {- 1})} w (t) \tag {14.43}$$

For more details see Landau et al. (2010, 2011).
