# 13.5 Concluding Remarks

1. Large and fast parameter variations may lead to poor transient performance or even instability in classical adaptive control systems.   
2. Adaptive control with switching can significantly improve the transient behavior of adaptive systems.   
3. The basic idea is to use a multi-estimator instead of a unique estimator in the adaptive control scheme. During the transients, one of the estimator can provide rapidly a good estimate of the plant output and an appropriate controller can be chosen.   
4. The main issue in adaptive control with switching is the stability of the closedloop system. It has been shown that a dwell-time can be computed that guarantees closed-loop stability.   
5. An application of adaptive control with switching and tuning to a flexible transmission system shows the good performance of this adaptive system with respect to the classical robust controller design and classical adaptive control.   
6. The use of robust pole placement technique in adaptive control with switching guarantees quadratic stability of the injected system and consequently stability of the adaptive system with arbitrary fast switching.   
7. The use of the CLOE algorithm for parameter estimation in the framework of adaptive control with switching has the following advantages:   
• it reduces unwanted switching caused by output disturbances;   
• it gives a more precise model in the critical zone for robust control;   
• the estimated parameters are not influenced by noise (asymptotically).
