$$
\alpha_ {1} (t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & \text { if   } \sigma (t) > \sigma_ {0} \text {   over   a   finite   interval } \\ 0 & \text { if   } \sigma (t) \leq \sigma_ {0} \text {   over   a   finite   interval } \end{array} \right. \tag {16.36}
$$

One can also use an average value of $\sigma ( t )$ over a sliding horizon. Other indicators can also be used for defining the scheduling variable as a function of data. However, in all the cases, the selection of the threshold $\sigma _ { 0 }$ is critical for the good operation of the adaptive control system. Unfortunately, the choice of the threshold is problem dependent. If the threshold is too low, one may get a drift in estimated parameters (particularly under the effect of constant disturbances applied from time to time), and if the threshold is too high, the parameter estimates will be incorrect because the adaptation will not operate.

A specific situation occurs when filtered closed-loop output error algorithm (F-CLOE) is used for parameter estimation. In this case, the filtering of the data is not necessary (d.c. components are removed by the filtering of the observation vector) and furthermore, the filtered observation vector will be null if excitation is not applied to the system. Therefore, when using this algorithm, the need for finding a threshold for starting or stopping the adaptation algorithm as a function of the richness of data is removed. This represents a significative advantage over the filtered open-loop identification algorithms currently used in adaptive control.
