The effect of demanding performance in regulation upon the sensitivity functions and as a consequence upon the robustness of the closed-loop systems has been discussed in detail in Chap. 8. The specific choice of the closed-loop poles and of the fixed parts of the controller have also been discussed in Chap. 8. We will recall here just some of the basic facts.

The closed-loop performance will be mainly defined by the dominant closedloop poles. However, it is advisable to assign all the poles and to avoid poles at $z = 0$ (which corresponds to the default location of non-assigned poles). Concerning the choice of the fixed part of the controller (the filter $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ) and $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) )$ , we recall that they allow:

• to perfectly reject disturbances with known models in steady state $( H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) )$ ,   
• to open the loop or to reduce the gain of the controller at certain frequencies $( H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) )$ ,   
• to shape the sensitivity functions.

In order to avoid an undesirable stress on the actuator, a low value of the modulus of the input sensitivity function is needed (i.e., low gain of the controller) at the frequencies where the system to be controlled has a very low gain. Typical situations concern:

(a) low system gain at high frequencies near 0.5fs ;   
(b) low system gain at the frequencies corresponding to oscillatory zeros (deep zeros).

In order to reduce the gain of the controller at these frequencies a filter $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ should be introduced. For case (a), one generally uses $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 + \beta q ^ { - 1 }$ or $( 1 + \beta q ^ { - 1 } ) ^ { 2 } , 0 . 7 < \beta \leq 1$ and for case (b), one uses $H _ { S } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 + \beta _ { 1 } q ^ { - 1 } + \beta _ { 2 } q ^ { - 2 }$ with a corresponding natural frequency (ω0) and damping factor (ζ ) (see Chap. 8 for details).
