# 15.1 Introduction

In a number of applications areas including active noise control (ANC) and active vibration control (AVC), an image (a correlated measurement) of the disturbances acting upon the system can be made available. This information is very useful for attenuating the disturbances using a feedforward compensation scheme. However, the feedforward compensator will depend not only upon the dynamics of the plant but also upon the characteristics of the disturbances. Since the characteristics (the model) of the disturbances are generally unknown and may be time varying, adaptive feedforward compensation was proposed many years ago. Probably one of the first references is Widrow and Stearns (1985).

The basic idea for adaptive rejection of unknown disturbances by feedforward compensation is that a “well located” transducer can provide a measurement, highly correlated with the unknown disturbance (a good image of the disturbance). This information is applied to the control input of the plant through an adaptive filter whose parameters are adapted such that the effect of the disturbance upon the output is minimized. This is illustrated in Fig. 15.1.

Adaptive feedforward broadband vibration (or noise) compensation is currently used in ANC and AVC when an image of the disturbance is available (Elliott and Nelson 1994; Elliott and Sutton 1996; Jacobson et al. 2001; Zeng and de Callafon 2006; Kuo and Morgan 1996, 1999). However, at the end of the nineties it was pointed out that in most of these systems there is a physical “positive” feedback coupling between the compensator system and the measurement of the image of the disturbance (vibration or noise) (Kuo and Morgan 1999; Hu and Linn 2000; Jacobson et al. 2001; Zeng and de Callafon 2006). This is clearly illustrated in Fig. 15.2 which represents an AVC system using a measurement of the image of the disturbance and an inertial actuator for reducing the residual acceleration. For more details about this system and a photo see Sect. 1.4.5 and Landau and Alma (2010).
