# CODE AVAILABILITY

The code that was used for this work and, in particular, this environment is available at https://github.com/ Cfckoh/RL\_swimmers/tree/main.

and machine learning series (The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 2018).
[3] V.
Mnih, A.
P.
Badia, M.
Mirza, A.
Graves, T.
Lillicrap, T.
Harley, D.
Silver, and K.
Kavukcuoglu, Asynchronous Methods for Deep Reinforcement Learning, in Proceedings of The 33rd International Conference on Machine Learning, Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, Vol.
48, edited by M.
F.
Balcan and K.
Q.
Weinberger (PMLR, New York, New York, USA, 2016) pp.
1928– 1937.
[4] J.
Schulman, F.
Wolski, P.
Dhariwal, A.
Radford, and O.
Klimov, Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms (2017), arXiv:1707.06347 [cs].
[5] P.
Garnier, J.
Viquerat, J.
Rabault, A.
Larcher, A.
Kuhnle, and E.
Hachem, A review on deep reinforcement learning for fluid mechanics, Computers & Fluids 225, 104973 (2021).
[6] J.
Rabault, F.
Ren, W.
Zhang, H.
Tang, and H.
Xu, Deep reinforcement learning in fluid mechanics: A promising method for both active flow control and shape optimization, Journal of Hydrodynamics 32, 234 (2020).
[7] G.
Reddy, J.
Wong-Ng, A.
Celani, T.
J.
Sejnowski, and M.
Vergassola, Glider soaring via reinforcement learning in the field, Nature 562, 236 (2018).
[8] G.
Novati, L.
Mahadevan, and P.
Koumoutsakos, Controlled gliding and perching through deep-reinforcementlearning, Phys.
Rev.
Fluids 4, 093902 (2019), publisher: American Physical Society.
[9] L.
Biferale, F.
Bonaccorso, M.
Buzzicotti, P.
Clark Di Leoni, and K.
Gustavsson, Zermelo’s problem: Optimal point-to-point navigation in 2D turbulent flows using reinforcement learning, Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 29, 103138 (2019).
[10] J.
K.
Alageshan, A.
K.
Verma, J.
Bec, and R.
Pandit, Machine learning strategies for path-planning microswimmers in turbulent flows, Physical Review E 101, 043110 (2020), arXiv:1910.01728 [physics, stat].
[11] P.
Gunnarson, I.
Mandralis, G.
Novati, P.
Koumoutsakos, and J.
O.
Dabiri, Learning efficient navigation in vortical flow fields, Nature Communications 12, 7143 (2021).
[12] F.
Borra, L.
Biferale, M.
Cencini, and A.
Celani, Reinforcement learning for pursuit and evasion of microswimmers at low Reynolds number, Physical Review Fluids 7, 023103 (2022).
[13] C.
Calascibetta, L.
Biferale, F.
Borra, A.
Celani, and M.
Cencini, Taming Lagrangian chaos with multiobjective reinforcement learning, The European Physical Journal E 46, 9 (2023).
[14] C.
Calascibetta, L.
Biferale, F.
Borra, A.
