# 14.3 Robustness Considerations

As it is well known, the introduction of the internal model for the perfect rejection of the disturbance (asymptotically) will have as effect to raise the maximum value of the modulus of the output sensitivity function $S _ { y p }$ . This may lead to unacceptable values for the modulus and delay margins if the controller design is not appropriately done (see Landau and Zito 2005). As a consequence, a robust control design should be considered assuming that the model of the disturbance and its domain of variations are known. The objective is that for all the situations (which means for all possible values of the disturbance model parameters) an acceptable modulus margin and delay margin are obtained. It is important to mention that the “tuned” linear controller will give the maximum achievable performance for the adaptive scheme.

Furthermore at the frequencies where perfect rejection of the disturbance is achieved one has $S _ { y p } ( e ^ { - j \omega } ) = 0$ and

$$\left| S _ {u p} (e ^ {- j \omega}) \right| = \left| \frac {A (e ^ {- j \omega})}{B (e ^ {- j \omega})} \right| \tag {14.23}$$

Equation (14.23) corresponds to the inverse of the gain of the system to be controlled. The implication of (14.23) is that cancellation (or in general an important attenuation) of disturbances on the output should be done only in frequency regions where the system gain is large enough. If the gain of the controlled system is too low, $| S _ { u p } |$ will be large at these frequencies. Therefore, the robustness vs additive plant model uncertainties will be reduced and the stress on the actuator will become important. Equation (14.23) also implies that serious problems will occur if $B ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ ) has complex zeros close to the unit circle (stable or unstable zeros) at frequencies where an important attenuation of disturbances is required. It is mandatory to avoid attenuation of disturbances at these frequencies.

Since on one hand we would not like to react to very high-frequency disturbances and on the other hand we would like to have a good robustness, it is often wise to open the loop at $0 . 5 f _ { s } ( f _ { s }$ is the sampling frequency) by introducing a fixed part in the controller $H _ { R } ( q ^ { - 1 } ) = 1 + q ^ { - 1 }$ (for details see Sect. 7.3.1 and Landau and Zito 2005).
