# C.1 Passive (Hyperstable) Systems

The concept of passive (hyperstable) systems emerged in control through the seminal work of Popov, Kalman and Yakubovitch (the Popov-Kalman-Yakubovitch lemma) in connection with the problem of stability of nonlinear feedback systems (Popov 1963, 1964). The concept of passive (hyperstable) system can be viewed also as a particularization of the concept of positive dynamic systems. The term positive dynamic system is an extension of the mathematical concept of positivity. This is a necessary and sufficient condition for a mathematical object to be factorizable as a product (for example a positive definite matrix Q can be factored as $Q = L L ^ { T } )$ ).

The study of passive (hyperstable) systems and their relations on the one hand with positive dynamic systems and on the other hand with the properties of passive network have been initiated in Popov (1964). The terms “hyperstable” has been coined to describe some input-output properties of a system which appears to be a generalization of the property of passive systems, which requires that at every moment the stored energy be equal or less than the initial energy stored in the system, plus the energy supplied to the system’s terminal over the considered time horizon. (This generalization has been done more or less in the same way as for Lyapunov functions which are positive definite functions, and for a particular state representation they can be related with the energy of the system.) The main use of this property was to treat stability problems related to the interconnection of hyperstable systems. A deep treatment of the subject can be found in Popov (1966, 1973) as well as in Anderson and Vongpanitlerd (1972). Through the work of Willems (1971), Desoer and Vidyasagar (1975), the term passive systems (instead of hyperstability) became widely accepted, even if in this context, passive is not directly related to the energy supplied to a system. References for this subject include Zames (1966), Anderson (1967), Hitz and Anderson (1969), Hill and Moylan (1980), Faurre et al. (1979).
