# 15.3 Development of the Algorithms

The algorithms for adaptive feedforward compensation will be developed under the following hypotheses:

(H1) The signal d(t) is bounded, i.e.,

$$| d (t) | \leq \alpha ; \quad \forall t (0 \leq \alpha \leq \infty) \tag {15.22}$$

or

$$\lim _ {N \to \infty} \sum_ {t = 1} ^ {N} d ^ {2} (t) \leq N \varepsilon^ {2} + K _ {r}0 \leq \varepsilon^ {2} < \infty , 0 < K _ {r} < \infty \tag {15.23}$$

(which is equivalently to say that s(t) is bounded and $W ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ in Fig. 15.4 is asymptotically stable).

(H2) Perfect matching condition. There exists a filter $N ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ of finite dimension such that:4

$$\frac {N}{(1 - N M)} G = - D \tag {15.24}$$

and the characteristic polynomial of the “internal” feedback loop:

$$P (z ^ {- 1}) = A _ {M} (z ^ {- 1}) S (z ^ {- 1}) - B _ {M} (z ^ {- 1}) R (z ^ {- 1}) \tag {15.25}$$

is a Hurwitz polynomial.

(H3) The effect of the measurement noise upon the measured residual error is neglected (deterministic context).

Once the algorithms will be developed under these hypotheses, hypotheses (H2) and (H3) will be removed and the algorithms will be analyzed in this modified context.

A first step in the development of the algorithms is to establish a relation between the errors on the estimation of the parameters of the feedforward filter and the measured residual acceleration. This is summarized in the following lemma.

Lemma 15.1 Under hypotheses (H1), (H2) and (H3), for the system described by (15.1) through (15.21) using a feedforward compensator $\hat { N }$ with constant parameters, one has:

$$\nu (t + 1) = \frac {A _ {M} (q ^ {- 1}) G (q (^ {- 1})}{P (q ^ {- 1})} [ \theta - \hat {\theta} ] ^ {T} \phi (t) \tag {15.26}$$

where

$$\theta^ {T} = [ s _ {1}, \dots , s _ {n _ {S}}, r _ {0}, r _ {1}, \dots , r _ {n _ {R}} ] = [ \theta_ {S} ^ {T}, \theta_ {R} ^ {T} ] \tag {15.27}$$

is the vector of parameters of the optimal filter N assuring perfect matching,

$$\hat {\theta} ^ {T} = \left[ \hat {s} _ {1}, \dots , \hat {s} _ {n _ {S}}, \hat {r} _ {0}, \dots , \hat {r} _ {n _ {R}} \right] = \left[ \hat {\theta} _ {S} ^ {T}, \hat {\theta} _ {R} ^ {T} \right] \tag {15.28}$$

is the vector of constant estimated parameters of $\hat { N }$ ,

$$\phi^ {T} (t) = [ - \hat {y} (t), \dots , - \hat {y} (t - n _ {S} + 1, \hat {u} (t + 1), \hat {u} (t), \dots , \hat {u} (t - n _ {R} + 1) ]= \left[ \phi_ {\hat {y}} ^ {T} (t), \phi_ {\hat {u}} ^ {T} (t) \right] \tag {15.29}$$

and u(t ˆ + 1) is given by
