# 16.2.2 Anti-Aliasing Filters

The theory of discrete-time systems indicates that the maximum frequency (fmax) of a signal sent to the analog to digital converter should satisfy:

$$f _ {\max} < f _ {s} / 2 \tag {16.3}$$

where $f _ { s } / 2$ is called the Nyquist or Shannon frequency. Sending frequencies over $f _ { s } / 2$ produces distortion of the recovered discrete-time spectrum called aliasing. Therefore, anti-aliasing filters should always be introduced in order to remove the undesirable components of the signal. Anti-aliasing filters are constituted in general as one or several second order filters in cascade (Bessel, ITAE, Butterworth type). They should introduce a consequent attenuation of the signal beyond $f _ { s } / 2$ but their bandwidth should be larger than the desired closed-loop bandwidth. Their design will also depend on the level of undesirable signal at frequencies beyond $f _ { s } / 2$ . The anti-aliasing filters introduce a high-frequency dynamics which can in general be approximated by an additional small time delay. Since one directly estimates a discrete-time model, their effect is captured by the estimated model.

In a number of practical situations (i.e., very low sampling frequency for process control), it is more convenient to do the anti-aliasing filtering in two steps by using over sampling for data acquisition $( f _ { a } = n f _ { s } )$ . This is illustrated in Fig. 16.1. A highsampling frequency (integer multiple of the desired one) is used for data acquisition, with an appropriate analog anti-aliasing filter. Then the sampled signal is passed through an anti-aliasing digital filter followed by a frequency divider which delivers a sampled signal with the required frequency.
