$$p (t + 1) = - \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n _ {D p}} d _ {p _ {i}} p (t - i + 1) + \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {n _ {N p}} n _ {p _ {i}} e (t - i + 1) + e (t + 1). \tag {14.56}$$

The problem is, in fact, an on-line adaptive estimation of parameters in presence of noise (see Chap. 5 and Landau et al. 1986). Equation (14.56) is a particular case of identification of an ARMAX model. It is possible to use the Recursive Extended Least Squares method given in Sect. 5.3.2, which is dedicated to the identification of this type of model. The parameter adaptation algorithm given in (14.37)–(14.41) is used.

In order to apply this methodology it is supposed that the plant model is known (can be obtained by identification). It is also supposed that the degrees $n _ { N _ { p } }$ and $n _ { D _ { p } }$ of $N _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ respectively $D _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ ) are fixed.

The controller containing the disturbance dynamics is computed by solving the diophantine equation (14.8) and using (14.5)

$$A (z ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (z ^ {- 1}) S ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) + z ^ {- d} B (z ^ {- 1}) R (z ^ {- 1}) = P (z ^ {- 1}) \tag {14.57}$$

with $H _ { S } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) = \hat { D } _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ (the current estimated model of the disturbance).

In the case of single or multiple narrow band disturbances, if only a certain level of attenuation of the disturbance is necessary, one can either modify the damping of the estimated disturbance model before solving (14.57) or use the stop band filters presented in Sect. 8.5.1.

In adaptive operation, the parameters of the controller have to be recomputed at each sampling instant based on the current estimation of the disturbance model (the disturbance estimation algorithm will use a non vanishing adaptation gain). For the self tuning operation, the algorithm for disturbance model estimation uses a parameter adaptation algorithm with decreasing adaptation gain. One can either update the controller parameters at each sample, or one can keep constant the parameters of the controller during disturbance estimation and up-date the parameters of the controller once the estimation has converged (a measure of the convergence is the trace of the adaptation gain).

The major drawback of this approach is the complexity of the computation which has to be done at each sampling since one has to solve a Bezout equation of a dimension which depends on the order of the model of the plant and the order of the disturbance model (often the order of the model of the secondary path is very high). A slight reduction of the complexity is obtained if one uses a Youla-Kucera parameterization of the controller. In this case one has to solve (14.17) instead of (14.57).
