$$\boldsymbol {a} = - 2 \psi \boldsymbol {x} + 2 \Upsilon (z) [ x _ {1} - x _ {1 c}, x _ {2} - x _ {2 c} ], \tag {34}b = 2 \left(\psi \| \boldsymbol {x} \| _ {\infty} + \Upsilon (z) \| [ x _ {1} - x _ {1 c}, x _ {2} - x _ {2 c} ] \| _ {\infty}\right) \varrho_ {2}, \tag {35}c = - \alpha + 2 \lambda \psi \sqrt {| z |} - \Upsilon (z) \left(2 \left[ x _ {1} - x _ {1 c}, x _ {2} - x _ {2 c} \right] \boldsymbol {u} _ {\mathrm{smc}} - \gamma_ {1}\right). \tag {36}$$

In the following simulations, we assume $\theta _ { 1 } = 0 . 5 \sin { t } .$ , $\theta _ { 2 } = 0 . 5 \exp \left( - t \right)$ cos t, δ1 = 4 cos $t , \delta _ { 2 } = 3$ sin $x _ { 2 } , x _ { 1 c } = 5$ , $x _ { 2 c } = 3 ,$ and $l = 2$ . We can see that dist $( \pmb { \mathscr { s } } = \mathbf { 0 } , \partial \mathcal { C } ) =$ $\sqrt { x _ { 1 c } ^ { 2 } + x _ { 2 c } ^ { 2 } } - l ~ = ~ 4 . 8 3$ , and hence, the set $\Omega ~ = ~ \{ \pmb { x } ~ \in$ $\begin{array} { r } { \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 } \ \rvert \ \lVert \pmb { s } \rVert _ { 2 } ^ { - } < \ 3 . 8 3 \} } \end{array}$ . When selecting the parameters of a proposed controller, it is important to consider that the safety constraint has a relative degree of one for all ${ \textbf { \em x } } \in { \mathcal { C } }$ . We first set $h _ { 1 } \ : = \ : \lambda \ : = \ : \bar { h } \ : = \ : 1 , \ : c _ { z } \ : = \ : 2 , \ : \alpha ( h _ { \Upsilon } ) \ : = \ : 1 0 h _ { \Upsilon }$ , and $\beta _ { 0 } ~ = ~ 0 . 1 . ~ h _ { 2 } ~ = ~ 0 . 2$ is chosen as $h _ { 2 } ~ < ~ ( 2 / \pi ) h _ { 1 }$ must be satisfied. To decrease the value of $b ( { \pmb x } , z ) , ~ z ( 0 ) ~ = ~ - 1 0$ is selected. For ${ \pmb x } ( 0 ) = [ 7 , 7 ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ and ${ \pmb x } ( 0 ) = [ 7 , 4 . 5 ] ^ { \mathrm { T } }$ , in Fig. 2(a), a comparison is shown between the system response under the proposed safety-critical controller and the the conventional sliding mode controller. The stated strategy in remark 5 is also employed by resetting $z ( t ) ~ { \mathrm { t o } } - 1 0$ when $| z ( t ) | < 1$ and ${ \pmb x } \in \mathcal { C } _ { \mathrm { R } }$ . As can be seen from $\mathrm { F i g . } 2 ( \mathrm { a } )$ , the proposed controller demonstrates effective compliance with the safety limitation and achieves stability in the closed-loop system. The computed control signals by the proposed safety-critical controller are depicted in Figs. 2(b) and (c), where the presence of the chattering phenomenon can be observed due to the utilization of the signum function in $\mathbf { \delta } \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { s m s } } .$ In the above simulations, we use the closed-form solution (30) to design the safeguarding controller. $\mathrm  { A s } \ \ \ \} _ { \varrho _ { 2 } }$ is non-zero and to guarantee the existence of $u _ { \mathrm { s } } .$ , we employ the second control signal for designing $u _ { \mathrm { s } }$ by setting $j = 2$ when $x _ { 2 } ( 0 ) \geq x _ { 1 } ( 0 ) - 2$ . Otherwise, the first control signal is used to design $u _ { \mathrm { s } }$ .
