# 16.3.1 Scheduling Variable ${ \pmb { \alpha } } _ { 1 } ( t )$

For dead zone type adaptation algorithms, one has:

$$
\alpha_ {1} (t) = \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} 1 & | f [ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) ] | > \Delta (t) \\ 0 & | f [ \varepsilon^ {0} (t + 1) ] | \leq \Delta (t) \end{array} \right. \tag {16.30}
$$

where $\varDelta ( t )$ is a time-varying threshold and $f [ \varepsilon ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 ) ]$ is a function of the a priori adaptation error which definitions depend upon the various used control strategies (see Sects. 10.4, 11.6 and 12.3).

The scheduling variable $\alpha _ { 1 } ( t )$ is also used in order “to adapt only when the signals are relevant”. In particular, one should avoid adapting when all the signals are constant. In such situations, the incoming information cannot improve the parameter adaptation process. A good test quantity for the relevance of the signals for adaptation is Clary and Franklin (1985):

$$\sigma (t) = \bar {\phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (t) F (t) \bar {\phi} _ {f} (t) \geq \sigma_ {0} \tag {16.31}$$

to which threshold $\sigma _ { 0 }$ can be assigned. This threshold will depend on the residual noise in the system as well as on $\lambda _ { 1 }$ and $\lambda _ { 2 }$ . The dependence on $\lambda _ { 1 }$ and $\lambda _ { 2 }$ will be illustrated next.

If the signals are constant, i.e., $\phi _ { f } ( t ) = \phi _ { f } ( t - 1 ) = \cdot \cdot \cdot = \phi _ { f } ( 0 )$ and $\lambda _ { 1 } ( t ) =$ $\lambda _ { 2 } ( t ) = \lambda$ , one gets:

$$F (t) ^ {- 1} = \lambda^ {t} F (0) ^ {- 1} + \lambda \frac {1 - \lambda^ {t}}{1 - \lambda} \bar {\phi} _ {f} (0) \bar {\phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (0) \tag {16.32}$$

from which one obtains (using the matrix inversion lemma):

$$\bar {\phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (t) F (t) \bar {\phi} _ {f} (t) = \frac {(1 - \lambda) \bar {\phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (0) F (0) \bar {\phi} _ {f} (0)}{\lambda^ {t} (1 - \lambda) + \lambda \bar {\phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (0) F (0) \bar {\phi} _ {f} (0)} \tag {16.33}$$

and therefore for constant signals:

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \bar {\phi} _ {f} ^ {T} (t) F (t) \bar {\phi} _ {f} (t) = \frac {1 - \lambda}{\lambda} \tag {16.34}$$

Therefore, the threshold σ0 will be defined as:

$$\sigma_ {0} = \beta \frac {1 - \lambda}{\lambda}; \quad \beta > 1 \tag {16.35}$$

When using $\sigma ( t )$ given by (16.31), the scheduling variable $\alpha _ { 1 } ( t )$ is defined as:
