# 16.3 The Parameter Adaptation Algorithm

In Chap. 10, we have examined in detail the various forms of parameter adaptation which include: data filtering, data normalization, parameter projection, dead-zone. All of these options may not be necessary for a specific application. It is, however, possible to give a general formula (for integral adaptation) which includes the various options. To do this, we need to recall the definition of filtered and normalized variables.

1. Filtered variables:

$$y _ {f} (t) = L \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y (t), \quad u _ {f} (t) = L \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) \tag {16.19}\phi_ {f} (t) = L (q ^ {- 1}) \phi (t)$$

Filtering is used in order to remove steady state components (very low frequencies) and high-frequency components beyond he desired bandwidth from the input-output data. The filters can also enhance the signal in the critical frequency region for design (in order to improve the quality of the estimated model at these frequencies). As indicated in Chap. 9, using dedicated algorithms for identification in closed loop, filtering may not be necessary or can be simplified.

2. Normalized filtered variables

$$\bar {y} _ {f} (t) = \frac {y _ {f} (t)}{m (t)}, \quad \bar {u} _ {f} (t) = \frac {u _ {f} (t)}{m (t)}, \quad \bar {\phi} _ {f} (t) = \frac {\phi_ {f} (t)}{m (t)} \tag {16.20}$$

where:1

$$m ^ {2} (t) = \mu^ {2} m ^ {2} (t - 1) + \max (\| \phi_ {f} (t) \| ^ {2}, 1)m (0) = 1, 0 < \mu < 1 \tag {16.21}$$

or:

$$m (t) = 1 + \| \phi_ {f} (t) \| \tag {16.22}$$

Normalization is introduced in the presence of unmodeled dynamics. $\| \bar { \phi } ( t ) \| \leq 1$ for all t and has as effect the reduction of the adaptation speed.

3. Parameter adaptation algorithm (integral adaptation)
