# 14.2 Plant Representation and Controller Design

The structure of the linear time invariant discrete-time model of the plant (used for controller design) is:

$$G (z ^ {- 1}) = \frac {z ^ {- d} B (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} = \frac {z ^ {- d - 1} B ^ {*} (z ^ {- 1})}{A (z ^ {- 1})} \tag {14.1}$$

with d equal to the plant pure time delay in number of sampling periods and

$$A (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 + a _ {1} z ^ {- 1} + \dots + a _ {n _ {A}} z ^ {- n _ {A}}B (z ^ {- 1}) = b _ {1} z ^ {- 1} + \dots + b _ {n _ {B}} z ^ {- n _ {B}} = q ^ {- 1} B ^ {*} (z ^ {- 1})B ^ {*} (z ^ {- 1}) = b _ {1} + \dots + b _ {n _ {B}} z ^ {- n _ {B} + 1}$$

where $A ( z ^ { - 1 } ) , B ( z ^ { - 1 } ) , B ^ { * } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ are polynomials in the complex variable $z ^ { - 1 }$ and $n _ { A }$ , nB and $n _ { B } - 1$ represent their orders.2 The model of the plant may be obtained by system identification using the techniques and algorithms presented in Chap. 5. Details on system identification of the models considered in this chapter can be found in Landau and Zito (2005), Constantinescu (2001), Landau et al. (2001a, 2001b), Karimi (2002), Constantinescu and Landau (2003).

Since in this chapter we are focused on regulation, the controller to be designed is a RS-type polynomial controller described in Chap. 7—see also Fig. 14.5. The output of the plant $y ( t )$ and the input u(t) may be expressed as:

$$y (t) = \frac {q ^ {- d} B (q ^ {- 1})}{A (q ^ {- 1})} u (t) + p (t) \tag {14.2}S (q ^ {- 1}) u (t) = - R (q ^ {- 1}) y (t) \tag {14.3}$$

where $q ^ { - 1 }$ is the delay (shift) operator $( x ( t ) = q ^ { - 1 } x ( t + 1 ) )$ and $p ( t )$ is the resulting additive disturbance on the output of the system. $R ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and $S ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ are polynomials in $z ^ { - 1 }$ having the orders $n _ { R }$ and $n _ { S }$ , respectively, with the following expressions:

$$R (z ^ {- 1}) = r _ {0} + r _ {1} z ^ {- 1} + \dots + r _ {n _ {R}} z ^ {- n _ {R}} = R ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) H _ {R} (z ^ {- 1}) \tag {14.4}S (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 + s _ {1} z ^ {- 1} + \dots + s _ {n _ {S}} z ^ {- n _ {S}} = S ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) H _ {S} (z ^ {- 1}) \tag {14.5}$$

where $H _ { R }$ and $H _ { S }$ are pre-specified parts of the controller (used for example to incorporate the internal model of a disturbance or to open the loop at certain frequencies).

We define the following sensitivity functions (see also Chap. 8):

• Output sensitivity function (the transfer function between the disturbance $p ( t )$ and the output of the system $y ( t ) )$ :

$$S _ {y p} (z ^ {- 1}) = \frac {A (z ^ {- 1}) S (z ^ {- 1})}{P (z ^ {- 1})} \tag {14.6}$$
