# REFERENCES

( ) [1] X. Wang and F. Blaabjerg, “Harmonic stability in power electronic-based: : } power systems: Concept, modeling, and analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 2858–2870, 2019.   
[2] N. Swaminathan and Y. Cao, “An overview of high-conversion high-: voltage dc–dc converters for electrified aviation power distribution system,” IEEE Transactions on Transportation Electrification, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1740–1754, 2020.   
[3] S. Buso and P. Mattavelli, Digital control in power electronics. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2015.   
[4] S. Vazquez, J. I. Leon, L. G. Franquelo, J. Rodriguez, H. A. Young, A. Marquez, and P. Zanchetta, “Model predictive control: A review of its applications in power electronics,” IEEE industrial electronics magazine, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 16–31, 2014.   
:[5] C. Wu and F. Blaabjerg, “Advanced control of power electronic systems—an overview of methods,” Control of Power Electronic Converters and Systems, pp. 1–33, 2021.   
[6] W. Li, H. Yuan, S. Li, and J. Zhu, “A revisit to model-free control,” IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 37, no. 12, pp. 14408–14421, 2022.   
[7] W.-H. Chen, “Goal-oriented control systems (gocs): From how to what,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 816–819, 2024.   
[8] Y. Cheng, C. Zhang, Z. Zhang, X. Meng, S. Hong, W. Li, Z. Wang, Z. Wang, F. Yin, J. Zhao, et al., “Exploring large language model based intelligent agents: Definitions, methods, and prospects,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03428, 2024.   
[9] M. Tiller, Introduction to physical modeling with Modelica. Springer Science & Business Media, 2001.

Fig. 6. Results of DC-DC boost converter controller Design

[10] F. Marini and B. Walczak, “Particle swarm optimization (pso). a tutorial,” Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems, vol. 149, pp. 153–165, 2015.   
[11] G. Brockman, V. Cheung, L. Pettersson, J. Schneider, J. Schulman, J. Tang, and W. Zaremba, “Openai gym,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01540, 2016.
