# 14.6 Indirect Adaptive Regulation

The methodology proposed in this section concerns the indirect adaptive control for the attenuation of narrow band disturbances and consists in two steps: (1) Identification of the disturbance model. (2) Computation of a digital controller using the identified disturbance model

For the identification of the disturbance model one has to set first a reliable observer of the disturbance. Provided that the model of the plant is known (which is the case in our context) an estimation $\bar { y } ( t )$ of the disturbance $p ( t )$ can be obtained by (Bodson and Douglas 1997; Gouraud et al. 1997):

$$\bar {y} (t) = y (t) - \frac {q ^ {- d} B q ^ {- 1}}{A q ^ {- 1}} u (t). \tag {14.53}$$

However, as we can see from (14.25):

$$
\begin{array}{l} w (t) = \frac {A (q ^ {- 1}) N _ {p} (q ^ {- 1})}{D _ {p} (q ^ {- 1})} \delta (t) \\ = A \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) y (t) - q ^ {- d} B \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) u (t) = A \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) p (t) \tag {14.54} \\ \end{array}
$$

The signal $w ( t )$ (see also Fig. 14.3) can be viewed as an estimation of the disturbance filtered though the polynomial $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ). Both solutions for getting an estimation of the disturbances can be used. For numerical reasons it is preferable to use w (since the polynomial $A ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ ) may have roots close to the unit circle).

The disturbance is considered as a stationary signal having a rational spectrum. As such it may be considered as the output of a filter with the transfer function $N _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) / D _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } )$ and a white noise as input:

$$D _ {p} (q ^ {- 1}) p (t) = N _ {p} (q ^ {- 1}) e (t) \quad \text { or } \quad p (t) = \frac {N _ {p} (q ^ {- 1})}{D _ {p} (q ^ {- 1})} e (t) \tag {14.55}$$

where e(t) represents a Gaussian white noise, and

$$N _ {p} (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 + n _ {p _ {1}} z ^ {- 1} + \dots + n _ {p _ {n _ {N _ {p}}}} z ^ {- n _ {N _ {p}}} = 1 + z ^ {- 1} N _ {p} ^ {*} (z ^ {- 1})D _ {p} (z ^ {- 1}) = 1 + d _ {p _ {1}} z ^ {- 1} + \dots + d _ {p _ {n _ {D _ {p}}}} z ^ {- n _ {D _ {p}}} = 1 + z ^ {- 1} D _ {p} ^ {*} (z ^ {- 1})$$

Therefore the disturbance model can be represented by an ARMA model. As we deal with narrow band disturbances, the filtering effect of the primary path in cascade with the output sensitivity function (when operating in closed loop) around the central frequency of the disturbance can be approximated by a gain and a phase lag which will be captured by the $\frac { N _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) } { D _ { p } ( z ^ { - 1 } ) }$ model.

From (14.55) one obtains:
