To achieve the rejection of the disturbance (at least asymptotically) without measuring it, a feedback solution has to be considered. The common framework is the assumption that the disturbance is the result of white noise or a Dirac impulse passed through the “model of the disturbance”.1 The problem of rejection of the disturbance in the case of known plant and unknown disturbance model has been addressed in Bodson and Douglas (1997), Amara et al. (1999a, 1999b), Valentinotti (2001), Marino et al. (2003), Ding (2003), Gouraud et al. (1997), Hillerstrom and Sternby (1994), Landau et al. (2005) among other references.

The following approaches considered for solving this problem may be mentioned:

1. Use of the internal model principle (Francis and Wonham 1976; Johnson 1976; Bengtsson 1977; Tsypkin 1997; Valentinotti 2001; Amara et al. 1999a, 1999b; Gouraud et al. 1997; Hillerstrom and Sternby 1994; Landau et al. 2005).   
2. Use of an observer for the disturbance (Marino et al. 2003; Ding 2003; Serrani 2006).

3. Use of the “phase-locked” loop structure considered in communication systems (Bodson and Douglas 1997; Bodson 2005).

Of course, since the parameters of the disturbance model are unknown, all these approaches lead to an adaptive implementation which can be of direct or indirect type.

From the user point of view and taking into account the type of operation of adaptive disturbance compensation systems, one has to consider two modes of operation of the adaptive schemes:

• Adaptive operation. The adaptation is performed continuously with a non vanishing adaptation gain and the controller is updated at each sampling.   
• Self-tuning operation. The adaptation procedure starts either on demand or when the performance is unsatisfactory. A vanishing adaptation gain is used. The current controller is either updated at each sampling instant once adaptation starts or is frozen during the estimation/computation of the new controller parameters.

Using the internal model principle, the controller should incorporate the model of the disturbance (Francis and Wonham 1976; Johnson 1976; Bengtsson 1977; Tsypkin 1997). Therefore the rejection of unknown disturbances raises the problem of adapting the internal model of the controller and its redesign in real time.
