# 16.6 Monitoring of Adaptive Control Systems

From the examination of the various adaptive control schemes and parameter adaptation algorithms, one can conclude that in addition to a number of design choices which have to be made when adaptive control is set up, one has to monitor in real time a number of aspects in order to assure a correct operation of the adaptive control system. The basic situations which have to be monitored are:

1. the admissibility of the estimated plant model with respect to controller design,   
2. the parameter adaptation.

The admissibility problem is discussed in Chap. 12 and solutions for removing the eventual singularities are proposed. Parameter projection is another way to remove singularities if an admissible parameter domain can be defined. Other ad-hoc solutions can be considered (like: do not modify the controller and eventually add an excitation signal to improve the parameter estimation).

Monitoring of the parameter adaptation is much more sensitive. Two basic problems have to be considered:

• Reinitialization of the adaptation gain when large parameter variations occur (scheduling variable $\alpha _ { 2 } ( t )$ in (16.25)). This requires a detection procedure.   
• Freezing the adaptation when the signals are not likely to improve the parameter estimation (scheduling variable $\alpha _ { 1 } ( t )$ in (16.23) and (16.25)).

While the monitoring is implemented in the algorithms, one has conceptually a third hierarchical level in an adaptive control system, i.e.,

Level 1: Conventional feedback control.   
Level 2: Adaptation loop.   
Level 3: Monitoring of the adaption loop.

This is illustrated in Fig. 16.6.
