# 16.1 Introduction

The objective of this chapter is to examine in detail the practical aspects related to the implementation of the various adaptive control schemes presented in the previous chapters.

As indicated in Chap. 1, adaptive control can be viewed as a hierarchical system:

Level 1: Conventional feedback control (in our case: linear digital control), Level 2: Adaptation loop.

The efficient use of adaptation requires that, except when plant model parameters vary or knowledge of them is lacking, a correct implementation of a digital controller is available. The only effect of adaptation will be the adjustment of the controller parameters in real time. Section 16.2 will review a number of basic facts relating to the implementation of digital controllers.

The basic component of the adaptation loop is the parameter adaptation algorithm (PAA). Various forms have been discussed throughout the book and more specifically in Chaps. 3 and 10. In general, PAAs with time-varying adaptation gain are used in practice because they offer better performances than PAAs with constant adaptation gain. Various aspects related to their implementation will be discussed in Sect. 16.3. In particular, the key practical issue for assuring the positive definiteness of the matrix adaptation gain despite possible round-off errors will be examined.

Another important aspect is the programming of the design equation for indirect adaptive control. Standard books like (Press et al. 1988) offer solutions for numerical robust programming of the various design equations considered.

Once the adjustable digital controller and the parameter adaptation algorithm have been implemented, one considers the implementation of the various adaptive control strategies. This is discussed in Sect. 16.4. The initialization of adaptive control schemes is discussed in Sect. 16.5. In a number of situations, the safe operation of an adaptive control scheme requires the monitoring of the information contained in the signals sent to the parameter adaptation algorithm, as well as of the results delivered by the parameter adaptation algorithm. This leads to the introduction of a supervision loop and this is discussed in Sect. 16.6.
