# VII. CONCLUSION

We study the challenging problem of controlling the separation between a swimmer and its passive target in chaotic flows using reinforcement learning. Initially, we observe that state-of-the-art deep NN-based RL algorithms of the actor-critic (AC) type fail at this task due to their inability to handle fat-tailed statistics, which exhibit extended power-law or algebraic tails. To address this, we propose a physics-informed approach where the critic utilizes analytical estimates, specifically the average maximum Lyapunov exponent of the flow.

We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on the BK flow and validate it on the ABC flow. This method replaces NN approximations of value functions with flow-control-informed functions, reducing the computational burden while incorporating domainspecific knowledge and maintaining convergence guarantees. Even imperfect physics-informed functions can improve policy training, provide interpretable insights into policy failures, and serve as an effective alarm mechanism.

While this study focuses on controlling a pair of particles, the approach naturally extends to monitoring and controlling groups navigating turbulent flows, such as air drones, bird flocks, or aquatic drone swarms. Some underlying multi-agent problems may be simplified to a knearest neighbors plus mean-field control framework, as discussed in [15]. Combining the approach developed in this manuscript with the mean-field framework and other notable methods, such as [31] and [32], presents significant opportunities for advancing the emerging field of multi-agent reinforcement learning. A particularly intriguing direction is the control of swarms of Lagrangian particles with contrasting objectives, such as maintaining group cohesion, avoiding close encounters, and minimizing energy expenditure for maneuvering.
