# 15.5.1 System Identification

The models of the plant may be obtained by system identification using the methods provided in Chaps. 5 and 9. The secondary path, $G ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ , between control signal $- \hat { y } ( t )$ and the output ν(t) has been identified in open loop. The excitation signal was a PRBS generated with a shift register with $N = 1 0$ and a frequency divider of $p = 4$ . The estimated orders of the model are: $n _ { B _ { G } } = 1 5 , n _ { A _ { G } } = 1 3$ . The best results in terms of model validation were obtained with Recursive Extended Least Square method. The frequency characteristic of the secondary path is shown in Fig. 15.5 (solid). There exist several very low-damped vibration modes in the secondary path. The first vibration mode is at 46.56 Hz with a damping of 0.013 and the second at 83.9 Hz with a damping of 0.011, the third one at 116 Hz has a damping of 0.014. There are two zeros on the unit circle corresponding to a double differentiator behavior and also a pair of low-damped complex zeros at 106 Hz with a damping of 0.021.

The reverse path, $M ( q ^ { - 1 } )$ , has been identified in open loop with the same PRBS excitation (N = 10 and a frequency divider of $p = 4 )$ applied at $- \hat { y } ( t )$ and measuring the output signal of the primary transducer u(t)ˆ . The orders of the obtained model are: $n _ { B _ { M } } = 1 5 , n _ { A _ { M } } = 1 3$ . The best results in terms of model validation were obtained with Recursive Extended Least Square method. The frequency characteristic of the reverse path is presented in Fig. 15.5 (dotted). There exist several very low-damped vibration modes at 46.20 Hz with a damping of 0.045, at 83.9 Hz with a damping of 0.01, at 115 Hz with a damping of 0.014 and some modes in high frequencies. There are two zeros on the unit circle corresponding to a double differentiator.

The primary path has been identified from the spectral densities of d(t) and ν(t) in open-loop operation. The frequency characteristic is presented in Fig. 15.5 (dashed) and may serve for simulations and detailed performance evaluation. Note that the primary path features a resonance at 106 Hz exactly where the secondary path has a pair of low-damped complex zeros (almost no gain). Therefore one can not expect good attenuation around this frequency.
