# 14.1 Introduction

One of the basic problems in control is the attenuation (rejection) of unknown disturbances without measuring them. The common framework is the assumption that the disturbance is the result of white noise or a Dirac impulse passed through the “model of the disturbance”. While in general one can assume a certain structure for such a “model of disturbance”, its parameters are unknown and may be time varying. This will require to use an adaptive feedback approach.

The classical adaptive control paradigm deals essentially with the construction of a control law when the parameters of the plant dynamic model are unknown and time varying (Åström and Wittenmark 1995; Ioannou and Sun 1996; S Fekri and Pasqual 2006). However, in many situations the plant dynamic model is known (can be obtained by system identification) and almost invariant and the objective is the rejection of disturbances characterized by unknown and time-varying disturbance models. It seems reasonable to call this paradigm “adaptive regulation”. In what follows we will try to characterize “adaptive control” and “adaptive regulation” with the help of Fig. 14.1.

In classical “adaptive control” the objective is tracking/disturbance attenuation in the presence of unknown and time-varying plant model parameters. Adaptive control focuses on adaptation with respect to plant model parameters variations. The model of the disturbance is assumed to be known and invariant. Only a level of disturbance attenuation in a frequency band is imposed (with the exception of DC disturbances where the controller may include an integrator). The important remarks to be made are:

• No effort is made to estimate the model of the disturbance in real time.   
• In general, the disturbances have an undesirable effect upon the adaptation loop (parameters drift, bursting, etc.) and a class of “robust adaptation algorithms” has been developed in order to reduce this negative impact. See Chap. 10.
