# 16.2.7 Effect of the Computational Delay

The effect of the computation time has to be taken into account in standard digital control systems but it becomes even more important in adaptive control since the number of computations is larger. Two basic situations can be distinguished:

1. Computation time equal to or greater than 0.5Ts: In this case, the measured values at instant t are used to compute the control u which will be sent at $t + 1$ (see Fig. 16.5a). The computer introduces an additional time delay of 1 sampling period and the new delay to be considered for the design of the controller will be:

$$d ^ {\prime} = d + 1$$

This delay has to be introduced in the estimated plant model.

2. Computation time less than $0 . 5 T _ { s }$ : In this case, the control is sent at the end of the computation (see Fig. 16.5b). More precisely, it is sent with a larger delay than the maximum possible computation time. The computer introduces a fractional time delay which has the effect of either introducing a zero or of modifying the existing zeros in the pulse transfer function of the system to be controlled. This effect is captured by the discrete-time estimated plant model. The fractional delay introduced by the computation time is negligible if the computation time is considerably smaller than the sampling period.

In computing the current values, one manipulates a number of variables already available (previous inputs and outputs) before the data acquisition of the last measurement at time t. In order to reduce the computation time, it is advisable to organize the program such that these computations be done between t − 1 and t.
