# 16.4.1 Control Strategies

Various control strategies have been discussed in Chap. 7 for the case of known plant model parameters. Their use in adaptive control schemes has been studied in Chaps. 11, 12 and 13. We will briefly recall here the specificity of their use.

Tracking and regulation with independent objectives and minimum variance tracking and regulation require the knowledge of the plant delay and the stability of the plant model zeros. Often the later condition is not satisfied in practice. Tracking and regulation with weighted input and generalized minimum variance tracking and regulation allow to release the stability condition upon the plant model zeros. However, in the adaptive context the performances will not be guaranteed.

Pole placement, generalized predictive control and linear quadratic control can be used for the adaptive control of systems featuring unstable zeros.

The partial state reference model versions of the generalized predictive control and linear quadratic control have been introduced in order to incorporate in an easy way desired tracking capabilities. Partial state reference model control has been tested on a number of pilots plants involving thermal processes (M’Saad et al. 1987), chemical processes (Najim et al. 1982, 1994), flexible mechanical structures (M’Saad et al. 1993a; M’Saad 1994), fermentation processes (Queinnec et al. 1992).

It has also been successfully used for several adaptive control benchmarks (M’Saad et al. 1989, 1990; M’Saad and Hejda 1994).

When large and rapid variations of the plant parameters occur or when a number of plant models for various regimes of operation are available, the Multimodel Adaptive Control with Switching is strongly recommended. It has been tested on several types of plants including a flexible transmission (Karimi and Landau 2000; Karimi et al. 2001), a simulated PH neutralization process (Böling et al. 2007), air traffic control tracking (Li and Bar-Shalom 2002) and control of F-8C aircraft (Athans et al. 2002).
