359–367, 2018.
[16] R.
Takano, H.
Oyama, and M.
Yamakita, “Application of robust control barrier function with stochastic disturbance model for discrete time systems,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
51, no.
31, pp.
46–51, 2018.
[17] Y.
Wang and X.
Xu, “Disturbance observer-based robust control barrier functions,” in American Control Conference, pp.
3681–3687, 2023.
[18] M.
A.
Gomez, C.
D.
Cruz-Ancona, and L.
Fridman, “On the notion of safe sliding mode control,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.01847, 2022.
[19] M.
A.
Gomez, C.
D.
Cruz-Ancona, and L.
Fridman, “Safe sliding mode control,” in 19th International Conference on Electrical Engineering, Computing Science and Automatic Control (CCE), pp.
1–6, 2022.
[20] F.
Ding, J.
Ke, W.
Jin, J.
He, and X.
Duan, “Guaranteed stabilization and safety of nonlinear systems via sliding mode control,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
7, pp.
3367–3372, 2023.
[21] P.
Ong and J.
Cortes, “Universal formula for smooth safe stabilization,” ´ in 2019 IEEE 58th conference on decision and control (CDC), pp.
2373– 2378, IEEE, 2019.
[22] D.
Shevitz and B.
Paden, “Lyapunov stability theory of nonsmooth systems,” IEEE Transactions on automatic control, vol.
39, no.
9, pp.
1910–1914, 1994.
[23] A.
Alan, A.
J.
Taylor, C.
R.
He, G.
Orosz, and A.
D.
Ames, “Safe controller synthesis with tunable input-to-state safe control barrier functions,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
6, pp.
908–913, 2021.
[24] B.
Li, S.
Wen, Z.
Yan, G.
Wen, and T.
Huang, “A survey on the control lyapunov function and control barrier function for nonlinear-affine control systems,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
10, no.
3, pp.
584–602, 2023.
[25] M.
Z.
Romdlony and B.
Jayawardhana, “Stabilization with guaranteed safety using control lyapunov–barrier function,” Automatica, vol.
66, pp.
39–47, 2016.
[26] M.
Desai and A.
Ghaffari, “Auxiliary control to avoid undesirable equilibria in constrained quadratic programs for trajectory tracking applications,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
39, no.
3, pp.
2078– 2092, 2023.
