# 15.4.1 The Deterministic Case—Perfect Matching

For Algorithms I, II and III the equation for the a posteriori adaptation error has the form:

$$\nu (t + 1) = H \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) \left[ \theta - \hat {\theta} (t + 1) \right] ^ {T} \Phi (t) \tag {15.57}$$

where:

$$H (q ^ {- 1}) = \frac {A _ {M} (q ^ {- 1}) G (q ^ {- 1})}{P (q ^ {- 1}) L (q ^ {- 1})}, \quad \Phi = \phi_ {f} \tag {15.58}$$

Neglecting the non-commutativity of time-varying operators, one can straightforwardly use Theorem 3.2, Chap. 3, for the analysis of the algorithms. One has the following result:

Lemma 15.2 Assuming that (15.57) represents the evolution of the a posteriori adaptation error and that the parameter adaption algorithm (15.48) through (15.52) is used, one has:

$$\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} v (t + 1) = 0 \tag {15.59}\lim _ {t \rightarrow \infty} \frac {\left[ v ^ {0} (t + 1) ^ {2} \right]}{1 + \Phi (t) ^ {T} F (t) \Phi (t)} = 0 \tag {15.60}\| \Phi (t) \| \text { is bounded } \tag {15.61}\lim _ {t \to \infty} \nu^ {0} (t + 1) = 0 \tag {15.62}$$

for any initial conditions $\hat { \theta } ( 0 ) , \nu ^ { 0 } ( 0 ) , F ( 0 )$ , provided that:

$$H ^ {\prime} (z ^ {- 1}) = H (z ^ {- 1}) - \frac {\lambda_ {2}}{2}, \quad \max _ {t} [ \lambda_ {2} (t) ] \leq \lambda_ {2} < 2 \tag {15.63}$$

is a strictly positive real transfer function.

Proof Using Theorem 3.2, under the condition (15.63), (15.59) and (15.60) hold. However, in order to show that $\nu ^ { 0 } ( t + 1 )$ goes to zero one has to show first that the components of the observation vector are bounded. The result (15.60) suggests to use the Goodwin’s “bounded growth” lemma (Lemma 11.1). Provided that one has:

$$\left| \Phi^ {T} (t) F (t) \Phi (t) \right| ^ {\frac {1}{2}} \leq C _ {1} + C _ {2} \max _ {0 \leq k \leq t + 1} \left| v ^ {0} (k) \right| \tag {15.64}0 < C _ {1} < \infty , 0 < C _ {2} < \infty , F (t) > 0 \tag {15.65}$$

$\| \phi ( t ) \|$ will be bounded. So it will be shown that (15.64) holds for Algorithm I (for Algorithms II and III the proof is similar). From (15.39) one has:

$$- \hat {z} (t) = v (t) - z (t) \tag {15.66}$$

Since $z ( t )$ is bounded (output of an asymptotically stable system with bounded input), one has:

$$| - \hat {y} _ {f} (t) | = | - G \hat {y} (t) | = | - \hat {z} (t) | \leq C _ {3} + C _ {4} \max _ {0 \leq k \leq t + 1} | \nu (k) |\leq C _ {3} ^ {\prime} + C _ {4} ^ {\prime} \max _ {0 \leq k \leq t + 1} | \nu^ {0} (k) | \tag {15.67}0 < C _ {3}, C _ {4}, C _ {3} ^ {\prime}, C ^ {\prime} 4 < \infty \tag {15.68}$$
