# REFERENCES

[1] H.
A.
Hashim, “A geometric nonlinear stochastic filter for simultaneous localization and mapping,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
111, p.
106569, 2021.
[2] Y.
F.
Chen, N.
K.
Ure, G.
Chowdhary, J.
P.
How, and J.
Vian, “Planning for large-scale multiagent problems via hierarchical decomposition with applications to UAV health management,” in 2014 American Control Conference.
IEEE, 2014, pp.
1279–1285.
[3] N.
Cheng, S.
Wu, X.
Wang, Z.
Yin, C.
Li, W.
Chen, and F.
Chen, “Ai for UAV-assisted iot applications: A comprehensive review,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2023.
[4] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, “UWB ranging and IMU data fusion: Overview and nonlinear stochastic filter for inertial navigation,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2023.
[5] A.
Khan, E.
Yanmaz, and B.
Rinner, “Information exchange and decision making in micro aerial vehicle networks for cooperative search,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
2, no.
4, pp.
335–347, 2015.
[6] R.
Bardera, A.
A.
Rodriguez-Sevillano, E.
Barroso, and J.
C.
Matias, “Numerical analysis of a biomimetic UAV with variable length grids wingtips,” Results in Engineering, vol.
18, p.
101087, 2023.
[7] Y.
Huo, X.
Dong, T.
Lu, W.
Xu, and M.
Yuen, “Distributed and multilayer UAV networks for next-generation wireless communication and power transfer: A feasibility study,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol.
6, no.
4, pp.
7103–7115, 2019.
[8] L.
Bartolomei, L.
Teixeira, and M.
Chli, “Fast multi-UAV decentralized exploration of forests,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2023.
[9] A.
V.
Jonnalagadda and H.
A.
Hashim, “SegNet: A segmented deep learning based convolutional neural network approach for drones wildfire detection,” Remote Sensing Applications: Society and Environment, p.
101181, 2024.
[10] M.
Hassanalian and A.
Abdelkefi, “Classifications, applications, and design challenges of drones: A review,” Progress in Aerospace Sciences, vol.
91, pp.
99–131, 2017.
[11] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and A.
Odry, “Observer-based controller for vtol-UAVs tracking using direct vision-aided inertial navigation measurements,” ISA transactions, vol.
137, pp.
133–143, 2023.
[12] H.
A.
Hashim, “Exponentially stable observer-based controller for VTOL-UAVs without velocity measurements,” International Journal of Control, vol.
96, no.
8, pp.
1946–1960, 2023.
