# REFERENCES

[1] H.
A.
Hashim, “Exponentially stable observer-based controller for vtoluavs without velocity measurements,” International Journal of Control, vol.
96, no.
8, pp.
1946–1960, 2023.
[2] B.
Alzahrani, O.
S.
Oubbati, A.
Barnawi, M.
Atiquzzaman, and D.
Alghazzawi, “Uav assistance paradigm: State-of-the-art in applications and challenges,” Journal of Network and Computer Applications, vol.
166, p.
102706, 2020.
[3] M.
Ghamari, P.
Rangel, M.
Mehrubeoglu, G.
Tewolde, and R.
S.
Sherratt, “Unmanned aerial vehicle communications for civil applications: a review,” IEEE Access, 2022.
[4] A.
M.
Ali, A.
Gupta, and H.
A.
Hashim, “Deep reinforcement learning for sim-to-real policy transfer of vtol-uavs offshore docking operations,” Applied Soft Computing, p.
111843, 2024.
[5] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, “UWB ranging and IMU data fusion: Overview and nonlinear stochastic filter for inertial navigation,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.
25, pp.
359–369, 2024.
[6] H.
A.
Hashim, “A geometric nonlinear stochastic filter for simultaneous localization and mapping,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
111, p.
106569, 2021.
[7] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and A.
Odry, “Observer-based controller for vtol-uavs tracking using direct vision-aided inertial navigation measurements,” ISA transactions, vol.
137, pp.
133–143, 2023.
[8] A.
V.
Jonnalagadda and H.
A.
Hashim, “Segnet: A segmented deep learning based convolutional neural network approach for drones wildfire detection,” Remote Sensing Applications: Society and Environment, p.
101181, 2024.
[9] S.
Formentin and M.
Lovera, “Flatness-based control of a quadrotor helicopter via feedforward linearization,” in 50th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control Conference.
IEEE, 2011, pp.
6171–6176.
[10] S.
Bouabdallah, A.
Noth, and R.
Siegwart, “Pid vs lq control techniques applied to an indoor micro quadrotor,” in 2004 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)(IEEE Cat.
No.
04CH37566), vol.
3.
IEEE, 2004, pp.
2451–2456.
[11] E.
Okyere, A.
Bousbaine, G.
T.
Poyi, A.
K.
Joseph, and J.
M.
Andrade, “Lqr controller design for quad-rotor helicopters,” The Journal of Engineering, vol.
2019, no.
17, pp.
4003–4007, 2019.
[12] J.
Kim, S.
A.
Gadsden, and S.
A.
