Wilkerson, “A comprehensive survey of control strategies for autonomous quadrotors,” Canadian Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering, vol.
43, no.
1, pp.
3–16, 2019.
[13] S.
Mathisen, K.
Gryte, S.
Gros, and T.
Johansen, “Precision deep-stall landing of fixed-wing uavs using nonlinear model predictive control,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
101, pp.
1–15, 2021.
[14] D.
Huo, L.
Dai, R.
Chai, R.
Xue, and Y.
Xia, “Collision-free model predictive trajectory tracking control for uavs in obstacle environment,” IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 2022.
[15] R.
Xue and et al., “Compound tracking control based on mpc for quadrotors with disturbances,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol.
359, no.
15, pp.
7992–8013, 2022.
[16] A.
Shevidi and H.
A.
Hashim, “Quaternion-based adaptive backstepping fast terminal sliding mode control for quadrotor uavs with finite time convergence,” Results in Engineering, p.
102497, 2024.
[17] M.
Danesh, A.
Jalalaei, and R.
E.
Derakhshan, “Auto-landing algorithm for quadrotor uav using super-twisting second-order sliding mode control in the presence of external disturbances,” International Journal of Dynamics and Control, pp.
1–18, 2023.
[18] C.
Kwan and F.
L.
Lewis, “Robust backstepping control of nonlinear systems using neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
30, no.
6, pp.
753–766, 2000.
[19] G.
P.
Incremona and A.
Ferrara, “Guidance of quadrotor unmanned aerial vehicles via adaptive multiple-surface sliding mode control,” in American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
2191–2196.
[20] A.
Bist and S.
Sondhi, “A state observer-based fractional-order approach for trajectory tracking and attitude control of a quadrotor,” IETE Journal of Research, pp.
1–17, 2023.
[21] J.
Zhao and et al., “A sliding mode control algorithm based on improved super-twisting and its application to quadrotors,” Journal of Control and Decision, vol.
10, no.
3, pp.
433–442, 2023.
[22] A.
Belmouhoub and et al., “Fast terminal synergetic control for morphing quadcopter with time-varying parameters,” Aerospace Science and Technology, p.
108540, 2023.
[23] H.
A.
Hashim, “Special orthogonal group so(3), euler angles, angleaxis, rodriguez vector and unit-quaternion: Overview, mapping and challenges,” ArXiv preprint ArXiv:1909.06669, 2019.
