# References

[1] D. P. Bertsekas et al., Dynamic programming and optimal control 3rd edition, volume II. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 2007.   
[2] R. E. Kalman et al., “Contributions to the theory of optimal control,” Bol. soc. mat. mexicana, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 102–119, 1960.   
[3] E. W. Dijkstra et al., “A note on two problems in connexion with graphs,” Numerische mathematik, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 269–271, 1959.   
[4] A. Rantzer, “Explicit solution to Bellman equation for positive systems with linear cost,” in 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2022, pp. 6154–6155.   
[5] Y. Li and A. Rantzer, “Exact dynamic programming for positive systems with linear optimal cost,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2024.   
[6] F. Blanchini, P. Bolzern, P. Colaneri, G. De Nicolao, and G. Giordano, “Optimal control of compartmental models: The exact solution,” Automatica, vol. 147, p. 110680, 2023.   
[7] A. Rantzer, “Relaxed dynamic programming in switching systems,” IEE Proceedings-Control Theory and Applications, vol. 153, no. 5, pp. 567–574, 2006.   
[8] S. Boyd and L. Vandenberghe, Convex Optimization. Cambridge University Press, 2004.   
[9] B. Bamieh, F. Paganini, and M. Dahleh, “Distributed control of spatially invariant systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 47, no. 7, pp. 1091–1107, 2002.

[10] B. Bamieh, M. R. Jovanovic, P. Mitra, and S. Patterson, “Coherence in large-scale networks: Dimension-dependent limitations of local feedback,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 57, no. 9, pp. 2235–2249, 2012.   
[11] T. H. Shinji Hara and H. Sugata, “LTI systems with generalized frequency variables: A unified framework for homogeneous multi-agent dynamical systems,” SICE Journal of Control, Measurement, and System Integration, vol. 2, no. 5, pp. 299–306, 2009.   
[12] A. Gurpegui, E. Tegling, and A. Rantzer, “Minimax linear optimal control of positive systems,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, 2023.   
[13] D. Ohlin, E. Tegling, and A. Rantzer, “Optimal control of linear cost networks,” European Journal of Control, p. 101068, 2024.
