Tabuada, “On event-triggered and self-triggered control over sensor/actuator networks,” in 2008 47th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control.
IEEE, 2008, pp.
435–440.
[24] P.
Ong and J.
Cortes, “Performance-barrier-based event-triggered ´ control with applications to network systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
7, pp.
4230–4244, 2024.

[25] B.
Rathnayake and M.
Diagne, “Observer-based periodic eventtriggered boundary control of the one-phase Stefan problem,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
56, no.
2, pp.
11 415–11 422, 2023.
[26] ——, “Observer-based event-triggered boundary control of the onephase Stefan problem,” International Journal of Control, pp.
1–12, 2024.
[27] ——, “Observer-based periodic event-triggered and self-triggered boundary control of a class of parabolic PDEs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
12, pp.
8836–8843, 2024.
[28] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, J.
Cortes, and M.
Krstic, “Performancebarrier-based event-triggered boundary control of a class of reactiondiffusion PDEs,” in 2024 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2024, pp.
5313–5319.
[29] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, N.
Espitia, and I.
Karafyllis, “Observerbased event-triggered boundary control of a class of reaction– diffusion PDEs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
6, pp.
2905–2917, 2022.
[30] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, and I.
Karafyllis, “Sampled-data and event-triggered boundary control of a class of reaction–diffusion PDEs with collocated sensing and actuation,” Automatica, vol.
137, p.
110026, 2022.
[31] M.
Seidel, M.
Hertneck, P.
Yu, S.
Linsenmayer, D.
V.
Dimarogonas, and F.
Allgower, “A window-based periodic event-triggered ¨ consensus scheme for multi-agent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, 2024.
[32] A.
Selivanov and E.
Fridman, “Distributed event-triggered control of diffusion semilinear PDEs,” Automatica, vol.
68, pp.
344–351, 2016.
[33] A.
Smyshlyaev and M.
Krstic, “Closed-form boundary state feedbacks for a class of 1-D partial integro-differential equations,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic control, vol.
49, no.
12, pp.
2185– 2202, 2004.
[34] P.
Tallapragada and J.
Cortes, “Event-triggered stabilization of linear ´ systems under bounded bit rates,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
61, no.
6, pp.
1575–1589, 2016.
[35] A.
J.
Taylor, P.
Ong, J.
Cortes, and A.
D.
Ames, “Safety-critical ´ event triggered control via input-to-state safe barrier functions,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
5, no.
3, pp.
749–754, 2021.
[36] M.
Wakaiki and H.
Sano, “Stability analysis of infinite-dimensional event-triggered and self-triggered control systems with lipschitz perturbations,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.12916, 2019.
