Sakai, “Mutual validation of remote hydraulic estimates and flow model simulations using UAVborne lidar and deep learning-based imaging techniques,” Results in Engineering, vol.
20, p.
101415, 2023.
[29] L.
Medina, G.
Guerra, M.
Herrera, L.
Guevara, and O.
Camacho, “Trajectory tracking for non-holonomic mobile robots: A comparison of sliding mode control approaches,” Results in Engineering, p.
102105, 2024.
[30] S.
Mobayen, “Design of cnf-based nonlinear integral sliding surface for matched uncertain linear systems with multiple state-delays,” Nonlinear Dynamics, vol.
77, no.
3, pp.
1047–1054, 2014.
[31] R.
Alika, E.
M.
Mellouli, and E.
H.
Tissir, “A modified sliding mode controller based on fuzzy logic to control the longitudinal dynamics of the autonomous vehicle,” Results in Engineering, p.
102120, 2024.
[32] M.
said Adouairi, B.
Bossoufi, S.
Motahhir, and I.
Saady, “Application of fuzzy sliding mode control on a single-stage grid-connected pv system based on the voltage-oriented control strategy,” Results in Engineering, vol.
17, p.
100822, 2023.
[33] M.
Labbadi and M.
Cherkaoui, “Robust adaptive backstepping fast terminal sliding mode controller for uncertain quadrotor UAV,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
93, p.
105306, 2019.
[34] M.
Labbadi, Y.
Boukal, and M.
Cherkaoui, “Path following control of quadrotor UAV with continuous fractional-order super twisting sliding mode,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
100, pp.
1429– 1451, 2020.
[35] O.
Mofid and S.
Mobayen, “Adaptive finite-time backstepping global sliding mode tracker of quad-rotor UAVs under model uncertainty, wind perturbation, and input saturation,” IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol.
58, no.
1, pp.
140–151, 2021.
[36] F.
Zheng, T.
Fan, M.
Xu, J.
Zhang, and F.
Cheng, “Adaptive fractional order non-singular terminal sliding mode anti-disturbance control for advanced layout carrier-based UAV,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
139, p.
108367, 2023.
[37] J.
Sanwale, S.
Dahiya, P.
Trivedi, and M.
Kothari, “Robust faulttolerant adaptive integral dynamic sliding mode control using finite-time disturbance observer for coaxial octorotor UAVs,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
135, p.
105495, 2023.
[38] K.
Ahmadi, D.
Asadi, A.
Merheb, S.-Y.
Nabavi-Chashmi, and O.
