# 7 Conclusions

We presented a formal description of Cyber Physical Games, and how they arise from emergent properties of multi-agent Cyber Physical Systems. Critically, we showed that multiple agents operating within a Cyber Physical System give rise to behavior that can be modeled as, and is in fact equivalent to, probabilistic finite state automata. This behavior can hinder the execution of all agents in a Cyber Physical Game, if it is not taken into account; thus, we introduced an algorithm for determining the most likely sequence of events.

IT is clear that, at least at a fundamental micro level, Cyber Physical Systems can never be free of non-determinism. It affects every interaction between cyber systems and the underlying environment, making the outcome of every action tuple probabilistic. What is not clear, though, is how impactful this is at the macro level; what are the implications for system performance, reliability, security, etc.? In other words, are Cyber Physical Games useful modeling constructs at the micro level that can be abstracted away in favor of deterministic constructs at the macro scale; or, must we model non-deterministically all the way up? If so, how to best engineer each individual agent, or groups of agents?

Answering these questions requires further research on the theoretical and empirical fronts. On the theoretical side, further development of the theory of Cyber Physical Games -particularly, with many agents- and study of the emergent statistical properties is required. Again, we believe the Multi-armed bandit framework is a promising direction, but many other approaches are possible. On the empirical front, profiling of instances of Cyber Physical Systems can tell us what are the relevant probability distributions, and how much, at the macro level, are systems afflicted by non-determinism.
