Remark 5 In [27], the authors develop observer-based PETC and STC strategies equipped with strictly decreasing Lyapunov functions, for a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs. We refer to them as regular PETC (R-PETC) and regular STC (R-STC) to differentiate them from the P-PETC and P-STC introduced in Sections 3.2.3 and 3.2.4, respectively. It is important to underscore that the P-PETC and P-STC proposed here generalize the full-state feedback versions of the R-PETC and R-STC proposed in [27] by allowing for Lyapunov functions that are not decreasing at all times. By setting $c = 0 .$ , one can recover the R-PETC and R-STC from the corresponding P-PETC and P-STC.

Remark 6 For the R/P-CETC, R-PETC, and R-STC, the event-trigger parameter $\eta > 0$ can be freely selected (see Theorem 1 and the reference [27]). However, for both P-PETC and P-STC, $\eta > 0$ should be chosen such that $\eta \leq$ $2 b / B ,$ as specified by (78). Some readers might question if this upper bound constraint on η places the P-PETC and P-STC at a disadvantage compared to the R-PETC and R-STC. However, we would like to emphasize that increasing η beyond $2 b / B$ does not enhance the theoretical convergence guarantee (performance-barrier). This is because the exponential decay $b ^ { * }$ in the estimate (37) and (64) is given by b∗ = min $\left\{ \frac { 2 b } { B } , \eta \right\}$ (see (54)). Thus, for $\begin{array} { r } { \eta > { \frac { 2 b } { B } } } \end{array}$ , the decay rate remains $\begin{array} { r } { b ^ { * } = \frac { 2 b } { B } } \end{array}$ , regardless of how large η becomes.
