# A. Discussion

To evaluate the performance, a rigid symmetric body of UAV with mass m and inertia ${ { J } _ { m } } = d i a g ( { { J } _ { 1 1 } } , { { J } _ { 2 2 } } , { { J } _ { 4 4 } } )$ are assumed. The main goal is to track the desired position trajectory while the unknown time-varying uncertainties exist in parameters. The proposed control and UAV model parameters are provided in Table I. The total time of simulation is set to 100 seconds. The proposed QABC is used as the translational control input to track the desired position and control linear velocity. Then, to overcome the underactuated issue of UAV, it generates the total thrust and desired attitude. Fig. 1 demonstrates the output performance of UAV controlled by the proposed QABC and QASMC. Fig. 1 confirms the robust and smooth performance of the proposed control system and its ability to track the UAV to the desired trajectory, despite the presence of unknown time-varying parameter uncertainties and large initial errors. The errors are depicted to converge from large initial errors to zero (equilibrium point). The rotational torque and thrust inputs are bounded, smooth, and robust in the presence of uncertainties, as shown in Fig. 1.

TABLE I 

<table><tr><td>Control Parameters</td><td>Value</td><td>System Parameters</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td> $\theta_x$ </td><td>0.8</td><td>m</td><td>3.5kg</td></tr><tr><td> $\theta_y$ </td><td>0.5</td><td> $J_{11}$ </td><td> $2kg.m^2$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\theta_z$ </td><td>0.4</td><td> $J_{22}$ </td><td> $2kg.m^2$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\gamma_1$ </td><td>10</td><td> $J_{33}$ </td><td> $3.5kg.m^2$ </td></tr><tr><td>g</td><td> $9.8m/s^2$ </td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td> $c_1$ </td><td>3</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td> $c_2$ </td><td>5</td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>
