Tutsoy, “Active fault-tolerant control of quadrotor UAVs with nonlinear observer-based sliding mode control validated through hardware in the

loop experiments,” Control Engineering Practice, vol. 137, p. 105557, 2023.   
[39] B. Gao, Y.-J. Liu, and L. Liu, “Adaptive neural fault-tolerant control of a quadrotor UAV via fast terminal sliding mode,” Aerospace Science and Technology, p. 107818, 2022.   
[40] T. Xie, B. Xian, and X. Gu, “Fixed-time convergence attitude control for a tilt trirotor unmanned aerial vehicle based on reinforcement learning,” ISA transactions, vol. 132, pp. 477–489, 2023.   
[41] C. Kwan and F. L. Lewis, “Robust backstepping control of nonlinear systems using neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics-Part A: Systems and Humans, vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 753– 766, 2000.   
[42] H. A. Hashim, “Special Orthogonal Group SO(3), Euler Angles, Angleaxis, Rodriguez Vector and Unit-quaternion: Overview, Mapping and Challenges,” ArXiv preprint ArXiv:1909.06669, 2019.   
[43] J. Espin, C. Camacho, and O. Camacho, “Control of non-self-regulating processes with long time delays using hybrid sliding mode control approaches,” Results in Engineering, vol. 22, p. 102113, 2024.   
[44] Y. Zhao, X. Sun, G. Wang, and Y. Fan, “Adaptive backstepping sliding mode tracking control for underactuated unmanned surface vehicle with disturbances and input saturation,” Ieee Access, vol. 9, pp. 1304–1312, 2020.   
[45] S. Mobayen, “An adaptive fast terminal sliding mode control combined with global sliding mode scheme for tracking control of uncertain nonlinear third-order systems,” Nonlinear Dynamics, vol. 82, no. 1-2, pp. 599–610, 2015.   
[46] C. Hua, J. Chen, and X. Guan, “Fractional-order sliding mode control of uncertain QUAVs with time-varying state constraints,” Nonlinear Dynamics, vol. 95, pp. 1347–1360, 2019.
