[16] H.
Liu, J.
Xi, and Y.
Zhong, “Robust attitude stabilization for nonlinear quadrotor systems with uncertainties and delays,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol.
64, no.
7, pp.
5585–5594, 2017.
[17] T.
Ryan and H.
J.
Kim, “Lmi-based gain synthesis for simple robust quadrotor control,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol.
10, no.
4, pp.
1173–1178, 2013.
[18] I.
Lopez-Sanchez and J.
Moreno-Valenzuela, “Pid control of quadrotor UAVs: A survey,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
56, p.
100900, 2023.
[19] L.
Martins, C.
Cardeira, and P.
Oliveira, “Linear quadratic regulator for trajectory tracking of a quadrotor,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
52, no.
12, pp.
176–181, 2019.
[20] O.
Mofid, S.
Mobayen, C.
Zhang, and B.
Esakki, “Desired tracking of delayed quadrotor UAV under model uncertainty and wind disturbance using adaptive super-twisting terminal sliding mode control,” ISA transactions, vol.
123, pp.
455–471, 2022.
[21] B.
Lindqvist, S.
S.
Mansouri, A.-a.
Agha-mohammadi, and G.
Nikolakopoulos, “Nonlinear mpc for collision avoidance and control of UAVs with dynamic obstacles,” IEEE robotics and automation letters, vol.
5, no.
4, pp.
6001–6008, 2020.
[22] J.
Willis, J.
Johnson, and R.
W.
Beard, “State-dependent lqr control for a tilt-rotor UAV,” in 2020 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
4175–4181.
[23] D.
Saccani, L.
Cecchin, and L.
Fagiano, “Multitrajectory model predictive control for safe UAV navigation in an unknown environment,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 2022.
[24] K.
Zhang, Y.
Shi, and H.
Sheng, “Robust nonlinear model predictive control based visual servoing of quadrotor UAVs,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol.
26, no.
2, pp.
700–708, 2021.
[25] A.
M.
Ali, H.
A.
Hashim, and C.
Shen, “MPC based linear equivalence with control barrier functions for VTOL-UAVs,” in 2024 IEEE American Control Conference (ACC), 2024, pp.
1–6.
[26] M.
Vahdanipour and M.
Khodabandeh, “Adaptive fractional order sliding mode control for a quadrotor with a varying load,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
86, pp.
737–747, 2019.
[27] J.
Baek, M.
Jin, and S.
Han, “A new adaptive sliding-mode control scheme for application to robot manipulators,” IEEE Transactions on industrial electronics, vol.
63, no.
6, pp.
3628–3637, 2016.
[28] M.
T.
Islam, K.
Yoshida, S.
Nishiyama, and K.
