# 6 Conclusion

In this research, nonlinear modeling of a quadrotor and robust backstepping controller design resistant to white Gaussian noise and colored noises were carried out. A comparative robustness analysis was performed with PID and Lyapunov-based controllers to prove the robustness of the backstepping controller. These three controllers were compared under band-limited Gaussian white noise, under pink noise, under brown noise, under blue noise, and under purple noise. Rise time, overshoot, and settling time values of controllers were acquired under all these conditions. When the results were examined, it was observed that the backstepping control structure presented the least overshoot and the shortest settling time. PID and Lyapunov-based controllers did not have settling time because they suffered excessive distortion under colored noises. PID and Lyapunov-based controllers showed high overshoot under colored noises. Additionally, the backstepping controller is the only controller with a settling time in all references. PID and Lyapunov-based controllers are less robust to noise and, therefore, do not have a settling time in many reference tracking simulations. Since the Lyapunov-based controller does not reach 90% of the given reference in almost any of the simulations, there is no rise time data. When all these results are evaluated, it is clear that the backstepping control is the most robust controller. It is the controller that shows the least overshoot and has the shortest settling time under all conditions.
