A reservoir has a hydraulic head state. A junction has a head state and a flow state, denoting the junction demand. It includes a junction mass estimator, jmass, that enforces mass preservation (the equivalence of inflow and outflow). A tank has a shape state and a head state. The tank mass estimator, tmass, adheres to the mass preservation principle. The initial condition, along with the tank’s inflow and outflow, determines water storage and, consequently, the tank’s head state. Link nodes have a shape state and a flow state. An energy estimator, energy, models the preservation of flow and head across the link. It uses the head state difference at the link’s edges as input and determines the flow state within the link.

Given a water distribution network graph, $G = \langle V , E \rangle$ , the state estimation translation function for the $\mathcal { W D N }$ domain is defined as $\tau ( \langle V , E \rangle ) = \langle \mathsf { V } , \mathsf { E } \rangle$ where

$\mathsf{V} = \mathcal{S}$ $\cup \{v.\text{head} \mid v \in V^r\}$ $\cup \{v.\text{head}, v.\text{flow}, v.\text{jmass} \mid v \in V^j\}$ $\cup \{v.\text{shape}, v.\text{head}, v.\text{tmass} \mid v \in V^t\}$ $\cup \{v.\text{shape}, v.\text{flow}, v.\text{energy} \mid v \in V^l\}$ $\mathsf{E} = \{(v.\text{shape}, v.\text{tmass}) \mid v \in V^t\}$ $\cup \{(v.\text{shape}, v.\text{energy}) \mid v \in V^l\}$ $\cup \{(v_l.\text{flow}, v_c.\text{mass}), (v_c.\text{mass}, v_l.\text{flow}),$ $(v_c.\text{head}, v_l.\text{energy}) \mid (v_l, v_c) \in E \lor (v_c, v_l) \in E\}$ $\cup \{(s_p, v.\text{head}) \mid (v, s_p) \in E\}$ $\cup \{(s_f, v_e.\text{flow}) \mid (v, s_f) \in E\}$

The connections in the state estimation graph define the dependencies among states and the estimation functions, as well as the states measured at sensing points.

The agent repository consists of a set of roles and the agent mapping. Agent roles are defined by behaviours that process input states (measured or estimated) and output states (measured or estimated) according to the estimation model and sensing points. Agent roles are defined as: $F = F ^ { s } \cup F ^ { g } \cup F ^ { a }$ , where
