For example, the reasoning engine can identify the estimation trees for estimating or measuring the tank.head state. Fig. 7 (bottom) presents an overlay of seven state estimator trees, $\{ \mathsf { T } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 } , \hdots , \mathsf { T } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 7 } \}$ , where each tree specifies a configuration for estimating or measuring the tank.head state. The colours blue and red highlight the estimator trees, $\mathsf { T } _ { \mathsf { s i m } } ^ { 1 }$ and $\mathsf { T } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 2 } ,$ respectively, corresponding to the two control schemes described in the running example in Sec. II-D of the main paper. The diagram also maps nodes within the trees to specific hardware devices.

A state estimator tree information enables reasoning on control scheme interactions. For instance, consider a local configuration involving the roles of a level sensor, a controller, and a pump:

$$
\begin{array}{l} S _ {\text { sim }} ^ {1} = s _ {h}: \text { loop   t.c. } \text { head.t }, \\ u: \text { loop   } t. (c _ {?} O N. t + c _ {?} O F F. t), \\ c: \text { loop   } t. s _ {h?} \text {   head.   } (u _ {!} O N. t + u _ {!} O F F. t) \\ \end{array}
$$

Using the agent repository, the semantic reasoning engine can construct $S _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 }$ a1 as an implementation of estimator tree, $\mathsf { T } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 } ,$ by mapping s6 to the level sensor role, $\mathsf { S } _ { \mathsf { h } }$ . Also, it holds that $\bar { S _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 } } \vdash \bar { G } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 } ,$ , confirming that $S _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 }$ is live, where:

$$G _ {\text { sim }} ^ {1} = \text { loop t.s } _ {h} \to c: \text { head. } (c \to u: \text { ON.t } + c \to u: \text { OFF.t })$$

Consider the case where the event manager detects a failure in sensor s6. The event manager updates the knowledge base by removing sensor ${ \mathsf { S } } _ { 6 }$ . It will then trigger the semantic reasoning to reconfigure the control loop.

Figure 8 (top) shows the CodeOcean simulation result, which generates an iCPS-DL description of $S _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 }$ Additionally, Figure 9 (top) presents the Mermaid diagram for the state estimator tree ${ \sf T } _ { \mathrm { s i m } } ^ { 1 } ,$ also produced by the CodeOcean simulation.
