subgraph_Bottom_1["Pump"]
        j1["j1"] --> s1["s1"]
        s1 --> dev1["dev1"]
        pump["pump"] --> s2["s2"]
        pump --> s3["s3"]
        pump --> s4["s4"]
        pump --> s5["s5"]
        pump --> s6["s6"]
        pump --> s7["s7"]
        pump --> s8["s8"]
        pump --> y1["y1"]
        y1 --> y2["y2"]
        y2 --> y3["y3"]
        y3 --> y4["y4"]
        y4 --> y5["y5"]
        y5 --> y6["y6"]
        y6 --> y7["y7"]
        y7 --> y8["y8"]
    end

subgraph_Bottom_2["Pump"]
        j2["j2"] --> s3["s3"]
        s3 --> dev1["dev1"]
        pump["pump"] --> s4["s4"]
        pump --> s5["s5"]
        pump --> s6["s6"]
        pump --> s7["s7"]
        pump --> s8["s8"]
        pump --> y1
        y1 --> y2
        y2 --> y3
        y3 --> y4
        y4 --> y5
        y5 --> y6
        y6 --> y7
        y7 --> y8
    end

subgraph_Bottom_3["Dev 1"]
        j1["j1"] --> s1
        s1 --> dev1
        pump["j2"] --> s2
        pump --> s3
        pump --> s4
        pump --> s5
        pump --> s6
        pump --> s7
        pump --> s8
    end

style Top_1 fill:#f9f,stroke:#333
    style Bottom_1 fill:#ccf,stroke:#333
    style Bottom_2 fill:#cfc,stroke:#333
```
</details>

Fig. 7. Top: Graphical representation of the water distribution network, $\mathsf { W D N } _ { \mathrm { { s i m } } } ,$ of the running example in Fig. 2 of the main paper. Middle: Graphical representation of the analytical redundancy graph of WDNsim. Bottom: Graphical representation of seven analytical redundancy trees, $\mathsf { T } _ { \mathsf { s i m } } ^ { 1 } \cup \cdots \cup \mathsf { T } _ { \mathsf { s i m } } ^ { \frac { 1 } { 2 } }$ (shape coefficients are not depicted) rooted at tank.head, with a hardware device assignment for each node.

The knowledge base module of the autonomic supervisor stores the semantic description water distribution network knowledge graph, together with the WDN domain and the agent repository.

The semantic reasoning engine can translate ${ \mathsf { W D N } } _ { \sin }$ to a state estimation graph, ${ \mathsf { G } } \ = \ \tau ( G )$ , which is depicted in Fig. 7 (middle). The state estimation graph contains information in the form of estimator trees, each rooted at a state node. These trees dictate how cyber-physical agents can be composed to measure or estimate their root state.
