$F^{s} = \mathsf{s}_{\mathrm{h}}:T_{\mathrm{h}},\mathsf{s}_{\mathrm{f}}:T_{\mathrm{f}}$ $F^g = \mathrm{jun}:T_{\mathrm{j}},\mathrm{link}:T_{\mathrm{l}},\mathrm{est}:T_{\mathrm{e}},,$ $F^{a} = \mathsf{u}:\mathsf{loop}\mathsf{t}.(\mathsf{pr}_?\mathsf{ON}.t + \mathsf{pr}_?\mathsf{OFF}.t)$

with

$T_{\mathrm{h}} = \text{loop t.cn!head.t},$ $T_{\mathrm{f}} = \text{loop t.cn!flow.t},$ $T_{\mathrm{j}} = \text{loop t.pr}_{1?}\text{flow.pr}_{2?}\text{flow.cn!flow.t},$ $T_{\mathrm{l}} = \text{loop t.pr}_{1?}\text{head.pr}_{2?}\text{head.cn!flow.t},$ $T_{\mathrm{e}} = \text{loop t.pr}_{1?}\text{flow.pr}_{2?}\text{flow.cn!head.t},$ $T_{\mathrm{u}} = \text{loop t.(pr}_?\text{ON.t} + \text{pr}_?\text{OFF.t)}$

There are three estimator roles. Role jun : Tj receives inflow and demand from $\mathsf { p r } _ { 1 }$ and $\mathsf { p r } _ { 2 } ,$ , respectively, and sends the outflow estimation to cn. Role est $: T _ { \mathrm { e } }$ receives inflow and outflow from $\mathsf { p r } _ { 1 }$ and $\mathsf { p r } _ { 2 }$ , respectively, and sends tank head estimations to cn. Role link : Tl receives head measurements at the edges of a link from $\mathsf { p r } _ { 1 }$ and ${ \mathsf { p r } } _ { 2 } ,$ respectively, and sends link flow estimations to cn. Note that mass estimators handle cases with two flow inputs. This specification remains general, as defining multiple estimators can handle systems with more flow inputs. Additionally, there are two sensor roles: Role $\mathsf { S } _ { \mathsf { f } } : T _ { \mathsf { f } }$ measures and outputs flow states. Role $s _ { \mathrm { h } } : T _ { \mathrm { h } }$ measures and outputs head states. Finally, the actuator role $\mathsf { u } : T _ { \mathsf { u } }$ describes pump interaction where a pump can receive a binary signal to turn on or off the pump.

The agent mapping is defined as:

$\mu = \{\quad \mathrm{jun}:T_{\mathrm{j}}\mapsto \mathrm{jmass},$ $\mathrm{est}:T_{\mathrm{e}}\mapsto \mathrm{tmass},$ link: $T_{1}\mapsto$ energy $\mathsf{s}_{\mathrm{f}}:T_{\mathrm{f}}\mapsto$ flow, $\mathsf{s}_{\mathrm{h}}T_{\mathrm{h}}\mapsto$ head, $\mathsf{u}:T_{\mathsf{u}}\mapsto u$ }
