# REFERENCES

[1] J.
Carlson, R.
Murphy, and A.
Nelson, “Follow-up analysis of mobile robot failures,” in IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2004.
Proceedings.
ICRA ’04.
2004, vol.
5, pp.
4987– 4994 Vol.5, April 2004.
[Accessed 13-09-2023].
[2] N.
Oliver, T.
Calvard, and K.
Potocnik, “Safe limits, mindful orga- ˇ nizing and loss of control in commercial aviation,” Safety Science, vol.
120, pp.
772–780, 2019.
[Accessed 13-09-2023].
[3] S.
Yang, Y.
Zhong, D.
Feng, R.
Y.
M.
Li, X.-F.
Shao, and W.
Liu, “Robot application and occupational injuries: Are robots necessarily safer?,” Safety Science, vol.
147, p.
105623, 2022.
[Accessed 13-09- 2023].
[4] M.
F.
Aslan, A.
Durdu, K.
Sabanci, E.
Ropelewska, and S.
S.
Gültekin, “A comprehensive survey of the recent studies with uav for precision agriculture in open fields and greenhouses,” Applied Sciences, vol.
12, no.
3, 2022.
[Accessed 13-09-2023].
[5] M.
H.
Nordin, S.
Sharma, A.
Khan, M.
Gianni, S.
Rajendran, and R.
Sutton, “Collaborative unmanned vehicles for inspection, maintenance, and repairs of offshore wind turbines,” Drones, vol.
6, no.
6, 2022.
[Accessed 13-09-2023].
[6] M.
P.
Nisingizwe, P.
Ndishimye, K.
Swaibu, L.
Nshimiyimana, P.
Karame, V.
Dushimiyimana, J.
P.
Musabyimana, C.
Musanabaganwa, S.
Nsanzimana, and M.
R.
Law, “Effect of unmanned aerial vehicle (drone) delivery on blood product delivery time and wastage in rwanda: a retrospective, cross-sectional study and time series analysis,” The Lancet Global Health, vol.
10, no.
4, pp.
e564–e569, 2022.
[Accessed 13-09-2023].
[7] S.
Hamaza, I.
Georgilas, G.
Heredia, A.
Ollero, and T.
Richardson, “Design, modeling, and control of an aerial manipulator for placement and retrieval of sensors in the environment,” Journal of Field Robotics, vol.
37, no.
7, pp.
1224–1245, 2020.
[Accessed 12-09-2023].
[8] P.
Zheng, F.
Xiao, P.
H.
Nguyen, A.
Farinha, and M.
Kovac, “Metamorphic aerial robot capable of mid-air shape morphing for rapid perching,” Scientific Reports, vol.
13, no.
1, p.
1297, 2023.
[Accessed 12-09-2023].
[9] S.
Sun and C.
de Visser, “Quadrotor safe flight envelope prediction in the high-speed regime: A monte-carlo approach,” in AIAA Scitech 2019 Forum, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2019.
[Accessed 15-09-2023].
[10] S.
Sun, G.
Cioffi, C.
De Visser, and D.
