# VI. TEMPORAL CONSISTENCY IN A CO-SIMULATION OF A CPS

The global behavior of a CPS emerges from the interactions of two loosely coupled subsystems, the PS and the CS. The interactions between these subsystems are realized by the transfer of ITOMS at recurring interaction instants. The information flow from the PS to the CS occurs at the input interaction instants. The information flow from the CS to the PS occurs at the output interaction instants. We can model the global behavior of a CPS by the composition of two independent black-box simulation models, one model for the PS and the other model for the CS, that interact at the abovementioned interaction instants.

If we assume that the temporal behavior of the PSsimulation model at the interaction instants is identical to the behavior of the PS we arrive at a real-time simulation model of the PS. In a real-time simulation model the rate of progress of the model-time corresponds to the rate of progress of physical time.

In a number of CPS applications, it is advantageous if models are developed where the model-time rate can be increased or decreased in relation to physical time. If the model time rates are increased w.r.t. physical time, then it is possible to study the future behavior of the CPS in a shorter physical time span.

In a co-simulation of a CPS, the chosen model times have to proceed at the same rate in the PS model and the CS model. The relevant input ITOMs acquired from the PS model have to be altered before the setpoint computation is started in the CS model in order to comply with the temporal consistency requirement of the future setpoint ITOM delivered from the CS model to the PS model. Let us assume that an input ITOM is a proper representation of the state of the PS model at the given input interaction instant (in the chosen model time). This input ITOM has to be extrapolated to the instant or the future setpoint ITOM, the output interaction instant (in the chosen model time) before the relevant computation is started in the CS model in order to arrive at a temporally consistent setpoint ITOM.
