# REFERENCES

[1] Andrei A Agrachev, A Stephen Morse, Eduardo D Sontag, Hector J ´ Sussmann, Vadim I Utkin, and Eduardo D Sontag. Input to state stability: Basic concepts and results. Nonlinear and optimal control theory: lectures given at the CIME summer school held in Cetraro, Italy June 19–29, 2004, pages 163–220, 2008.   
[2] Farid Al-Bender, Vincent Lampaert, and Jan Swevers. The generalized maxwell-slip model: a novel model for friction simulation and compensation. IEEE Transactions on automatic control, 50(11), 2005.   
[3] Brian Armstrong-Helouvry. Control of machines with friction, volume 128. Springer Science & Business Media, 1991.   
[4] Christopher G Atkeson, Chae H An, and John M Hollerbach. Estimation of inertial parameters of manipulator loads and links. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 5(3):101–119, 1986.   
[5] C Canudas-de Wit and P Lischinsky. Adaptive friction compensation with dynamic friction model. IFAC Proceedings Volumes, 29(1), 1996.   
[6] Xin Cheng, Xiao Tu, Yunfei Zhou, and Rougang Zhou. Active disturbance rejection control of multi-joint industrial robots based on dynamic feedforward. Electronics, 8(5):591, 2019.   
[7] C Canudas De Wit, Henrik Olsson, Karl Johan Astrom, and Pablo Lischinsky. A new model for control of systems with friction. IEEE Transactions on automatic control, 40(3):419–425, 1995.   
[8] Alexander Dietrich, Xuwei Wu, Kristin Bussmann, Marie Harder, Maged Iskandar, Johannes Englsberger, Christian Ott, and Alin Albu-Schaffer. Practical consequences of inertia shaping for interaction and ¨ tracking in robot control. Control Engineering Practice, 114, 2021.   
[9] Zhiqiang Gao et al. Scaling and bandwidth-parameterization based controller tuning. In Acc, volume 4, pages 989–4, 2003.
