# B. Results

A group of five UAVs is initially located within the inspection region at the random positions $\mathbf { p } _ { 1 } ^ { 0 } = [ 1 0 , 2 0 , 1 5 ] ^ { \circ } \mathbf { m } ,$ $\begin{array} { r l r l r l } { \mathbf { p } _ { 2 } ^ { 0 } } & { = } & { [ 3 0 , 9 , 1 4 ] ^ { T } \mathbf { m } , } & { \mathbf { p } _ { 3 } ^ { 0 } } & { = } & { [ 4 0 , 1 7 , 1 0 ] ^ { T } \mathbf { m } , } & { \mathbf { p } _ { 4 } ^ { 0 } } & { = } \end{array}$ $[ 1 5 , 3 0 , 5 ] ^ { T } \mathrm { m }$ , and $\mathbf { p } _ { 5 } ^ { 0 } = [ 2 5 , 2 0 , 1 0 ] ^ { T } \mathbf { m }$ , respectively. Each UAV initializes its target inspection status set with ones, as all target points are uninspected. By acquiring the positions of its neighbors, UAV i constructs its Voronoi region.

The initial Voronoi tessellation of the inspection region is illustrated in Fig. 2a, with the generating points being the initial positions of the UAVs. All Voronoi cells are colored with the corresponding UAV’s color. Afterward, each UAV calculates the centroid $C _ { V _ { i } }$ of its corresponding Voronoi cell and safely moves towards it. As the UAV i moves in the direction of $C _ { V _ { i } }$ , the projected target point $\bar { \mathbf q } _ { T } ^ { l }$ enters its sensing region. Then, the camera’s FoV is automatically rotated pointing to the corresponding target point $\mathbf { q } _ { T } ^ { l }$ on the object’s surface, as depicted in Fig. 2b. As a result, this target point is captured with satisfactory quality and is marked as inspected by $B _ { i , l } = 0$ . However, a facet, which consists of four target points (the facet vertices and center), is considered inspected when all these target points are inspected, and only then it is colored dark gray. Fig. 2c illustrates the trajectories of UAVs and the inspected/uninspected facets, at the time instant $t = 1 5 . 7 s$ . A safe 3D inspection of the object of interest requires 25.4s to be completed, and the resulting trajectories are presented in Fig. 2d. More precisely, a timebased facet inspection status is provided in Fig. 2e which shows at which time instant a facet was inspected. The order of facet inspection is not unique and depends on the initial positions of the UAVs. Finally, in the last Fig. 2f are shown the control inputs in all three dimensions (x,y,z) of all UAVs during the mission, resulting in collision-free trajectories that completely inspect the object of interest.
