[10] Joshua Gruenstein, Tao Chen, Neel Doshi, and Pulkit Agrawal.
Residual model learning for microrobot control.
In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2021.
[11] Hermann Henrichfreise and Christian Witte.
Observer-based nonlinear compensation of friction in a positioning system.
German-Polish Sem., Cologne, pages 1–10, 1997.
[12] Maged Iskandar and Sebastian Wolf.
Dynamic friction model with thermal and load dependency: modeling, compensation, and external force estimation.
In 2019 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 7367–7373.
IEEE, 2019.
[13] Min Jun Kim, Fabian Beck, Christian Ott, and Alin Albu-Schaffer.¨ Model-free friction observers for flexible joint robots with torque measurements.
IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 35(6), 2019.
[14] Friedrich Lange, Martin Pfanne, Franz Steinmetz, Sebastian Wolf, and Freek Stulp.
Friction estimation for tendon-driven robotic hands.
In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6505–6511.
IEEE, 2021.
[15] Luc Le-Tien and Alin Albu-Schaffer.
Adaptive friction compensation ¨ in trajectory tracking control of dlr medical robots with elastic joints.
In 2012 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 1149–1154.
IEEE, 2012.
[16] Luc Le Tien, Alin Albu-Schaffer, Alessandro De Luca, and Gerd Hirzinger.
Friction observer and compensation for control of robots with joint torque measurement.
In 2008 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems.
IEEE, 2008.
[17] Taeyoon Lee, Bryan D Lee, and Frank C Park.
Optimal excitation trajectories for mechanical systems identification.
Automatica, 131:109773, 2021.
[18] Aldo-Jonathan Munoz-V ˜ azquez, Vicente Parra-Vega, Anand S ´ anchez-´ Orta, and Juan Diego Sanchez-Torres.
High-gain pi-like control of ´ euler–lagrange mechanical systems: Simulations and experiments in 2dof robotic manipulators.
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part I: Journal of Systems and Control Engineering, 236(4):857–869, 2022.
[19] Henrik Olsson and Karl J Astrom.
Observer-based friction compensation.
In Proceedings of 35th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, volume 4, pages 4345–4350.
IEEE, 1996.
[20] Henrik Olsson, Karl Johan Astr ˚ om, Carlos Canudas De Wit, Magnus ¨ Gafvert, and Pablo Lischinsky.
