Friction models and friction compen- ¨ sation.
Eur.
J.
Control, 4(3):176–195, 1998.
[21] Elena Panteley, Romeo Ortega, and Magnus Gafvert.
An adaptive ¨ friction compensator for global tracking in robot manipulators.
Systems & Control Letters, 33(5):307–313, 1998.
[22] Devi Putra, Luc Moreau, and Henk Nijmeijer.
Observer-based compensation of discontinuous friction.
In 2004 43rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, volume 5, pages 4940–4945.
IEEE, 2004.
[23] Moritz Reuss, Niels van Duijkeren, Robert Krug, Philipp Becker, Vaisakh Shaj, and Gerhard Neumann.
End-to-end learning of hybrid inverse dynamics models for precise and compliant impedance control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.13804, 2022.
[24] Jean-Jacques E Slotine and Weiping Li.
On the adaptive control of robot manipulators.
The international journal of robotics research, 6(3):49–59, 1987.
[25] Yvonne R Sturz, Lukas M Affolter, and Roy S Smith.
Parameter ¨ identification of the kuka lbr iiwa robot including constraints on physical feasibility.
IFAC-PapersOnLine, 50(1):6863–6868, 2017.
[26] Jan Swevers, Chris Ganseman, D Bilgin Tukel, Joris De Schutter, and Hendrik Van Brussel.
Optimal robot excitation and identification.
IEEE transactions on robotics and automation, 13(5):730–740, 1997.
[27] KAJ Verbert, Roland Toth, and R Babu ´ ska.
Adaptive friction com-ˇ pensation: a globally stable approach.
IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 21(1):351–363, 2015.
[28] Pauli Virtanen, Ralf Gommers, Travis E Oliphant, Matt Haberland, Tyler Reddy, David Cournapeau, Evgeni Burovski, Pearu Peterson, Warren Weckesser, Jonathan Bright, et al.
Scipy 1.0: fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in python.
Nature methods, 17(3):261–272, 2020.
[29] Patrick M Wensing, Sangbae Kim, and Jean-Jacques E Slotine.
Linear matrix inequalities for physically consistent inertial parameter identification: A statistical perspective on the mass distribution.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(1):60–67, 2017.
[30] Sebastian Wolf and Maged Iskandar.
Extending a dynamic friction model with nonlinear viscous and thermal dependency for a motor and harmonic drive gear.
In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 783–790.
IEEE, 2018.
