# VII. CONSEQUENCES FOR THE CS DESIGN

The following six design principles help to handle the problem of the temporal inconsistency of the output ITOM.

Global Time: In a dependable distributed CS a faulttolerant global time with an adequate precision is needed in all subsystems of the CS. This global time provides the capability to interpret a timestamp, produced in one subsystem, in another subsystem of the distributed system. A precision is adequate if the granularity of the global time is sufficient to record the fine dynamics of the PS process.

Determination of the precise interaction instants: On the input side, the input interaction instant is the point in time when a sensor value acquired by the CS represents the physical quantity in the PS. On the output side, the output interaction instant is the point in time when the actuator value supplied by the CS to the PS is realized in the PS. A detailed analysis of the physical design and functioning of the sensor or actuator is necessary to establish the relevant latencies of sensors and actuators. The difference between the future output interaction instant of the setpoint and the input interaction instant of the input data is the parameter that is required for the extrapolation of the input data, e.g., by a Taylor expansion.

Time-triggered operation: The sensor values acquired at input interaction instants must be adjusted by extrapolation to the future output interaction instant before the computation of the setpoint starts. This is straightforward in a time-triggered system, where the periodically occurring interaction instants are known in advance.

Recording the time series of the sensed values: In a time-triggered system, the sensor readings are performed periodically at regular instants. The acquired values of the PS should be stored in the CS so that an estimate of the first order derivative, and possibly the second order derivative of a sensor value can be calculated in the CS.

Anytime Algorithms: Properly designed anytime algorithm should be used in the CS to have a satisfying (not necessarily optimal) result available at the a priori known interaction instant.

Grounding of the Variable Names: In order to improve the understandability of the CS software, the following aspects should be considered when naming a variable in a CS program. A name of a variable has:

1) to denote a memory location in the CS that contains the referenced value of the named variable,   
2) to specify how the addressed data item must be interpreted by an algorithm. This is achieved by assigning a type to the variable name, and   
3) to explain the meaning of the bit pattern by grounding the variable name in the context of the PS.

Furthermore, the acquired bit pattern delivered by a sensor should remain hidden within the sensing module that transform the bit pattern to values of standard engineering units.
