# REFERENCES

[1] Code of Federal Regulations. Title 14: Chapter 1: Subchapter C: Part 25: Airworthiness standards: Transport category airplanes, 2023.

[2] H.
Yin, P.
Seiler, and M.
Arcak, “Stability Analysis Using Quadratic Constraints for Systems With Neural Network Controllers,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
4, Apr.
2022.
[3] N.
Hashemi, J.
Ruths, and M.
Fazlyab, “Certifying Incremental Quadratic Constraints for Neural Networks via Convex Optimization,” in Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Learning for Dynamics and Control, PMLR, May 29, 2021.
[4] P.
Pauli, D.
Gramlich, J.
Berberich, and F.
Allgower, “Lin- ¨ ear Systems with Neural Network Nonlinearities: Improved Stability Analysis via Acausal Zames-Falb Multipliers,” in 2021 60th IEEE Conf.
on Decision and Control (CDC), Dec.
2021.
[5] F.
Gu, H.
Yin, L.
E.
Ghaoui, M.
Arcak, P.
Seiler, and M.
Jin, “Recurrent Neural Network Controllers Synthesis with Stability Guarantees for Partially Observed Systems,” Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Jun.
2022.
[6] R.
Wang, N.
H.
Barbara, M.
Revay, and I.
R.
Manchester, “Learning Over All Stabilizing Nonlinear Controllers for a Partially-Observed Linear System,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
7, 2023.
[7] N.
Junnarkar, H.
Yin, F.
Gu, M.
Arcak, and P.
Seiler, “Synthesis of Stabilizing Recurrent Equilibrium Network Controllers,” in 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), Dec.
2022.
[8] N.
Junnarkar, M.
Arcak, and P.
Seiler, Synthesizing Neural Network Controllers with Closed-Loop Dissipativity Guarantees, 2024.
arXiv: 2404.07373 [eess.SY].
[9] N.
Barabanov and D.
Prokhorov, “Stability analysis of discrete-time recurrent neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol.
13, no.
2, pp.
292–303, Mar.
2002.
[10] E.
Sontag, “Recurrent Neural Networks: Some Systems-Theoretic Aspects,” in Dealing with Complexity: A Neural Networks Approach, London: Springer, 1998.
[11] K.
Zhou, J.
C.
Doyle, and K.
Glover, Robust and Optimal Control.
USA: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1996.
[12] P.
Seiler, A.
Packard, and P.
Gahinet, “An Introduction to Disk Margins [Lecture Notes],” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, vol.
40, no.
5, Oct.
2020.
[13] A.-K.
Schug, P.
Seiler, and H.
Pfifer, “Robustness Margins for Linear Parameter Varying Systems,” AerospaceLab Journal, vol.
Issue 13, 2017.
[14] L.
El Ghaoui, F.
Gu, B.
Travacca, A.
Askari, and A.
Tsai, “Implicit Deep Learning,” SIAM Journal on Mathematics of Data Science, vol.
3, no.
3, Jan.
2021.
[15] F.
M.
Callier and C.
A.
