# VIII. RELATED WORK

The importance of time in computer science has long been realized; Furia et al. [12] give a broad overview of timing models. In this paper, we do not introduce a new time model but argue that any CPS is best described by two different time models, one for the PS and another one for the CS. These two models of time must be aligned. Otherwise, temporal inconsistencies may occur, as we have exemplified in this paper.

The particular problem of sensor input latency in CPS is addressed, for example, in Brahmi et al. [13] or Mehmed et al. [14]. However, handling sensor latency is only one aspect of ensuring temporal consistency, as discussed in this paper. For example, while the related work addresses how to calculate (and minimize) the inaccuracy of the sensor data when the sensor data first enters the CS of the CPS, we propose a method to extrapolate the future inaccuracy of the sensor data at the interaction-instant when said input (or functions thereof) affects the PS via actuators.

Timing effects are also studied in control theory. For example, Srinivasagupta et al. [15] present a time-stamped model predictive control (TSMPC) algorithm. TSMPC is able to handle the effect of a control input applied arbitrarily in time. In our work, we do not require a special control algorithm that mitigates timing-imposed data inaccuracies. In a time-triggered system, we can design the interaction-instants between the PS and the CS and, therefore, extrapolate the sensor data for the interaction-instant when the result of the CS calculations is applied to the PS.
