[4] P. Lin, W. Ren, and J. A. Farrell, “Distributed continuous-time optimization: nonuniform gradient gains, finite-time convergence, and convex constraint set,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 62, no. 5, pp. 2239–2253, 2016.   
[5] Z. Feng, G. Hu, and C. G. Cassandras, “Finite-time distributed convex optimization for continuous-time multiagent systems with disturbance rejection,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 686–698, 2019.   
[6] B. Huang, Y. Zou, Z. Meng, and W. Ren, “Distributed time-varying convex optimization for a class of nonlinear multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic control, vol. 65, no. 2, pp. 801–808, 2019.   
[7] B. Wang, S. Sun, and W. Ren, “Distributed continuous-time algorithms for optimal resource allocation with time-varying quadratic cost functions,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 1974–1984, 2020.   
[8] S. G. Lee, Y. Diaz-Mercado, and M. Egerstedt, “Multirobot control using time-varying density functions,” IEEE Transactions on robotics, vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 489–493, 2015.   
[9] A. Jadbabaie, A. Rakhlin, S. Shahrampour, and K. Sridharan, “Online optimization: Competing with dynamic comparators,” in Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. PMLR, 2015, pp. 398–406.   
[10] S. Rahili and W. Ren, “Distributed continuous-time convex optimization with time-varying cost functions,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 62, no. 4, pp. 1590–1605, 2016.   
[11] S. He, X. He, and T. Huang, “A continuous-time consensus algorithm using neurodynamic system for distributed time-varying optimization with inequality constraints,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 358, no. 13, pp. 6741–6758, 2021.   
[12] Q. Wang, Z. Duan, Y. Lv, Q. Wang, and G. Chen, “Distributed model predictive control for linear–quadratic performance and consensus state optimization of multiagent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol. 51, no. 6, pp. 2905–2915, 2020.   
[13] S. Sun and W. Ren, “Distributed continuous-time optimization with timevarying objective functions and inequality constraints,” in 2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC). IEEE, 2020, pp. 5622–5627.   
[14] R. Zhang and G. Guo, “Continuous distributed robust optimization
