# REFERENCES

[1] M. Xiong, J. A. Stankovic, K. Ramamritham, D. F. Towsley, and R. M. Sivasankaran, “Maintaining temporal consistency: Issues and algorithms.” in RTDB, vol. 96, 1996, pp. 1–6.   
[2] T.-W. Kuo and A. K. Mok, “Real-time data semantics and similaritybased concurrency control,” IEEE Transactions on computers, vol. 49, no. 11, pp. 1241–1254, 2000.   
[3] A. A. Alwan, M. A. Ciupala, A. J. Brimicombe, S. A. Ghorashi, A. Baravalle, and P. Falcarin, “Data quality challenges in large-scale cyber-physical systems: A systematic review,” Information Systems, vol. 105, p. 101951, 2022.   
[4] H. Kopetz, Data, Information, and Time: The DIT Model. Springer, 2022.   
[5] H. Kopetz and W. Steiner, Real-time systems: design principles for distributed embedded applications. Springer Nature, 2022.   
[6] B. Russell, The problems of philosophy. OUP Oxford, 1912.   
[7] B. Dutertre and M. Sorea, “Modeling and verification of a fault-tolerant real-time startup protocol using calendar automata,” in International Symposium on Formal Techniques in Real-Time and Fault-Tolerant Systems. Springer, 2004, pp. 199–214.   
[8] E. Pavlick, “Symbols and grounding in large language models,” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A, vol. 381, no. 2251, p. 20220041, 2023.   
[9] S. A. Kripke, Naming and necessity. Harvard University Press, 1980.   
[10] W. V. O. Quine, From a Logical Point of View – On What There Is. Reclam, 2011.   
[11] H. Kopetz, “Anytime algorithms in time-triggered control systems,” Principles of Modeling: Essays Dedicated to Edward A. Lee on the Occasion of His 60th Birthday, pp. 326–335, 2018.   
[12] C. A. Furia, D. Mandrioli, A. Morzenti, M. Rossi et al., Modeling time in computing. Springer, 2012.   
[13] M. Brahmi, K. Schueler, S. Bouzouraa, M. Maurer, K.-H. Siedersberger, and U. Hofmann, “Timestamping and latency analysis for multi-sensor perception systems,” in SENSORS, 2013 IEEE, 2013, pp. 1–4.   
[14] A. Mehmed, S. Punnekkat, and W. Steiner, “Deterministic ethernet: Addressing the challenges of asynchronous sensing in sensor fusion systems,” in 2017 47th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks Workshops (DSN-W). IEEE, 2017, pp. 22–28.   
[15] D. Srinivasagupta, H. Schättler, and B. Joseph, “Time-stamped model predictive control: an algorithm for control of processes with random delays,” Computers & Chemical Engineering, vol. 28, no. 8, pp. 1337– 1346, 2004.
