# 7) The Need of Output Stability Properties for Systems with Disturbances in Adaptive Control

Since disturbances are always present in every system and since disturbances appear as external inputs for a system in the standard mathematical formalism that is used in control theory, it becomes clear that there are no control systems without external inputs. When adaptive controllers are used, one has to study the stability properties of the closed-loop system with external inputs. This study is not easy. In this section we focus on the simplest system, namely the scalar system

$$\dot {y} = \theta y + u + d \tag {124}y \in \mathbb {R}, \theta \in \mathbb {R}, u \in \mathbb {R}, d \in \mathbb {R}$$

where $\theta \in \mathbb { R }$ is an unknown parameter of the system, $u \in \mathbb { R }$ is the control input and $d \in \mathbb { R }$ is the (unknown and possibly time-varying) external disturbance.

A nonlinear adaptive controller may be designed based on the methodologies proposed in [10]. Indeed, the adaptive controller

$$u = - c y - \hat {\theta} y - q y ^ {3}\frac {d \hat {\theta}}{d t} = \Gamma y ^ {2} \tag {125}$$

where $c , \Gamma > 0 , q \geq 0$ are the controller parameters (gains) guarantees a number of stability properties in the disturbance-free case (i.e., when $d \equiv 0 )$ . Indeed, by defining $z = \hat { \theta } - \theta$ , we obtain the equivalent version of the closed-loop system (124) with (125):

$$\dot {y} = - c y - z y - q y ^ {3} + d\dot {z} = \Gamma y ^ {2} \tag {126}x = (y, z) ^ {\prime} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {2}, d \in \mathbb {R}$$

The radially unbounded function $V ( x ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 } y ^ { 2 } + \frac { 1 } { 2 \Gamma } z ^ { 2 }$ 1y²+ 2z satisfies the following inequality for all y,z,d ∈R : $y , z , d \in \mathbb { R }$

$$\dot {V} (x, d) = - c y ^ {2} - q y ^ {4} + y d \leq - \frac {c}{2} y ^ {2} - q y ^ {4} + \frac {1}{2 c} d ^ {2} \tag {127}$$

Consequently, the disturbance-free version of system (126):

• by virtue of Theorem 1 and Proposition 1, satisfies the Lagrange and Lyapunov stability properties,   
• the set $\left\{ ( 0 , z ) ^ { \prime } \in \mathbb { R } \times \mathbb { R } , z \in \mathbb { R } \right\}$ is invariant for (126); it is a set of equilibrium points for system (126),   
• by virtue of Theorem 2 is GAOS.

However, we cannot show UGAOS for system (126). Still, the adaptive controller (125) works nicely when disturbances are absent. Figure 1 shows the plots of the state variables and the control input in the disturbance-free case.
