Recht, “Random features for large-scale kernel machines,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, J.
Platt, D.
Koller, Y.
Singer, and S.
Roweis, Eds., vol.
20.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2007.
[17] R.
M.
Sanner and J.-J.
E.
Slotine, “Stable recursive identification using radial basis function networks,” in 1992 American Control Conference, 1992, pp.
1829–1833.
[18] E.
Tal and S.
Karaman, “Accurate tracking of aggressive quadrotor trajectories using incremental nonlinear dynamic inversion and differential flatness,” CoRR, vol.
abs/1809.04048, 2018.
[19] S.
Mallikarjunan, B.
Nesbitt, E.
Kharisov, E.
Xargay, N.
Hovakimyan, and C.
Cao, “L1 adaptive controller for attitude control of multirotors,” 2012.
[20] E.
N.
Johnson and A.
J.
Calise, “Limited authority adaptive flight control for reusable launch vehicles,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
26, no.
6, pp.
906–913, 2003.
[21] J.
Nakanishi, J.
A.
Farrell, and S.
Schaal, “Composite adaptive control with locally weighted statistical learning,” Neural Networks, vol.
18, no.
1, pp.
71–90, 2005.
[22] J.
Nakanishi, J.
Farrell, and S.
Schaal, “A locally weighted learning composite adaptive controller with structure adaptation,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, vol.
1, 2002, pp.
882–889 vol.1.
[23] A.
Punjani and P.
Abbeel, “Deep learning helicopter dynamics models,” in 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2015, pp.
3223–3230.
[24] P.
Abbeel, A.
Coates, and A.
Ng, “Autonomous helicopter aerobatics through apprenticeship learning,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol.
29, pp.
1608 – 1639, 2010.
[25] S.
Zhou, K.
Pereida, W.
Zhao, and A.
P.
Schoellig, “Bridging the model-reality gap with lipschitz network adaptation,” 2021.
