# REFERENCES

[1] G.
Shi, X.
Shi, M.
O’Connell, R.
Yu, K.
Azizzadenesheli, A.
Anandkumar, Y.
Yue, and S.-J.
Chung, “Neural lander: Stable drone landing control using learned dynamics,” in 2019 international conference on robotics and automation (icra).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
9784–9790.
[2] A.
Zeng, S.
Song, J.
Lee, A.
Rodriguez, and T.
Funkhouser, “Tossingbot: Learning to throw arbitrary objects with residual physics,” 2019.
[3] J.
Lee, J.
Hwangbo, L.
Wellhausen, V.
Koltun, and M.
Hutter, “Learning quadrupedal locomotion over challenging terrain,” CoRR, vol.
abs/2010.11251, 2020.
[4] R.
Sanner and J.-J.
Slotine, “Gaussian networks for direct adaptive control,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol.
3, no.
6, pp.
837–863, 1992.
[5] M.
O’Connell, G.
Shi, X.
Shi, K.
Azizzadenesheli, A.
Anandkumar, Y.
Yue, and S.-J.
Chung, “Neural-fly enables rapid learning for agile flight in strong winds,” Science Robotics, vol.
7, no.
66, May 2022.
[6] G.
Joshi and G.
Chowdhary, “Deep model reference adaptive control,” 2019.
[7] A.
Nagabandi, I.
Clavera, S.
Liu, R.
S.
Fearing, P.
Abbeel, S.
Levine, and C.
Finn, “Learning to adapt in dynamic, real-world environments through meta-reinforcement learning,” 2019.
[8] X.
Song, Y.
Yang, K.
Choromanski, K.
Caluwaerts, W.
Gao, C.
Finn, and J.
Tan, “Rapidly adaptable legged robots via evolutionary metalearning,” 2020.
[9] M.
Krstic, P.
V.
Kokotovic, and I.
Kanellakopoulos, Nonlinear and Adaptive Control Design, 1st ed.
USA: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1995.
[10] J.
A.
Farrell and M.
M.
Polycarpou, Adaptive Approximation Based Control: Unifying Neural, Fuzzy and Traditional Adaptive Approximation Approaches.
USA: Wiley-Interscience, 2006.
[11] P.
A.
Ioannou and J.
Sun, Robust adaptive control.
USA: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1995.
[12] H.
Kaufman, I.
Bar-Kana, and K.
Sobel, Direct adaptive control algorithms: theory and applications.
Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 1994.
[13] S.
Sastry and M.
Bodson, Adaptive control: stability, convergence, and robustness.
USA: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1989.
[14] J.-J.
E.
Slotine and W.
Li, “Composite adaptive control of robot manipulators,” Automatica, vol.
25, no.
4, pp.
509–519, 1989.
[15] A.
Astolfi, D.
Karagiannis, and R.
Ortega, Nonlinear and Adaptive Control with Applications, 1st ed.
Springer Publishing Company, Incorporated, 2008.
[16] A.
Rahimi and B.
