# REFERENCES

[1] H. Nguyen, M. Kamel, K. Alexis, and R. Siegwart, “Model predictive control for micro aerial vehicles: A survey,” 2021 European Control Conference, ECC 2021, pp. 1556–1563, 2021.   
[2] Y. Shi and K. Zhang, “Advanced model predictive control framework for autonomous intelligent mechatronic systems: A tutorial overview and perspectives,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol. 52, pp. 170–196, 1 2021.

[3] M.
Schwenzer, M.
Ay, T.
Bergs, and D.
Abel, “Review on model predictive control: an engineering perspective,” The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 2021 117:5, vol.
117, pp.
1327–1349, 8 2021.
[Online].
Available: https://link.springer.com/ article/10.1007/s00170-021-07682-3   
[4] S.
C.
Nwaforo, J.
N.
Eneho, M.
I.
Ndefoo, O.
C.
Ugbeo, H.
I.
Ugwuo, and O.
Anio, “An optimal hybrid quadcopter control technique with mpc-based backstepping,” Archives of Control Sciences, vol.
34, pp.
39–62, 2024.
[5] K.
Y.
Chee, T.
Z.
Jiahao, and M.
A.
Hsieh, “Knode-mpc: A knowledgebased data-driven predictive control framework for aerial robots,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
7, pp.
2819–2826, 4 2022.
[6] G.
Torrente, E.
Kaufmann, P.
Fohn, and D.
Scaramuzza, “Data-driven ¨ mpc for quadrotors,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
6, pp.
3769–3776, 2021.
[Online].
Available: https://api.semanticscholar.
org/CorpusID:231877864   
[7] S.
L.
Brunton and J.
N.
Kutz, “Data-driven science and engineering: Machine learning, dynamical systems, and control,” Data-Driven Science and Engineering: Machine Learning, Dynamical Systems, and Control, pp.
1–472, 1 2019.
[8] U.
Fasel, E.
Kaiser, J.
N.
Kutz, B.
W.
Brunton, and S.
L.
Brunton, “Sindy with control: A tutorial,” Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, vol.
2021-December, pp.
16–21, 2021.
[9] E.
Kaiser, J.
Kutz, and S.
Brunton, “Sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics for model predictive control in the low-data limit,” Proceedings of the Royal Society A, 2017.
[10] Z.
M.
Manaa, M.
R.
Elbalshy, and A.
M.
Abdallah, “Data-driven discovery of the quadrotor equations of motion via sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics,” AIAA SciTech Forum and Exposition, 2024, 2024.
[Online].
Available: https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/10.2514/6.2024-1308   
[11] E.
Kaiser, J.
N.
Kutz, and S.
L.
Brunton, “Sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics for model predictive control in the low-data limit,” Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol.
474, 11 2018.
[12] M.
Quade, M.
Abel, J.
N.
Kutz, and S.
L.
Brunton, “Sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics for rapid model recovery,” Chaos, vol.
28, 6 2018.
[13] S.
L.
Brunton, J.
L.
Proctor, and J.
N.
