# References

[1] Angeli D.
and E.
D.
Sontag, “Forward Completeness, Unboundedness Observability, and their Lyapunov Characterizations”, Systems & Control Letters, 38, 1999, 209-217.
[2] Ioannou, P.
A.
and J.
Sun, Robust Adaptive Control, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, USA: Prentice Hall, 1996.
[3] Ioannou, P.
A.
and B.
Fidan, Adaptive Control Tutorial, SIAM, 2006.
[4] Karafyllis, I.
and Z.-P.
Jiang, Stability and Stabilization of Nonlinear Systems, Springer-Verlag, London (Series: Communications and Control Engineering), 2011.
[5] Karafyllis, I.
and A.
Chaillet, “Lyapunov Conditions for Uniform Asymptotic Output Stability and a Relaxation of Barbălat’s Lemma”, Automatica, 132, 2021, 109792.
[6] Karafyllis, I.
and M.
Krstic, “Deadzone-Adapted Disturbance Suppression Control for Global Practical IOS and Zero Asymptotic Gain to Matched Uncertainties”, Systems and Control Letters, 185, 2024, 105746.
[7] Karafyllis, I., D.
Theodosis and M.
Papageorgiou, “Forward Completeness in Open Sets and Applications to Control of Automated Vehicles”, to appear in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (see also arXiv:2307.11515 [math.OC]).
[8] Karafyllis, I., M.
Krstic and A.
Aslanidis, “Deadzone-Adapted Disturbance Suppression Control for Strict-Feedback Systems”, Automatica, 171, 2025, 111986.
[9] Khalil, H.
K., Nonlinear Systems, 2nd Edition, Prentice-Hall, 1996.
[10] Krstic, M., I.
Kanellakopoulos and P.
Kokotovic, Nonlinear and Adaptive Control Design, Wiley, 1995.
[11] Lakshmikantham, V.
and S.
Leela, Differential and Integral Inequalities, Volume 1.
Academic Press, New York, 1969.
[12] Lakshmikantham, V.
and L.
Salvadori, “On Massera Type Converse Theorem in Terms of two Different Measures”, Bollettino dell' Unione Matematica Italiana, 13, 1976, 293–301.
[13] Mironchenko, A., “Lyapunov Criteria for Robust Forward Completeness of Distributed Parameter Systems”, Systems & Control Letters, 2023, 105618.
[14] Mareels, I.
M.
Y., “A Simple Selftuning Controller for Stably Invertible Systems”, Systems and Control Letters, 4, 1984, 5–16.
[15] Morse, A.
S., “Recent Problems in Parameter Adaptive Control”, in I.
D.
Landau (editor), Outils et Modèles Mathématiques pour l’Automatique, l’Analyse de Systèmes et le Traitment du Signal, Birkhäuser, 1983, 733–740.
[16] Movchan, A.
