Chen, S.
H.
Huang, A hovering micro autonomous underwater vehicle with integrated control and positioning system, Ocean Engineering 304 (2024) 117819.
T.
I.
Fossen, Handbook of marine craft hydrodynamics and motion control, John Wiley & Sons, 2011.
H.
Li, X.
An, R.
Feng, Y.
Chen, Motion Control of Autonomous Underwater Helicopter Based on Linear Active Disturbance Rejection Control with Tracking Differentiator, Applied Sciences 13 (2023) 3836.
T.
I.
Fossen, A.
M.
Lekkas, Direct and indirect adaptive integral lineof-sight path-following controllers for marine craft exposed to ocean currents, International journal of adaptive control and signal processing 31 (2017) 445–463.
T.
I.
Fossen, An Adaptive Line-of-Sight (ALOS) Guidance Law for Path Following of Aircraft and Marine Craft, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology 31 (2023) 2887–2894.
S.
Xingling, W.
Honglun, Back-stepping active disturbance rejection control design for integrated missile guidance and control system via reduced-order ESO, ISA Transactions 57 (2015) 10–22.
H.
Zhang, Y.
Xie, G.
Xiao, C.
Zhai, Z.
Long, A Simple Discrete-Time Tracking Differentiator and Its Application to Speed and Position Detection System for a Maglev Train, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology 27 (2019) 1728–1734.
H.
Chen, Y.
J.
Liu, L.
Liu, S.
Tong, Z.
Gao, Anti-Saturation-Based Adaptive Sliding-Mode Control for Active Suspension Systems with Time-Varying Vertical Displacement and Speed Constraints, IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics 52 (2022) 6244–6254.
E.
D.
Sontag, Y.
Wang, On characterizations of the input-to-state stability property, Systems and Control Letters 24 (1995) 351–359.

P. G. Drazin, Nonlinear systems, 10, Cambridge University Press, 1992.
