A., “Stability of Processes with Respect to two Metrics”, Journal of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics, 24, 1960, 1506-1524.
[17] Orlowski, J., A.
Chaillet and M.
Sigalotti, “Counterexample to a Lyapunov Condition for Uniform Asymptotic Partial Stability”, IEEE Control Systems Letters, 4, 2020, 397-401.
[18] Orlowski, J., A.
Chaillet, A.
Destexhe and M.
Sigalotti, “Adaptive Control of Lipschitz Time-Delay Systems by Sigma Modification with Application to Neuronal Population Dynamics”, Systems & Control Letters, 159, 2022, 105082.
[19] Sontag, E.
D., “Smooth Stabilization Implies Coprime Factorization”, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 34, 1989, 435-443.
[20] Sontag, E.
D.
and Y.
Wang, “On Characterizations of the Input-to-State Stability Property”, Systems and Control Letters, 24, 1995, 351-359.
[21] Sontag, E.
D.
and Y.
Wang, “New Characterizations of the Input-to-State Stability”, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 41, 1996, 1283-1294.
[22] Sontag, E.
D., “Comments on Integral Variants of ISS”, Systems and Control Letters, 34, 1998, 93-100.
[23] Sontag, E.
D.
and Y.
Wang, “Notions of Input to Output Stability”, Systems and Control Letters, 38, 1999, 235-248.

[24] Sontag, E. D. and Y. Wang, “Lyapunov Characterizations of Input-to-Output Stability”, SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 39, 2001, 226-249.   
[25] Sontag, E. D., “Input-to-State Stability: Basic Concepts and Results”, in P. Nistri and G. Stefani (eds) Nonlinear and Optimal Control Theory. Lectures Given at the C.I.M.E. Summer School Held in Cetraro, Italy, June 19-29, 2004, vol. 1932, Lecture Notes in Mathematics, 163- 220, Springer, Berlin, 2008.   
[26] Teel, A. R. and L. Praly, “A Smooth Lyapunov Function from a Class KL Estimate Involving two Positive Semidefinite Functions”, ESAIM Control, Optimisation and Calculus of Variations, 2002, 313-367.   
[27] Vorotnikov, V. I., Partial Stability and Control, Birkhäuser, Boston, 1998.   
[28] Willems, J. C. and C. I. Byrnes, “Global Adaptive Stabilization in the Absence of Information on the Sign of the High Frequency Gain”, in A. Bensoussan and J. L. Lions (editors), Analysis and Optimization of Systems, Proceedings of the 6th INRIA Conference, Nice, France, Springer-Verlag, 1984, 49-57.   
[29] Yoshizawa, T., Stability Theory by Liapunov's Second Method, Publications of the Mathematical Society of Japan, 1966.
