# Notes and comments

There are many other stability properties beyond the ones that are discussed in the present work. We have focused mainly on the stability properties that are useful for adaptive control. We hope the reader appreciates the clear presentation of this collection of stability properties, with a scope slightly expanded beyond adaptive control.   
Output stability properties are very much related to the so-called “partial stability” properties. See for instance [27]. Output stability is a special case of stability with respect to two measures; see [11, 12, 16, 26].   
• Controller (125) with $q = 0$ is a “high-gain” adaptive controller (see [14, 15, 28]).   
ISS was introduced in control theory by E. D. Sontag in [19]. IOS was introduced in control theory by E. D. Sontag and Y. Wang in [23]. Both notions were studied by E. D. Sontag and Y. Wang; see [19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25]. The role that IOS and ISS played in modern feedback control theory is huge. The UBIBS property, i.e., property (40) with $\bar { \alpha } = 0$ was introduced in [24].   
Some of the results contained in the present set of notes are novel results. For example, Theorem 4, Theorem 5, Theorem 8 and Theorem 9 have not appeared elsewhere. A less general version of Theorem 8 first appeared in [8].   
While writing this set of notes, Prof. Antoine Chaillet mentioned to the authors that the same proof procedure that is used in the proof of Theorem 1.2 in [24] can be exploited in order to obtain the following sufficient condition for p-IOS:

Theorem 10 (Lyapunov conditions for p-IOS): Suppose that (36) is p-UBIBS and there exist a function $a \in K _ { \infty }$ , a non-decreasing, continuous function $\varphi : \mathbb { R } _ { + } \to \mathbb { R } _ { + }$ , a function $V \in C ^ { 1 } \left( \mathbb { R } ^ { n } ; \mathbb { R } _ { + } \right)$ with  and a function $\sigma \in K L$ for which the following inequality holds for all $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$

$$a \left(\left| h (x) \right|\right) \leq V (x) \tag {132}$$

and the following implication holds for all $x \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ $d \in D$ :

$$V (x) \geq \varphi (\left| d \right|) \Rightarrow \dot {V} (x, d) = \nabla V (x) f (x, d) \leq - \sigma (V (x), | x |) \tag {133}$$

Then system (36), (2) satisfies the p-IOS property. Moreover, if  then system (36), (2) satisfies the IOS property.

In other words, it is possible to replace the UBIBS property in Theorem 1.2 in [24] by the less demanding p-UBIBS property.

It is well known that, for time-invariant systems described by ODEs with locally Lipschitz right-hand sides, GAS and UGAS are actually equivalent properties; see [29]. However, GAOS is not equivalent to UGAOS for arbitrary output maps.

Acknowledgments: The authors would like to Professor Antoine Chaillet for all the discussions in the early stages of writing this document.
