12Y.
Wu, Q.
Ding, W.
Huang, T.
Li, D.
Yu, and Y.
Jia, “ Dynamic learning of synchronization in coupled nonlinear systems,” Nonlinear Dynamics 112, 21945–21967 (2024).
13Z.
Ye, Y.
Wu, Q.
Ding, Y.
Xie, and Y.
Jia, “Finding synchronization state of higher-order motif networks by dynamic learning,” Phys.
Rev.
Res.
6, 033071 (2024).
14Y.
Wu, Q.
Ding, W.
Huang, X.
Hu, Z.
Ye, and Y.
Jia, “Dynamic modulation of external excitation enhance synchronization in complex neuronal network,” Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 183, 114896 (2024).
15Y.
Wu, W.
Huang, Q.
Ding, Y.
Jia, L.
Yang, and Z.
Fu, “Enhancing orderly signal propagation between layers of neuronal networks through spike timing-dependent plasticity,” Physics Letters A 519, 129721 (2024).
16E.
Levin, R.
Gewirtzman, and G.
F.
Inbar, “Neural network architecture for adaptive system modeling and control,” Neural Networks 4, 185–191 (1991).
17B.
Grieger and M.
Latif, “Reconstruction of the El Niño attractor with neural networks,” Climate Dynamics 10, 267–276 (1994).
18H.
G.
Zimmermann and R.
Neuneier, Combining state space reconstruction and forecasting by neural networks, edited by G.
Bol, G.
Nakhaeizadeh, and K.-H.
Vollmer (Physica-Verlag HD, 2000) pp.
259–267.
19W.
Gilpin, Y.
Huang, and D.
B.
Forger, “Learning dynamics from large biological data sets: Machine learning meets systems biology,” Current Opinion in Systems Biology 22, 1–7 (2020).
20D.
P.
Kingma and M.
Welling, “An introduction to variational autoencoders,” Foundations and Trends® in Machine Learning 12, 307–392 (2019).
21F.
Chollet, Deep learning with Python, 2nd ed.
(Simon and Schuster, Shelter Island, NY, 2021) p.
504.
22P.
V.
Kuptsov, N.
V.
Stankevich, and E.
R.
Bagautdinova, “Discovering dynamical features of Hodgkin-Huxley-type model of physiological neuron using artificial neural network,” Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 167, 113027 (2023).
23P.
V.
Kuptsov and N.
V.
Stankevich, “Modeling of the Hodgkin–Huxley neural oscillators dynamics using an artificial neural network (in russian),” Izvestiya VUZ.
Applied Nonlinear Dynamics 32, 72–95 (2024).
24A.
N.
Kolmogorov, “On the representation of continuous functions of several variables by superpositions of continuous functions of a smaller number of variables,” Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR 108, 179–182 (1956), english translation: Amer.
Math.
Soc.
Transl., 17 (1961), pp.
369-373.
25V.
I.
