Arnold, “On functions of three variables,” Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR 114, 679–681 (1957), english translation: Amer.
Math.
Soc.
Transl., 28 (1963), pp.
51–54.
26A.
N.
Kolmogorov, “On the representation of continuous func-

tions of many variables by superposition of continuous functions of one variable and addition,” Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR 114, 953–956 (1957), english translation: Amer.
Math.
Soc.
Transl., 28 (1963), pp.
55–59.
27G.
Cybenko, “Approximation by superpositions of a sigmoidal function,” Mathematics of Control, Signals and Systems 2, 303– 314 (1989).
28A.
N.
Gorban, “Generalized approximation theorem and exact representation of polynomials in multiple variables via superpositions of polynomials in one variable (in Russian),” Izvestiya VUZ.
Mathematics 432, 6–9 (1998).
29S.
Haykin, Neural networks: a comprehensive foundation, 2nd ed.
(Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 1998) p.
842.
30P.
V.
Kuptsov, A.
V.
Kuptsova, and N.
V.
Stankevich, “Artificial neural network as a universal model of nonlinear dynamical systems,” Russian Journal of Nonlinear Dynamics 17, 5–21 (2021).
31A.
Sherman, J.
Rinzel, and J.
Keizer, “Emergence of organized bursting in clusters of pancreatic beta-cells by channel sharing,” Biophysical Journal 54, 411–425 (1988).
32N.
Stankevich and E.
Mosekilde, “Coexistence between silent and bursting states in a biophysical Hodgkin-Huxley-type of model,” Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 27, 123101 (2017).
33E.
Hairer and G.
Wanner, “Stiff differential equations solved by radau methods,” Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics 111, 93–111 (1999).
34A.
Shilnikov and G.
Cymbalyuk, “Transition between tonic spiking and bursting in a neuron model via the blue-sky catastrophe,” Phys.
Rev.
Lett.
94, 048101 (2005).
35P.
V.
Kuptsov and A.
V.
Kuptsova, “Estimating of the inertial manifold dimension for a chaotic attractor of complex Ginzburg-Landau equation using a neural network,” Proc.
of SPIE 11067, 110670N–1 (2019).
36N.
H.
Packard, J.
P.
Crutchfield, J.
D.
Farmer, and R.
S.
Shaw, “Geometry from a time series,” Phys.
Rev.
Lett.
45, 712–716 (1980).
37F.
Takens, “Dynamical Systems and Turbulence,” (Springer,Berlin, 1981) Chap.
Detecting strange attractors in fluid turbulence, pp.
366–381.
38W.
H.
Press, S.
A.
Teukolsky, W.
T.
Vetterling, and B.
P.
Flannery, Numerical recipes, 3rd ed., edited by W.
H.
Press (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge [u.a.], 2007).
39D.
P.
Kingma and J.

Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,” arXiv:1412.6980 [cs.LG] (2014), published as a conference paper at International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) 2015, arXiv:1412.6980 [cs.LG].
