# Appendix C: Detail of the neural network map

Structure of Eq. (5) corresponds to a two-layer dense network. The first layer obtains a scalar value $u _ { i }$ and its output is a vector of dimension $N _ { h }$ that is the result of the expression $f ( u _ { i } ( n ) a _ { i } + \mu _ { i } + g ( . . . ) )$ . Layers like this are usually called hidden. Its dimension $N _ { h }$ determines a network information capacity and performance. Unlike a generic two-layer network, the vector of biases $\mu _ { i }$ get a correction form the output of an additional layer $g ( u _ { \neg i } ( n ) A _ { i } + p B _ { i } + \beta _ { i } )$ that depends on other (non ith) dynamical variables and control parameters. The second layer, i.e., network output has a form $f ( \dots ) b _ { i } + \gamma _ { i } .$ . It computes a scalar value that is used as a correction to $u _ { i } ( n )$ to compute its value on step $n + 1 { : }$ $u _ { i } ( n + 1 ) = u _ { i } ( n ) + \chi ( . . . )$ .

The neural network map (5) is adopted for a required dynamics during training procedure that consists of tuning the network weight parameters

$$w _ {m} = \left\{a _ {i}, \mu_ {i}, A _ {i}, B _ {i}, \beta_ {i}, b _ {i}, \gamma_ {i} \mid i = 1, 2, \dots , D _ {u} \right\}. \tag {C1}$$

The training vector $u ( n )$ is forwarded to the network and the network computes $u ^ { \prime } ( n + 1 )$ ). This vector is compared with the desired one $u ( n + 1 )$ . Their mean squared error is a loss function of the training process. It is minimized in course of training via gradient decent method21. In actual computations we used the modification of this method named $\mathrm { A d a m ^ { 3 9 } }$ . When training is finished and the network operates as a discrete time dynamical system, we set $u ^ { \prime } ( n + 1 ) = u ( n + 1 )$ .

Software implementation of the neural network map (5) can be done via the following operators. Operator Take(u, i) extracts ith elements of the vector u and $\mathrm { S a n s } ( u , i )$ removes it and returns a vector $u \_ i$ without this element. Operator Dense $( x , W , b ) \ = \ x W + b$ represents a fully connected (dense) layer without the activation: input row vector x is multiplied by a matrix W and biased by a vector b. Finally, square brackets [·, ·] denotes concatenation of two vectors or matrices.
