The common architecture of VAE displayed in Fig. 15(a) is typical for various topics, while the inner structures of the encoder and decoder depend on the problem under consideration. In our case time series are processed. There are three standard ways for dealing with them: one dimensional convolutions, recurrent cells and transformers21. Since we aim to keep our neural networks as simple as possible, the convolutions are employed. The encoder includes one convolution layer supplied with two dense layers, Fig. 15(b). The decoder have to perform the encoder operation in the reversed order. Thus it first includes two dense layers. Then the flat output of these layers is reshaped to the matrix $N _ { f } \times D _ { e }$ to fulfill the requirement for the input data of the transposed convolution layer. Its output is one dimensional vector d that is scaled as $R = \operatorname { S c a l e } ( d , w , \beta ) = d w + \beta$ with scalar trainable coefficients w and β to fit the range of the desired output vector R. Table II provides the description of the elements of the encoder and decoder. See also the book21 for more descriptions of the layers used.

TABLE II. Structure of elements of the encoder and the decoder in Figs 15(b,c). Nk is convolution kernel size, $N _ { f }$ is number of convolution filters, $N _ { \mu 1 }$ is size of the output of the first dense layer. $N _ { k } ~ = ~ 3 , ~ N _ { f } ~ = ~ 1 6 . ~ N _ { \mu 1 } ~ = ~ 5 1 2 .$ , $f ( \cdot ) = \operatorname { t a n h } ( \cdot )$ .
