1H. Kantz and T. Schreiber, Nonlinear time series analysis, 2nd ed. (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 2004) p. 388.   
2E. Bradley and H. Kantz, “Nonlinear time-series analysis revisited,” Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 25, 097610 (2015).   
3B. P. Bezruchko and D. A. Smirnov, Extracting knowledge from time deries, edited by D. A. Smirnov, Springer Series in Synergetics (Springer Science & Business Media, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010) p. 410.   
4J. J. Scully, A. B. Neiman, and A. L. Shilnikov, “Measuring chaos in the Lorenz and Rössler models: Fidelity tests for reservoir computing,” Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 31, 093121 (2021).   
5L.-W. Kong, H.-W. Fan, C. Grebogi, and Y.-C. Lai, “Machine learning prediction of critical transition and system collapse,” Phys. Rev. Res. 3, 013090 (2021).   
6J. D. Hart, “Attractor reconstruction with reservoir computers: The effect of the reservoir’s conditional Lyapunov exponents on faithful attractor reconstruction,” Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 34, 043123 (2024).   
7A. Flynn, V. A. Tsachouridis, and A. Amann, “Multifunctionality in a reservoir computer,” Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 31, 013125 (2021).   
8A. Flynn, V. A. Tsachouridis, and A. Amann, “Seeing double with a multifunctional reservoir computer,” Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science 33, 113115 (2023).   
9D. Durstewitz, G. Koppe, and M. I. Thurm, “Reconstructing computational system dynamics from neural data with recurrent neural networks,” Nature Reviews Neuroscience 24, 693–710 (2023).   
10Z. Zhang, Y. Zhao, J. Liu, S. Wang, R. Tao, R. Xin, and J. Zhang, “A general deep learning framework for network reconstruction and dynamics learning,” Applied Network Science 4, 110 (2019).   
11N. Almazova, G. D. Barmparis, and G. P. Tsironis, “Analysis of chaotic dynamical systems with autoencoders,” Chaos 31, 103109 (2021).
