# References

[1] Karl J ˚Astr¨om. Introduction to stochastic control theory. Courier Corporation, 2012.   
[2] Alexander Aurell, Rene Carmona, Gokce Dayanikli, and Mathieu Lauriere. Optimal incentives to mitigate epidemics: a stackelberg mean field game approach. SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 60(2):S294–S322, 2022.   
[3] Dario Bauso, Hamidou Tembine, and Tamer Ba¸sar. Robust mean field games. Dynamic Games and Applications, 6(3):277–303, 2016.   
[4] Alain Bensoussan, KCJ Sung, Sheung Chi Phillip Yam, and Siu-Pang Yung. Linear-quadratic mean field games. Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, 169(2):496–529, 2016.   
[5] Philippe Casgrain and Sebastian Jaimungal. Mean-field games with differing beliefs for algorithmic trading. Mathematical Finance, 30(3):995–1034, 2020.   
[6] John B Conway. A Course in Functional Analysis, volume 96. Springer-Verlag New York, 2 edition, 1990.   
[7] Markus Fischer and Giulia Livieri. Continuous time mean-variance portfolio optimization through the mean field approach. ESAIM: Probability and Statistics, 20:30–44, 2016.   
[8] Rinel Foguen Tchuendom, Roland Malham´e, and Peter E. Caines. On a class of linear quadratic Gaussian quantilized mean field games. Automatica, 170:111878, 2024.   
[9] Shuang Gao, Peter E. Caines, and Minyi Huang. LQG graphon mean field games: Analysis via graphon-invariant subspaces. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 68(12):7482–7497, 2023.   
[10] Shuang Gao and Aditya Mahajan. Optimal control of network-coupled subsystems: Spectral decomposition and low-dimensional solutions. IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, 9(2):657–669, 2021.   
[11] Kuang Huang, Xu Chen, Xuan Di, and Qiang Du. Dynamic driving and routing games for autonomous vehicles on networks: A mean field game approach. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 128:103189, 2021.   
[12] Minyi Huang, Peter E Caines, and Roland P Malham´e. Large-population cost-coupled LQG problems with nonuniform agents: individual-mass behavior and decentralized ε-nash equilibria. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 52(9):1560–1571, 2007.
