# REFERENCES

[1] J.
Berberich, J.
Kohler, M.
A.
M ¨ uller, and F.
Allg ¨ ower, “Data-driven ¨ model predictive control with stability and robustness guarantees,” IEEE Trans.
Aut.
Control, vol.
66, no.
4, pp.
1702–1717, 2021.
[2] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness,” IEEE Trans.
Aut.
Control, vol.
65, no.
3, pp.
909–924, 2019.
[3] ——, “Low-complexity learning of linear quadratic regulators from noisy data,” Automatica, vol.
128, p.
109548, 2021.
[4] G.
Bontempi and M.
Birattari, “From linearization to lazy learning: A survey of divide-and-conquer techniques for nonlinear control (invited paper),” Int.
J.
of Computational Cognition, vol.
3, 01 2004.
[5] T.
Dai and M.
Sznaier, “A semi-algebraic optimization approach to data-driven control of continuous-time nonlinear systems,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
5, no.
2, pp.
487–492, 2020.
[6] M.
Guo, C.
De Persis, and P.
Tesi, “Learning control for polynomial systems using sum of squares relaxations,” in 2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2020, pp.
2436–2441.
[7] W.
Lohmiller and J.-J.
E.
Slotine, “On contraction analysis for non-linear systems,” Automatica, vol.
34, no.
6, pp.
683–696, 1998.
[8] Z.
Aminzare and E.
D.
Sontag, “Contraction methods for nonlinear systems: A brief introduction and some open problems,” in 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2014, pp.
3835–3847.
[9] F.
Bullo, Contraction Theory for Dynamical Systems.
Kindle Direct Publishing, 2024.
[Online].
Available: https://fbullo.github.io/ctds   
[10] E.
M.
Aylward, P.
A.
Parrilo, and J.-J.
E.
Slotine, “Stability and robustness analysis of nonlinear systems via contraction metrics and sos programming,” Automatica, vol.
44, no.
8, p.
2163–2170, Aug.
2008.
[11] A.
Duvall and E.
D.
Sontag, “Global exponential stability or contraction of an unforced system do not imply entrainment to periodic inputs,” in 2024 American Control Conference (ACC), 2024, pp.
1837–1842.
[12] I.
R.
Manchester and J.-J.
E.
Slotine, “Control contraction metrics: Convex and intrinsic criteria for nonlinear feedback design,” IEEE Trans.
Aut.
Control, vol.
62, no.
6, pp.
3046–3053, 2017.
[13] D.
Sun, S.
Jha, and C.
Fan, “Learning certified control using contraction metric,” in conference on Robot Learning.
PMLR, 2021, pp.
1519– 1539.
[14] H.
Tsukamoto and S.-J.
