[30] J.
Espin, C.
Camacho, and O.
Camacho, “Control of non-self-regulating processes with long time delays using hybrid sliding mode control approaches,” Results in Engineering, vol.
22, p.
102113, 2024.
[31] R.
Alika, E.
M.
Mellouli, and E.
H.
Tissir, “A modified sliding mode controller based on fuzzy logic to control the longitudinal dynamics of the autonomous vehicle,” Results in Engineering, p.
102120, 2024.
[32] L.
Medina, G.
Guerra, M.
Herrera, L.
Guevara, and O.
Camacho, “Trajectory tracking for non-holonomic mobile robots: A comparison of sliding mode control approaches,” Results in Engineering, p.
102105, 2024.
[33] M.
said Adouairi, B.
Bossoufi, S.
Motahhir, and I.
Saady, “Application of fuzzy sliding mode control on a single-stage grid-connected pv system based on the voltage-oriented control strategy,” Results in Engineering, vol.
17, p.
100822, 2023.
[34] A.
Tagliabue, M.
Kamel, S.
Verling, R.
Siegwart, and J.
Nieto, “Collaborative transportation using mavs via passive force control,” in 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2017, pp.
5766–5773.
[35] J.
Horyna, T.
Baca, and M.
Saska, “Autonomous collaborative transport of a beam-type payload by a pair of multi-rotor helicopters,” in 2021 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), 2021, pp.
1139–1147.
[36] G.
Loianno and V.
Kumar, “Cooperative transportation using small quadrotors using monocular vision and inertial sensing,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
3, no.
2, pp.
680–687, 2018.
[37] H.
A.
Hashim and F.
L.
Lewis, “Nonlinear stochastic estimators on the special euclidean group SE (3) using uncertain imu and vision measurements,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
51, no.
12, pp.
7587–7600, 2022.
[38] H.
A.
Hashim, “Systematic convergence of nonlinear stochastic estimators on the special orthogonal group SO (3),” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
30, no.
10, pp.
3848–3870, 2020.
[39] A.
Rajaeizadeh, A.
Naghash, and A.
Mohamadifard, “Cooperative aerial payload transportation using two quadrotors,” in Proceedings of the International micro air vehicle conference and flight competition, 2017, pp.
73–80.
[40] D.
Mellinger, M.
Shomin, N.
Michael, and V.
