# REFERENCES

[1] S. Khalid, F. Alnajjar, M. Gochoo, A. Renawi, and S. Shimoda, “Robotic assistive and rehabilitation devices leading to motor recovery in upper limb: a systematic review,” Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, vol. 18, no. 5, pp. 658–672, 2023.   
[2] H. Hasan, “A cost effective deaf-mute electronic assistant system using myo armband and smartphone,” International Journal of Science and Research (IJSR), vol. 6, pp. 950–954, 2017.

[3] H. Naser, H. Hammood, and A. Q. Migot, “Internet-based smartphone system for after-stroke hand rehabilitation,” in 2023 International Conference on Engineering, Science and Advanced Technology (ICESAT). IEEE, 2023, pp. 69–74.   
[4] R. Fuentes-Alvarez, J. H. Hernandez, I. Matehuala-Moran, M. Alfaro-Ponce, R. Lopez-Gutierrez, S. Salazar, and R. Lozano, “Assistive robotic exoskeleton using recurrent neural networks for decision taking for the robust trajectory tracking,” Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 193, p. 116482, 2022.   
[5] H. N. Hasan, “A wearable rehabilitation system to assist partially hand paralyzed patients in repetitive exercises\*,” Journal of Physics: Conference Series, vol. 1279, no. 1, p. 012040, jul 2019.   
[6] J. Li and M. Ensafjoo, “It’s not uav, it’s me: Demographic and selfother effects in public acceptance of a socially assistive aerial manipulation system for fatigue management,” International Journal of Social Robotics, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 227–243, 2024.   
[7] M. Alkaddour, M. A. Jaradat, S. Tellab, N. Sherif, M. Alvi, L. Romdhane, and K. S. Hatamleh, “Novel design of lightweight aerial manipulator for solar panel cleaning applications,” IEEE Access, 2023.   
[8] Z. Ghelichi, M. Gentili, and P. B. Mirchandani, “Drone logistics for uncertain demand of disaster-impacted populations,” Transportation research part C: emerging technologies, vol. 141, p. 103735, 2022.   
[9] D. A. Rodr´ıguez, C. L. Tafur, P. F. M. Daza, J. A. V. Vidales, and J. C. D. Rincon, “Inspection of aircrafts and airports using uas: a review,” ´ Results in Engineering, p. 102330, 2024.
