# 6 Conclusions and Outlook

We presented a privacy-preserving cooperative control scheme realized via encrypted ADMM iterations. Due to the distributed nature of cooperative control, such a solution may be valuable in different scenarios. In comparison to existing solutions, our focus is on a generic optimization problem while privacy guarantees are more strict. That is, we require that agents (or the operator) are only allowed to know their individual quantities and no additional information can be extracted from the received data. To this end, we mainly build on homomorphic encryption, which enables privacy-preserving computations on data exchanged between the agents. In order to manage data access, a special functionality called key switching is used.

We illustrated the effectiveness of our scheme for robot formation control, where only small deviations from a centralized solution arise due to a limited number of ADMM iterations and quantization errors. However, real-time capability is often a challenge due to the computational burden imposed by (current) homomorphic cryptosystems. Therefore, real-world applications are currently restricted to large sample times or agents with significant computational capabilities. Nonetheless, theoretical advances and the use of hardware accelerators may change that [17].

Future research is threefold. First, we plan to apply our scheme to further applications beyond mobile robots. Second, inequality constraints may be additionally considered during the optimization. Third, a stronger attacker model may be addressed, which considers the corruption of multiple agents or malicious behavior. Different cryptographic techniques like secure multi-party computation will be of interest in this context.

Funding: Financial support by the German Research Foundation (DFG) and the Daimler and Benz Foundation under the grants SCHU 2940/4-1, SCHU 2940/5-1, and 32-08/19 is gratefully acknowledged.
