Now, under the reasonable assumption that the agents’ inputsfactor 2 reflects the signed inputs and outputs.
In the  ⋅  ⋅ ( ) ≤ can exclude an overflow if 2 ⋅ 100 ⋅ (????) ≤ ??, where the and outputs remain in the box CKKS implementation in O  factor 2 reflects the signed $[ - \bar { 1 } 0 0 , 1 0 0 ] ^ { 2 }$ , we can excludeas to be provided outputs.
In the an overflow ifCKKS implCKKS impl $2 \cdot 1 0 0 \cdot ( s \sigma ) ^ { 1 6 } \stackrel { \textstyle - } { \le } q .$ , where the factor 2 reflectsFHE, ??
has to be providedFHE, ??
has to be provided the signed inputs and outputs.
In the CKKS implementation= ⋅in the form ??
= ??0 ⋅ ??
by specifying the base modulus ??0,in the form ??
??0 ????
by specifying the base modulus ??0, in OpenFHE, q has to be provided in the form   = the overall scaling factor ??
= ????, and the lethe overall scaling factor ??
????, and the le $q = q _ { 0 } \cdot S ^ { L }$ by specifying the base modulus >  23 25??0 > ??
is required.
Based on??
??
is required.
Based on $q _ { 0 }$ , the overall scaling factor  = he obvious choice ??
= 16,he obvious choice ??
16, $S = s \sigma$ , and the level   = et ??
223 and23 $L ,$ where 0 = 0 22525 $q _ { 0 } > S$ is required.
Based onr experiments, which the obvious choice retains an accuretains an accu  = $L = 1 6 ,$ we set  about about= $S = 2 ^ { 2 3 }$ and ecimecim $q _ { 0 } = 2 ^ { 2 5 }$ for ours (afters (after experiments, which retains an accuracy of about three decimalthe separator) in the output of the algorithm compared tothe separator) in the output of the algorithm compared to digits (after the separator) in the output of the algorithm com-the plaintext result.
Finally, we consider two choices forthe plaintext result.
Finally, we consider two choices for pared to the plaintext result.
Finally, we consider two choicesthe key dimension, namely ??
∈ {2 , 2 }, which result in a8 13 for the key dimension, namely 40 and 70 bit security guar the key dimension, namely ??
$n \in \{ 2 ^ { 8 } , 2 ^ { 1 3 } \}$ , which result intively, accordingwhich result in a a 40 and 70 bit security guarantee, respectively, according to   40 and 70 bit security guarantee, respectively, according the estimator proposed in [3].
