Chirarattananon, “Cooperative transport of a suspended payload via two aerial robots with inertial sensing,” IEEE Access, vol.
10, pp.
81 764–81 776, 2022.
[22] P.-X.
Wu, C.-C.
Yang, and T.-H.
Cheng, “Cooperative transportation of uavs without inter-uav communication,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 2023.
[23] X.
Liang, Z.
Su, W.
Zhou, G.
Meng, and L.
Zhu, “Fault-tolerant control for the multi-quadrotors cooperative transportation under suspension failures,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
119, p.
107139, 2021.
[24] A.
Shevidi and H.
A.
Hashim, “Quaternion-based adaptive backstepping fast terminal sliding mode control for quadrotor UAVs with finite time convergence,” Results in Engineering, p.
102497, 2024.
[25] Y.
Liu, F.
Zhang, P.
Huang, and X.
Zhang, “Analysis, planning and control for cooperative transportation of tethered multi-rotor uavs,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
113, p.
106673, 2021.
[26] B.
Shirani, M.
Najafi, and I.
Izadi, “Cooperative load transportation using multiple uavs,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
84, pp.
158–169, 2019.
[27] S.
Barawkar, M.
Kumar, and M.
Bolender, “Decentralized adaptive controller for multi-drone cooperative transport with offset and moving center of gravity,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
145, p.
108960, 2024.
[28] J.
Cai and B.
Xian, “Robust hierarchical geometry control for the multiple uavs aerial transportation system with a suspended payload,” Nonlinear Dynamics, pp.
1–21, 2024.
[29] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, “UWB ranging and IMU data fusion: Overview and nonlinear stochastic filter for inertial navigation,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2023.
