centralized, distributed, and encrypted solution are depicted inFig. 2: Experimental results for the graphs from Fig. 1. TheFig. 2: Experimental results for the graphs from Fig. 1. TheFigure 2: Experimental results for the graphs from Fig. 1. The green, red, and blue, respectively. Solid lines represent the robot’scentralized, distributed, and encrypted solution are depicted incentralized, distributed, and encrypted solution are depicted trajectories, with circles marking the initial position. Crosses markgreen, red, and blue, respectively. Solid lines represent the robot’sin green, red, and blue, respectively. Solid lines represent the the ideal position and dashed lines (in green, red, and blue) showtrajectories, with circles marking the initial position. Crosses markrobot’s trajectories, with circles marking the initial position. the actual formation at ?? = 20.the actual formation at ?? 20.the ideal position and dashed lines (in green, red, and blue) showCrosses mark the ideal position and dashed lines (in green, the actual formation at ?? = 20.red, and blue) show the actual formation at $t = 2 0$ .

case).the first case; several years to millennia in the secondWith the parameters above, we obtain the blue trajectories in case).Figure 2 when applying our encrypted ADMM scheme to the three examples. It can be seen that the accuracy (mainly depending on s) suffices to reproduce the red plaintext trajectories accurately in all cases. However, the required computational effort can be an issue with respect to real-time requirements. In fact, even for parallelized computations using eight processors (AMD Ryzen 7 5800H, 8× 3.2 GHz) on a computer with 8 GB of RAM, we were able to meet the sampling time of $\Delta t = 1 \mathrm { s }$ only for $n = 2 ^ { 8 }$ and the ring graph setting while neglecting communications times (for exchanging ciphertexts of around 0.1 MB each). For larger ring dimensions n and more complex communication graphs, the required computation times can increase significantly. For instance, $n = 2 ^ { 1 3 }$ results in execution times of around 28 s already for the ring graph (where now ciphertext of around 0.8 MB have to be exchanged). However, even for the more complex cases, real-time capability might be achievable by, e.g., involving other cryptosystems such as secure multi-party computation or hardware accelerators.
