# 4.2.3. Performance evaluation of navigation methods with short-term magnetic storm interference

Due to the interference caused by long-term magnetic storms, we have evaluated the stability and accuracy of the methods discussed in Section 4.2.2, with a particular focus on the impact of accumulated errors. To further evaluate the performance of the Fc-MPC and LTV-MPC methods under the influence of short-term, high-intensity magnetic storm interference, this section utilizes the short-term magnetic storm datasets presented in Section 4.2.1. These datasets are superimposed on the WMM model to complete this section of the simulation, and the simulation area remains the same as that described in Section 4.2.2. The results from the 50 Monte Carlo simulations were also collected to evaluate the stability of the methods, as shown in

Fig. 8. Additionally, the optimal trajectories based on 50 Monte Carlo simulation results are presented in Fig. 9, while detailed performance metrics are shown in Table 7.

In the case of short-term magnetic storms, the optimal performance shown in Table 7 indicates that the trajectory length of the Fc-MPC algorithm (827.00 km) is reduced by 20.53 km compared to LTV-MPC. Additionally, the number of iterations (167) is decreased by a factor of four, demonstrating a higher level of efficiency. The remaining distance for the Fc-MPC (19.72 km) is shortened by 8.34 km, which significantly enhances accuracy. Fc-MPC achieves a mean path deviation of 0.20 km and a maximum path deviation of 0.30 km, demonstrating a more precise and consistent navigation route, as shown in Fig. 9.

Table 7 Performance comparison of LTV-MPC and Fc-MPC under short-term magnetic storm interference.

<table><tr><td>Metric</td><td>LTV-MPC</td><td>Fc-MPC</td></tr><tr><td>Signal-to-noise ratio (dB)</td><td>9.93</td><td>10.06</td></tr><tr><td>Iterations</td><td>171</td><td>167</td></tr><tr><td>Step Var ( $km^2$ )</td><td>0.45</td><td>0.41</td></tr><tr><td>Trajectory length (km)</td><td>847.53</td><td>827.00</td></tr><tr><td>Mean path deviation (km)</td><td>0.27</td><td>0.20</td></tr><tr><td>Max path deviation (km)</td><td>0.44</td><td>0.30</td></tr><tr><td>Remaining distance (km)</td><td>28.06</td><td>19.72</td></tr></table>
