# References

[1] Ahmad Al Badawi, Jack Bates, Flavio Bergamaschi, David Bruce Cousins, Saroja Erabelli, Nicholas Genise, Shai Halevi, Hamish Hunt, Andrey Kim, Yongwoo Lee, Zeyu Liu, Daniele Micciancio, Ian Quah, Yuriy Polyakov, Saraswathy R.V., Kurt Rohloff, Jonathan Saylor, Dmitriy Suponitsky, Matthew Triplett, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, and Vincent Zucca. OpenFHE: Open-Source Fully Homomorphic Encryption Library. In Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Encrypted Computing & Applied Homomorphic Cryptography, WAHC’22, page 53–63, New York, NY, USA, 2022. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450398770.   
[2] Navid Alamati and Chris Peikert. Three’s compromised too: Circular insecurity for any cycle length from (Ring-)LWE. In Advances in Cryptology: 36th Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO), Part II, pages 659–680. Springer, 2016.   
[3] Martin R. Albrecht, Rachel Player, and Sam Scott. On the concrete hardness of learning with errors. Journal of Mathematical Cryptology, 9(3):169–203, 2015.   
[4] Andreea B. Alexandru, Manfred Morari, and George J. Pappas. Cloud-based MPC with encrypted data. In Proc. of the 57th Conference on Decision and Control, pages 5014–5019, 2018.   
[5] Andreea B. Alexandru, Moritz Schulze Darup, and George J. Pappas. Encrypted cooperative control revisited. In Proc. of the 58th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pages 7196–7202, 2019.   
[6] Stephen Boyd, Neal Parikh, Eric Chu, Borja Peleato, and Jonathan Eckstein. Distributed Optimization and Statistical Learning via the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers. Foundations and Trends® in Machine learning, 3(1):1–122, 2011.   
[7] Jung Hee Cheon, Andrey Kim, Miran Kim, and Yongsoo Song. Homomorphic encryption for arithmetic of approximate numbers. In Advances in Cryptology– ASIACRYPT 2017: 23rd International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptology and Information Security, Hong Kong, China, December 3-7, 2017, Proceedings, Part I 23, pages 409–437. Springer, 2017.   
[8] Jung Hee Cheon, Kyoohyung Han, Andrey Kim, Miran Kim, and Yongsoo Song. Bootstrapping for approximate homomorphic encryption. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, Advances in Cryptology – EU-ROCRYPT 2018, pages 360–384, Cham, 2018. Springer International Publishing. ISBN 978-3-319-78381-9.
