The switching nature of the system introduces very interesting properties in the final solution. People are rational agents and they have choice of deciding which path to take in order to minimize the cost. So it is expected that they will take advantage of the fact that some obstacles are removed in the first event at $t _ { e _ { 1 } }$ . This is exactly what we observe in Figure 3.(b),(c), where people gather above the area where the obstacle is expected to be removed, as represented by the area of higher density marked by green ovals. Thus, they can move out quickly after the event happens. Similarly, a higher density is seen near the right-side door in Figure 3.(d) before the second event, since that door is going to be widened to $( x , y ) \in [ 3 5 , 5 0 ] \times \{ 0 \}$ . Furthermore, the congestion effects manifest in the form of lower velocity in areas where density is higher. This is represented by the length of arrows in Figure 2, for example, the length is smaller in the intersection of the corridor with the path between the obstacles.

Meanwhile, Algorithm 1 can be used to obtain the solution for the mean field control problem in (33) with the same boundary condition transitions. This scenario corresponds to a social optimum, where individuals coordinate with each other to determine the best possible strategy. Initially, the total number of people in the room is 3300. It is numerically verified that MFC leads to a faster and more efficient evacuation of the crowd in comparison to MFG (see Figure 4). In this case, the Price of Anarchy calculated using (12) turns out to be $\mathrm { P o A } ~ = ~ 1 . 0 1 8 1$ . Additionally, when the second event occurs and the right door is widened, a discontinuity appears in the slope of the curve, and the evacuation rate increases.
