Kumar, “Cooperative grasping and transport using multiple quadrotors,” in Distributed Autonomous Robotic Systems: The 10th International Symposium.
Springer, 2013, pp.
545–558.
[41] F.
Augugliaro and R.
D’Andrea, “Admittance control for physical human-quadrocopter interaction,” in 2013 European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2013, pp.
1805–1810.
[42] P.
Prajapati and V.
Vashista, “Aerial physical human robot interaction for payload transportation,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2023.
[43] M.
Xu, A.
Hu, and H.
Wang, “Visual-impedance-based human–robot cotransportation with a tethered aerial vehicle,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol.
19, no.
10, pp.
10 356–10 365, 2023.
[44] M.
Romano, A.
Ye, J.
Pye, and E.
Atkins, “Cooperative multilift slung load transportation using haptic admittance control guidance,” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, vol.
45, no.
10, pp.
1899–1912, 2022.
[45] H.
A.
Hashim, “Special Orthogonal Group SO(3), Euler Angles, Angleaxis, Rodriguez Vector and Unit-quaternion: Overview, Mapping and Challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.06669, 2019.
[46] H.
A.
Hashim, L.
J.
Brown, and K.
McIsaac, “Nonlinear stochastic attitude filters on the special orthogonal group 3: Ito and Stratonovich,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
49, no.
9, pp.
1853–1865, 2019.
[47] M.
Boukattaya, N.
Mezghani, and T.
Damak, “Adaptive nonsingular fast terminal sliding-mode control for the tracking problem of uncertain dynamical systems,” ISA transactions, vol.
77, pp.
1–19, 2018.
[48] M.
Tognon, R.
Alami, and B.
Siciliano, “Physical human-robot interaction with a tethered aerial vehicle: Application to a force-based human guiding problem,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
37, no.
3, pp.
723–734, 2021.
