While omitting technical details, we will briefly discuss ourscaling factor ?? in (11) and the number of encrypted mul-  parameters. Now, the choice of ?? depends on the selected choice of the modulus scaling factor ?? in (1scaling factor ?? in (1 $q$ and the dimension n of the secret and the number of encrypted mul- and the number of encrypted mulkeys tiptip $\mathtt { s k } _ { i }$ because security mainly relies on these parameters.tions because they (implicitly) increase the scaling.tions because they (implicitly) increase the scaling. Now, the choice of q depends on the selected scaling factor sIn this context, the updates (12), (13), and (16) amountIn this context, the updates (12), (13), and (16) amount in (11) and the number of encrypted multiplications becauseto three successive (i.e., non-parallelizable) multiplicationsto three successive (i.e., non-parallelizable) multiplications they (implicitly) increase the scaling. In this context, the up-per ADMM iteration. One extra multiplication is required dates (12), (13), and (16) amount to three successive (i.e.,during the final key switch after ℓ iterations. Thus, ourduring the final key switch after ℓ iterations. Thus, our non-parallelizable) multiplications per ADMM iteration. Oneimplementation must support 3ℓ + 1 = 16 successive multi-implementation must support 3ℓ 1 16 successive multiextra multiplication is required during the final key switchplications. Moreover, in order to counteract noise-flooding        +  = after ℓ iterations. Thus, our implementation must supportin CKKS, an additional “internal” scaling ?? is required.in CKKS, an additional “internal” scaling ?? is required. $3 \ell + 1 = 1 6$ successive multiplications. Moreover, in order overall scaling becomes (????)16.16 an additional “internal” scaling ?? is required. to counteract noise-flooding in CKKS, an additional “inter-Now, under the reasonable assumption that the agents’( )Thus, the overall scaling becomes (????) . nal” scaling σ is required. Thus, the overall scaling becomesinputs and outputs remain in the box 100, 100 2, we2Now, under the reasonable assumption that the agents’ $( s \sigma ) ^ { 1 6 }$ .ett
