Chung, “Neural contraction metrics for robust estimation and control: A convex optimization approach,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
5, no.
1, p.
211–216, Jan.
2021.
[15] G.
Chou, N.
Ozay, and D.
Berenson, “Model error propagation via learned contraction metrics for safe feedback motion planning of unknown systems,” in 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2021, pp.
3576–3583.
[16] B.
Yi and I.
R.
Manchester, “On the equivalence of contraction and koopman approaches for nonlinear stability and control,” IEEE Trans.
Aut.
Control, vol.
69, no.
7, pp.
4336–4351, 2023.
[17] S.
Otto, S.
Peitz, and C.
Rowley, “Learning bilinear models of actuated koopman generators from partially observed trajectories,” SIAM J.
on Applied Dynamical Systems, vol.
23, no.
1, pp.
885–923, 2024.
[18] Z.
Liu, N.
Ozay, and E.
D.
Sontag, “Properties of immersions for systems with multiple limit sets with implications to learning Koopman embeddings,” Automatica, vol.
176, p.
112226, 2025.
[19] Z.
Hu, C.
D.
Persis, and P.
Tesi, “Enforcing contraction via data,” 2024.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07819   
[20] R.
A.
Horn and C.
R.
Johnson, Matrix Analysis.
Cambridge University Press, 1985.
[21] C.
W.
Scherer and C.
W.
Hol, “Matrix Sum-of-Squares Relaxations for Robust Semi-Definite Programs,” Mathematical Programming, vol.
107, no.
1, pp.
189–211, 2006.
[22] M.
Putinar, “Positive Polynomials on Compact Semi-algebraic Sets,” Indiana University Mathematics Journal, vol.
42, no.
3, pp.
969–984, 1993.
[23] C.
W.
Scherer and C.
W.
J.
Hol, “Matrix sum-of-squares relaxations for robust semi-definite programs,” Mathematical Programming, vol.
107, no.
1, pp.
189–211, 2006.
[24] S.
Boyd and L.
Vandenberghe, Convex optimization.
Cambridge university press, 2004.
[25] K.
Leung and I.
R.
Manchester, “Nonlinear stabilization via control contraction metrics: A pseudospectral approach for computing geodesics,” in 2017 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
1284– 1289.
