[10] P.
Radoglou-Grammatikis, P.
Sarigiannidis, T.
Lagkas, and I.
Moscholios, “A compilation of uav applications for precision agriculture,” Computer Networks, vol.
172, p.
107148, 2020.
[11] S.
Meesaragandla, M.
P.
Jagtap, N.
Khatri, H.
Madan, and A.
A.
Vadduri, “Herbicide spraying and weed identification using drone technology in modern farms: A comprehensive review,” Results in Engineering, p.
101870, 2024.
[12] G.
Albeaino, M.
Gheisari, and R.
R.
Issa, “Human-drone interaction (hdi): Opportunities and considerations in construction,” Automation and robotics in the architecture, engineering, and construction industry, pp.
111–142, 2022.
[13] J.
M.
Nwaogu, Y.
Yang, A.
P.
Chan, and H.-l.
Chi, “Application of drones in the architecture, engineering, and construction (aec) industry,” Automation in Construction, vol.
150, p.
104827, 2023.
[14] H.
Ranjbar, P.
Forsythe, A.
A.
F.
Fini, M.
Maghrebi, and T.
S.
Waller, “Addressing practical challenge of using autopilot drone for asphalt surface monitoring: Road detection, segmentation, and following,” Results in Engineering, vol.
18, p.
101130, 2023.
[15] M.
A.
Cheema, R.
I.
Ansari, N.
Ashraf, S.
A.
Hassan, H.
K.
Qureshi, A.
K.
Bashir, and C.
Politis, “Blockchain-based secure delivery of medical supplies using drones,” Computer Networks, vol.
204, p.
108706, 2022.
[16] I.
H.
B.
Pizetta, A.
S.
Brandao, and M.
Sarcinelli-Filho, “Load trans- ˜ portation by quadrotors in crowded workspaces,” IEEE Access, vol.
8, pp.
223 941–223 951, 2020.
[17] Z.
Ghelichi, M.
Gentili, and P.
B.
Mirchandani, “Logistics for a fleet of drones for medical item delivery: A case study for louisville, ky,” Computers & Operations Research, vol.
135, p.
105443, 2021.
[18] H.
A.
Hashim, “Exponentially stable observer-based controller for VTOL-UAVs without velocity measurements,” International Journal of Control, vol.
96, no.
8, pp.
1946–1960, 2023.
[19] D.
K.
Villa, A.
S.
Brandao, and M.
Sarcinelli-Filho, “A survey on load transportation using multirotor uavs,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
98, pp.
267–296, 2020.
[20] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and A.
Odry, “Observer-based controller for VTOL-UAVs tracking using direct vision-aided inertial navigation measurements,” ISA transactions, vol.
137, pp.
133–143, 2023.
[21] H.
Xie, K.
Dong, and P.
