Monitoring-based neural policy and Lyapunov function repair. We now show how the verdicts of our monitors are used to obtain new training data that describes certificate violations (recall, for the stability property monitors cannot detect property violations), and how this new training data is used for the policy and Lyapunov function repair. Algorithm 2 takes as input the neural network control policy π and neural network Lyapunov function V, trained as above. It also takes as input a finite set of time points $t _ { 0 } = 0 < t _ { 1 } < \cdots < t _ { N }$ at which the monitor observes new states, as well as the number D of state trajectories that it monitors. Since we are interested in a stability property, only the CertPM monitor can be used.

Algorithm 2 first initializes the monitor M by constructing the CertPM (line 1), the set of new training data $D _ { \mathrm { N e w - d a t a } }$ which is initially empty (line 2) and a set $\tilde { \mathcal { X } } _ { 0 } \subseteq \mathcal { X } _ { 0 }$ of $D$ initial states obtained via sampling from the initial set $\mathcal { X } _ { 0 }$ (line 3). Then, for each initial state $x _ { 0 } \in \mathsf { \Gamma } \tilde { \mathcal { X } } _ { 0 } .$ , it executes the dynamical system to obtain a state trajectory $x ( t )$ from $x ( 0 ) ~ = ~ x _ { 0 }$ (line 5). For each time point $t _ { n } , { \textbf { a } }$ new state $x _ { n }$ is observed (line 7) and the monitor verdict $\mathcal { M } ( x _ { 0 } , x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } )$ is computed (line 8). If ${ \mathcal { M } } ( x _ { 0 } , x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { n } ) = 1$ , i.e. if the monitor issues a certificate violation verdict, the new state $x _ { n }$ is added to the new training dataset $D _ { \mathrm { N e w - d a t a } }$ (line 8). Once the new data is collected, it is used to initialize the new training datasets $D _ { \mathtt { G } } ^ { \mathtt { r e p a i r } } = D _ { \mathtt { N e w - d a t a } } \cap \mathcal { X } _ { g }$ and $D _ { \mathrm { N } } ^ { \mathrm { r e p a i r } } = D _ { \mathrm { N e w - d a t a } } \cap ( \mathcal { X } \backslash \mathcal { X } _ { g } )$ (line 9). Finally, the neural network policy π and the neural network Lyapunov function V are repaired by being retraining on the loss function in eq. (2) with the new training datasets (line 11). If we are only interested in repairing the Lyapunov function V for a fixed control policy π, only the network V is repaired while keeping the parameters of π fixed (line 13).
