[9] Farhad Farokhi, Iman Shames, and Nathan Batterham.
Secure and private control using semi-homomorphic encryption.
Control Engineering Practice, 67:13–20, 2017.
[10] Muneeb U.
Hassan, Mubashir Husain Rehmani, and Jinjun Chen.
Differential privacy techniques for cyber physical systems: a survey.
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 22(1):746–789, 2019.
[11] Andrey Kim, Yuriy Polyakov, and Vincent Zucca.
Revisiting homomorphic encryption schemes for finite fields.
In Advances in Cryptology: 27th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security (ASIACRYPT), Part III 27, pages 608–639.
Springer, 2021.
[12] Junsoo Kim, Hyungbo Shim, and Kyoohyung Han.
Dynamic controller that operates over homomorphically encrypted data for infinite time horizon.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 68(2):660–672, 2023.
[13] Kiminao Kogiso and Takahiro Fujita.
Cyber-security enhancement of networked control systems using homomorphic encryption.
In Proc.
of the 54th Conference on Decision and Control, pages 6836–6843, 2015.
[14] Yehuda Lindell.
Secure Multiparty Computation.
Commun.
ACM, 64(1):86–96, dec 2020.
ISSN 0001-0782.
[15] Ampolu Maneesha and K.
Shanti Swarup.
A survey on applications of alternating direction method of multipliers in smart power grids.
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 152:111687, 2021.
[16] Matteo Marcantoni, Bayu Jayawardhana, Mariano Perez Chaher, and Kerstin Bunte.
Secure formation control via edge computing enabled by fully homomorphic encryption and mixed uniform-logarithmic quantization.
IEEE Control Systems Letters, 7:395–400, 2023.
[17] Chiara Marcolla, Victor Sucasas, Marc Manzano, Riccardo Bassoli, Frank HP.
Fitzek, and Najwa Aaraj.
Survey on fully homomorphic encryption, theory, and applications.
Proceedings of the IEEE, 110(10):1572–1609, 2022.
[18] Erfan Nozari, Pavankumar Tallapragada, and Jorge Cortes.
Differentially private distributed convex opti- ´ mization via objective perturbation.
In 2016 American control conference (ACC), pages 2061–2066.
IEEE, 2016.
[19] Kwang-Kyo Oh, Myoung-Chul Park, and Hyo-Sung Ahn.
A survey of multi-agent formation control.
Automatica, 53:424–440, 2015.
[20] Pascal Paillier.
Public-key cryptosystems based on composite degree residuosity classes.
