[27] B.
Rathnayake and M.
Diagne, “Observer-based periodic eventtriggered boundary control of the one-phase Stefan problem,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
56, no.
2, pp.
11 415–11 422, 2023.
[28] “Observer-based event-triggered boundary control of the onephase Stefan problem,” International Journal of Control, vol.
97, no.
12, pp.
2975–2986, 2024.
[29] “Observer-based periodic event-triggered and self-triggered boundary control of a class of parabolic PDEs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
12, pp.
8836–8843, 2024.
[30] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, J.
Cortes, and M.
Krstic, “Performance-´ barrier event-triggered control of a class of reaction–diffusion PDEs,” Automatica, vol.
174, p.
112181, 2025.
[31] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, N.
Espitia, and I.
Karafyllis, “Observerbased event-triggered boundary control of a class of reaction–diffusion PDEs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
6, pp.
2905–2917, 2022.
[32] B.
Rathnayake, M.
Diagne, and I.
Karafyllis, “Sampled-data and eventtriggered boundary control of a class of reaction–diffusion PDEs with collocated sensing and actuation,” Automatica, vol.
137, p.
110026, 2022.
[33] T.
B.
Sheridan, “Driver distraction from a control theory perspective,” Human factors, vol.
46, no.
4, pp.
587–599, 2004.
[34] A.
Terrand-Jeanne, V.
Andrieu, V.
D.
S.
Martins, and C.-Z.
Xu, “Adding integral action for open-loop exponentially stable semigroups and application to boundary control of PDE systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
11, pp.
4481–4492, 2020.
[35] M.
Treiber and A.
Kesting, “Traffic flow dynamics,” Traffic Flow Dynamics: Data, Models and Simulation, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, vol.
227, p.
228, 2013.
[36] R.
Vazquez, M.
Krstic, and J.-M.
Coron, “Backstepping boundary stabilization and state estimation of a 2 × 2 linear hyperbolic system,” in 2011 50th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control and European Control Conference, 2011, pp.
4937–4942.
[37] M.
Wakaiki and H.
Sano, “Event-triggered control of infinitedimensional systems,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
58, no.
2, pp.
605–635, Jan.
2020.
[38] ——, “Stability analysis of infinite-dimensional event-triggered and selftriggered control systems with Lipschitz perturbations,” Mathematical Control and Related Fields, vol.
12, no.
1, pp.
245–273, 2022.
[39] J.
Wang and M.
