Krstic, “Event-triggered adaptive control of a parabolic PDE-ODE cascade with piecewise-constant inputs and identification,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2023.
[40] ——, “Event-triggered adaptive control of coupled hyperbolic PDEs with piecewise-constant inputs and identification,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
3, pp.
1568–1583, 2023.
[41] W.
Wang, R.
Postoyan, D.
Nesiˇ c, and W.
P.
M.
H.
Heemels, “Periodic´ event-triggered control for nonlinear networked control systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
2, pp.
620–635, Feb.
2020.
[42] X.
Wang, Y.
Tang, C.
Fiter, and L.
Hetel, “Sampled-data distributed control for homo-directional linear hyperbolic system with spatially sampled state measurements,” Automatica, vol.
139, p.
110183, 2022.
[43] G.
B.
Whitham, Linear and Nonlinear Waves.
John Wiley & Sons, Oct.
2011.
[44] X.
Yi, K.
Liu, D.
V.
Dimarogonas, and K.
H.
Johansson, “Dynamic event-triggered and self-triggered control for multi-agent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
8, pp.
3300–3307, Aug.
2019.
[45] H.
Yu, M.
Diagne, L.
Zhang, and M.
Krstic, “Bilateral boundary control of moving shockwave in LWR model of congested traffic,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
3, pp.
1429–1436, 2021.
[46] H.
Yu and M.
Krstic, “Varying speed limit control of Aw-Rascle-Zhang Traffic Model,” in 2018 21st International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), Nov.
2018, pp.
1846–1851.
[47] ——, Traffic Congestion Control by PDE Backstepping.
Springer, 2022.
[48] H.
Yu, S.
Park, A.
Bayen, S.
Moura, and M.
Krstic, “Reinforcement learning versus PDE backstepping and PI control for congested freeway traffic,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
30, no.
4, pp.
1595–1611, 2022.
[49] L.
Zhang, H.
Luan, Y.
Lu, and C.
Prieur, “Boundary feedback stabilization of freeway traffic networks: ISS control and experiments,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
30, no.
3, pp.
997– 1008, 2022.
[50] L.
Zhang and C.
Prieur, “Necessary and sufficient conditions on the exponential stability of positive hyperbolic systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
62, no.
7, pp.
3610–3617, 2017.

[51] L. Zhang, C. Prieur, and J. Qiao, “PI boundary control of linear hyperbolic balance laws with stabilization of ARZ traffic flow models,” Systems & Control Letters, vol. 123, pp. 85–91, Jan. 2019.
