# REFERENCES

[1] A. Aw and M. Rascle, “Resurrection of second order models of traffic flow,” SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics, vol. 60, no. 3, pp. 916– 938, Jan. 2000.   
[2] G. Bastin, J.-M. Coron, A. Hayat, and P. Shang, “Exponential boundary feedback stabilization of a shock steady state for the inviscid Burger’s equation,” Mathematical Models and Methods in Applied Sciences, vol. 29, no. 02, pp. 271–316, 2019.

[3] A.
M.
Bayen, R.
L.
Raffard, and C.
J.
Tomlin, “Network congestion alleviation using adjoint hybrid control: Application to highways,” in International Workshop on Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control.
Springer, 2004, pp.
95–110.
[4] N.
Bekiaris-Liberis and A.
I.
Delis, “PDE-based feedback control of freeway traffic flow via time-gap manipulation of ACC-equipped vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
29, no.
1, pp.
461–469, 2021.
[5] M.
A.
Davo, D.
Bresch-Pietri, C.
Prieur, and F.
Di Meglio, “Stability ´ analysis of a 2x2 linear hyperbolic system with a sampled-data controller via backstepping method and looped-functionals,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
4, pp.
1718–1725, 2019.
[6] M.
Diagne and I.
Karafyllis, “Event-triggered boundary control of a continuum model of highly re-entrant manufacturing systems,” Automatica, vol.
134, p.
109902, 2021.
[7] N.
Espitia, “Observer-based event-triggered boundary control of a linear 2 × 2 hyperbolic systems,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
138, p.
104668, Apr.
2020.
[8] N.
Espitia, J.
Auriol, H.
Yu, and M.
Krstic, “Traffic flow control on cascaded roads by event-triggered output feedback,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
32, no.
10, pp.
5919– 5949, Jul.
2022.
[9] N.
Espitia, A.
Girard, N.
Marchand, and C.
Prieur, “Event-based boundary control of a linear 2× 2 hyperbolic system via backstepping approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
63, no.
8, pp.
2686–2693, Aug.
2018.
[10] N.
Espitia, I.
Karafyllis, and M.
Krstic, “Event-triggered boundary control of constant-parameter reaction–diffusion PDEs: A small-gain approach,” Automatica, vol.
128, p.
109562, 2021.
[11] N.
Espitia, H.
Yu, and M.
Krstic, “Event-triggered varying speed limit control of stop-and-go traffic,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
53, no.
2, pp.
7509–7514, 2020.
[12] E.
Fridman and A.
Blighovsky, “Robust sampled-data control of a class of semilinear parabolic systems,” Automatica, vol.
48, no.
5, pp.
826– 836, 2012.
[13] A.
Girard, “Dynamic triggering mechanisms for event-triggered control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
60, no.
7, pp.
1992–1997, Jul.
2015.
[14] B.
D.
Greenshields, J.
R.
Bibbins, W.
S.
Channing, and H.
H.
Miller, “A study of traffic capacity,” Highway Research Board Proceedings, vol.
14, 1935.
[15] M.
Gugat, M.
Herty, A.
Klar, and G.
