The average dwell time, denoted as $\bar { \Delta t _ { k } } .$ , serves as a Safety Index (SI). For small values of $\bar { \Delta t _ { k } }$ , drivers exiting the VSL zone are likely to be required to check and adjust their speed more frequently in response to rapidly changing VSL signs. As a consequence, an increased cognitive burden puts safety at risk and is likely to cause the drivers’ speed adjustment errors. In light of the SI measure, P-ETC approaches are safer than their regular counterparts. In summary, TABLE I demonstrates a correlation between enhanced safety and an increase of the resource-aware parameter c. Here, the ‘resource’ being saved is (ironically) the risk inflicted upon the safety of the drivers. Remarkably, the safety index improvement is 2.9×, 2.9×, and 1.3× for P-CETC, P-PETC, and P-STC, respectively, relative to their regular counterparts.

The comparison of the three performance metrics of the proposed methods is listed in the TABLE I. The total travel time $( J _ { \mathrm { T T T } } )$ and fuel consumption $\left( J _ { \mathrm { f u e l } } \right)$ for the three P-ETC approaches are reduced by at least 1% compared to the openloop system, with the influence of c being negligible, which is consistent with their R-ETC counterparts. Hence, reducing stop-and-go traffic has almost no effect on fuel consumption or travel time, at least for the linear ARZ model. The travel discomfort $\left( J _ { \mathrm { D } } \right)$ is significantly reduced by both the R/P-CETC and R/P-PETC approaches compared to the open-loop system, with reductions ranging between 45% and 80%, as the controls suppress stop-and-go oscillations in the closed-loop system. The largest decrease in travel discomfort $\left( J _ { \mathrm { D } } \right)$ is observed with the R/P-STC approach, which achieves a reduction of around 92% compared to the open-loop system. This is because R/P-STC results in frequent control updates, closely emulating continuous-time control.
