# REFERENCES

Aranovskiy, S., Bobtsov, A., Ortega, R., and Pyrkin, A. (2016). Parameters estimation via dynamic regressor extension and mixing. In American Control Conference, 6971–6976.

Boyd, S.
and Sastry, S.S.
(1986).
Necessary and sufficient conditions for parameter convergence in adaptive control.
Automatica, 22(6), 629–639.
Cho, N., Shin, H.S., Kim, Y., and Tsourdos, A.
(2017).
Composite model reference adaptive control with parameter convergence under finite excitation.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 63(3), 811–818.
Chowdhary, G., Yucelen, T., M¨uhlegg, M., and Johnson, E.N.
(2013).
Concurrent learning adaptive control of linear systems with exponentially convergent bounds.
International Journal of Adaptive Control and Signal Processing, 27(4), 280–301.
Duarte, M.A.
and Narendra, K.S.
(1989).
Combined direct and indirect approach to adaptive control.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 34(10), 1071–1075.
Gallegos, J.
and Aguila-Camacho, N.
(2024).
Relaxed excitation conditions for robust identification and adaptive control using estimation with memory.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 62(1), 1–21.
Gerasimov, D.N., Ortega, R., and Nikiforov, V.O.
(2018).
Relaxing the high-frequency gain sign assumption in direct model reference adaptive control.
European Journal of Control, 43, 12–19.
Glushchenko, A.
and Lastochkin, K.
(2022).
Exponentially convergent direct adaptive pole placement control of plants with unmatched uncertainty under fe condition.
IEEE Control Systems Letters, 6, 2527–2532.
Ioannou, P.A.
and Sun, J.
(1996).
Robust adaptive control, volume 1.
PTR Prentice-Hall Upper Saddle River, NJ.
Johnson, C.R.
and Horn, R.A.
(1985).
Matrix analysis.
Cambridge university press Cambridge.
Marino, R.
and Tomei, P.
(2022).
On exponentially convergent parameter estimation with lack of persistency of excitation.
Systems & Control Letters, 159, 105080.
Narendra, K.S.
and Annaswamy, A.M.
(2012).
Stable adaptive systems.
Courier Corporation.
Ortega, R., Nikiforov, V., and Gerasimov, D.
(2020).
On modified parameter estimators for identification and adaptive control.
a unified framework and some new schemes.
Annual Reviews in Control, 50, 278–293.
Ortega, R., Romero, J.G., and Aranovskiy, S.
(2022).
A new least squares parameter estimator for nonlinear regression equations with relaxed excitation conditions and forgetting factor.
Systems & Control Letters, 169, 105377.
Pan, Y.
and Yu, H.
(2018).
Composite learning robot control with guaranteed parameter convergence.
Automatica, 89, 398–406.
