# REFERENCES

[1] K.
R.
Davis, C.
M.
Davis, S.
A.
Zonouz, R.
B.
Bobba, R.
Berthier, L.
Garcia, and P.
W.
Sauer, “A cyber-physical modeling and assessment framework for power grid infrastructures,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol.
6, no.
5, pp.
2464–2475, 2015.
[2] T.
Li, B.
Sun, Y.
Chen, Z.
Ye, S.
H.
Low, and A.
Wierman, “Learningbased predictive control via real-time aggregate flexibility,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol.
12, no.
6, pp.
4897–4913, 2021.
[3] X.
Huo, H.
Huang, K.
R.
Davis, H.
V.
Poor, and M.
Liu, “A review of scalable and privacy-preserving multi-agent frameworks for distributed energy resources,” Adv.
Appl.
Energy, p.
100205, 2024.
[4] M.
Mahzarnia, M.
P.
Moghaddam, P.
T.
Baboli, and P.
Siano, “A review of the measures to enhance power systems resilience,” IEEE Syst.
J, vol.
14, no.
3, pp.
4059–4070, 2020.
[5] M.
F.
Fard, X.
Huo, and M.
Liu, “Exploration of for-purpose decentralized algorithmic cyber attacks in EV charging control,” in Proc.
32nd Int.
Symp.
Ind.
Electron., Helsinki, Finland, Jun.
19-21 2023, pp.
1–6.
[6] A.
Sahu, P.
Wlazlo, N.
Gaudet, A.
Goulart, E.
Rogers, and K.
Davis, “Generation of firewall configurations for a large scale synthetic power system,” in Proc.
IEEE Tex.
Power Energy Conf., College Station, TX, USA, Feb.
28-Mar.
01 2022, pp.
1–6.
[7] A.
Rostami, M.
Mohammadi, and H.
Karimipour, “Reliability assessment of cyber-physical power systems considering the impact of predicted cyber vulnerabilities,” Int.
J.
Electr.
Power Energy Syst., vol.
147, p.
108892, 2023.
[8] K.
Lai, M.
Illindala, and K.
Subramaniam, “A tri-level optimization model to mitigate coordinated attacks on electric power systems in a cyber-physical environment,” Appl.
Energy, vol.
235, pp.
204–218, 2019.
[9] T.
R.
B.
Kushal and M.
S.
Illindala, “Decision support framework for resilience-oriented cost-effective distributed generation expansion in power systems,” IEEE Trans.
Ind.
Appl., vol.
57, no.
2, pp.
1246–1254, 2020.
[10] M.
B.
Cain, R.
P.
O’neill, A.
Castillo et al., “History of optimal power flow and formulations,” FERC, vol.
1, pp.
1–36, 2012.
[11] “Spanning Tree Protocols.” [Online].
Available: https://www.ieee802.org/1/files/public/docs2009/ aq-seaman-merged-spanning-tree-protocols-0509.pdf   
[12] R.
Liu, C.
Vellaithurai, S.
S.
Biswas, T.
T.
Gamage, and A.
K.
Srivastava, “Analyzing the cyber-physical impact of cyber events on the power grid,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol.
6, no.
5, pp.
