[14] Hossein Sholehrasa.
Integrating protein sequence and expression level to analysis molecular characterization of breast cancer subtypes.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.01755, 2024.
[15] Nikolaus Correll, Bradley Hayes, Christoffer Heckman, and Alessandro Roncone.
Introduction to autonomous robots: Mechanisms.
Sensors, Actuators, and Algorithms.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,, 2022.
[16] Mousa Alizadeh, Mohammad Hossein Samaei, Mahdi Vahid Estakhri, Hamidreza Momeni, and Mohammad TH Beheshti.
Robust trajectory tracking of a 3-dof robotic arm using a super-twisting fast finite time non-singular terminal sliding mode control in the presence of perturbations.
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part I: Journal of Systems and Control Engineering, 238(7):1285–1295, 2024.
[17] Marco Tulio Angulo, Jaime A Moreno, and Leonid Fridman.
Robust exact uniformly convergent arbitrary order differentiator.
Automatica, 49(8):2489–2495, 2013.
[18] Mousa Alizadeh, Amin Ramezani, and Hadis Saadatinezhad.
Fault tolerant control in an unmanned bicycle robot via sliding mode theory.
IET Cyber-Systems and Robotics, 4(2):139–152, 2022.
[19] Zefeng Xu, Wenkai Huang, Zexuan Li, Linkai Hu, and Puwei Lu.
Nonlinear nonsingular fast terminal sliding mode control using deep deterministic policy gradient.
Applied Sciences, 11(10):4685, 2021.
[20] Van Mien, Hee-Jun Kang, and Kyoo-Sik Shin.
Adaptive fuzzy quasi-continuous high-order sliding mode controller for output feedback tracking control of robot manipulators.
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science, 228(1):90–107, 2014.
[21] Xinghuo Yu and Man Zhihong.
Fast terminal sliding-mode control design for nonlinear dynamical systems.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Fundamental Theory and Applications, 49(2):261–264, 2002.
[22] Feng Qiao, Quanmin Zhu, Alan Winfield, Chris Melhuish, and Lifeng Zhang.
Indirect fuzzy adaptive control of robotic manipulator based on sliding mode scheme.
In 2007 International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation, pages 3310–3315.
IEEE, 2007.
[23] Junyong Zhai and Zeyu Li.
Fast-exponential sliding mode control of robotic manipulator with super-twisting method.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, 69(2):489–493, 2021.

[24] Mohammad Hossein Samaei, Soheil Sheikh Ahmadi, Mojtaba Naderi Soorki, and Seyed Shoja Amini. Comment on s. ahmed, h. wang, and y. tian,“robust adaptive fractional-order terminal sliding mode control for lower-limb exoskeleton,” asian j. control, vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 1–10 (2019). Asian Journal of Control, 25(3):2433–2436, 2023.
