# References

[1] Hossein Sadegh and Hassan Zarabadipour. Modeling, simulation and position control of 3dof articulated manipulator. Indonesian Journal of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, 2(3):132–140, 2014.   
[2] Frank Merat. Introduction to robotics: Mechanics and control. IEEE Journal on Robotics and Automation, 3(2):166–166, 1987.

[3] Quang Vinh Doan, Anh Tuan Vo, Tien Dung Le, Hee-Jun Kang, and Ngoc Hoai An Nguyen.
A novel fast terminal sliding mode tracking control methodology for robot manipulators.
Applied Sciences, 10(9):3010, 2020.
[4] Shiwei Liu, Gaoliang Peng, and Huijun Gao.
Dynamic modeling and terminal sliding mode control of a 3-dof redundantly actuated parallel platform.
Mechatronics, 60:26–33, 2019.
[5] Mien Van, Xuan Phu Do, and Michalis Mavrovouniotis.
Self-tuning fuzzy pid-nonsingular fast terminal sliding mode control for robust fault tolerant control of robot manipulators.
ISA transactions, 96:60–68, 2020.
[6] Ankur Goel and Akhilesh Swarup.
Mimo uncertain nonlinear system control via adaptive high-order super twisting sliding mode and its application to robotic manipulator.
Journal of Control, Automation and Electrical Systems, 28:36–49, 2017.
[7] Mehran Rahmani, Hossein Komijani, and Mohammad Habibur Rahman.
New sliding mode control of 2-dof robot manipulator based on extended grey wolf optimizer.
International Journal of Control, Automation and Systems, 18:1572–1580, 2020.
[8] Ali Medjebouri and Lamine Mehennaoui.
Adaptive neuro-sliding mode control of puma 560 robot manipulator.
Journal of Automation Mobile Robotics and Intelligent Systems, 10(4):8–16, 2016.
[9] Sanaz Saki Norouzi, Mohammad Masjedi, Hossein Sholehrasa, Samira Alkaee Taleghan, and Ali Arastehfard.
Primer on deep learning models.
In Handbook on Neurosymbolic AI and Knowledge Graphs, pages 3–37.
IOS Press, 2025.
[10] Mousa Alizadeh, Mohammad Hossein Samaei, Azam Seilsepour, and Mohammad TH Beheshti.
Epidemic forecasting with a hybrid deep learning method using cnn-lstm with woa-gwo parameter optimization: Global covid-19 case study.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.12813, 2025.
[11] Hoai Vu Anh Truong, Duc Thien Tran, Xuan Dinh To, Kyoung Kwan Ahn, and Maolin Jin.
Adaptive fuzzy backstepping sliding mode control for a 3-dof hydraulic manipulator with nonlinear disturbance observer for large payload variation.
Applied Sciences, 9(16):3290, 2019.
[12] Ahmed F Amer, Elsayed A Sallam, and Wael M Elawady.
Adaptive fuzzy sliding mode control using supervisory fuzzy control for 3 dof planar robot manipulators.
Applied Soft Computing, 11(8):4943–4953, 2011.
[13] Mark W Spong, Seth Hutchinson, and Mathukumalli Vidyasagar.
Robot modeling and control.
John Wiley & Sons, 2020.
