[6] Liu Hsu, Ramon R.
Costa, and Jose Paulo Vilela Soares da Cunha.
Model-reference output-feedback sliding mode controller for a class of multivariable nonlinear systems.
Asian Journal of Control, 5(4):543 – 556, 2003.
[7] T.
A.
Keijock, E.
V.
L.
Nunes, and L.
Hsu.
On the fragility of multivariable super-twisting algorithm for nonsymmetric uncertain input matrix.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, volume 2019- December, pages 7857–7862, 2019.
[8] L.
S.
Lasdon.
Optimization Theory for Large Systems.
New York, NY, USA: Macmillan Company, 1970.
[9] A.
Levant.
Higher-order sliding modes, differentiation and output-feedback control.
Int.
J.
Contr., 76(9):924–941, 2003.
[10] A.
Levant.
Construction principles of 2-sliding mode design.
Automatica, 43:576–586, 2007.
[11] Arie Levant.
Sliding order and sliding accuracy in sliding mode control.
International Journal of Control, 58(6):1247– 1263, 1993.
[12] F.
L´opez-Caamal and J.
A.
Moreno.
Generalised multivariable supertwisting algorithm.
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 29(3):634–660, 2019.
[13] J.
A.
Moreno.
A linear framework for the robust stability analysis of a generalized super-twisting algorithm.
In 2009 6th International Conference on Electrical Engineering, Computing Science and Automatic Control, CCE 2009, 2009.
[14] J.
A.
Moreno, H.
Rios, L.
Ovalle, and L.
Fridman.
Multivariable super-twisting algorithm for systems with uncertain input matrix and perturbations.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 67(12):6716–6722, 2022.
[15] Jaime A.
Moreno and Juan F.
Garc´ıa-Mathey.
Mimo supertwisting controller using a passivity-based design.
Journal of the Franklin Institute, 361(17), 2024.
[16] Indira Nagesh and Christopher Edwards.
A multivariable super-twisting sliding mode approach.
Automatica, 50(3):984–988, 2014.
[17] E.
V.
L.
Nunes, J.
C.
Geromel, and L.
Hsu.
Lmi-based robust multivariable super-twisting algorithm design for a class of linear systems.
In 2024 17th International Workshop on Variable Structure Systems (VSS), pages 196 – 201, 2024.
[18] D.
Shevitz and B.
Paden.
Lyapunov stability theory of nonsmooth systems.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 39(9):1910 – 1914., 1994.
[19] Y.
B.
Shtessel, C.
Edwards, L.
Fridman, and A.
Levant.
Sliding Mode Control and Observation.
New York, NY, USA: Springer-Verlag, 2014.
[20] V.
I.
Utkin.
