(2). The generalized cost function coincides with the original one if the randomized SDE is integrable. Specifically, under Assumption 5.1, for any u¯ ∈ A¯ s.t. $( \bar { X } _ { T } ^ { \bar { u } } , \bar { X } ^ { \bar { u } } ) \in L ^ { 1 } ( \Omega ) \times H ^ { 1 } ( \Omega ; [ 0 , T ] )$ ,

$$\bar {J} (\bar {u}; \omega) = \tilde {J} (\bar {u}; \omega), \quad \mathbb {P} - a. s.$$

Moreover, Proposition 5.2 holds with the value function (5.11) replaced by (5.15).

To state a SMP for generalized pathwise stochastic control problems we consider the (adjoint) BSDE

$$d Y _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}} = - \left(\partial_ {x} b _ {t} (X _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}}, u _ {t} ^ {\eta}) Y _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}} + \partial_ {x} \sigma_ {t} (X _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}}, u _ {t} ^ {\eta}) Z _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}} + A _ {t} ^ {\eta} \partial_ {x} h (X _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}}, u _ {t} ^ {\eta})\right) d t + Z _ {t} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}} d W _ {t}, \tag {5.16}Y _ {T} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}} = A _ {T} ^ {\eta} \partial_ {x} g (X _ {T} ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}}),$$

where Aη denotes the solution to the rODE (4.6). This is a standard BSDE with $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ -progressively measurable coefficients, and thus $( Y ^ { \eta , u ^ { \eta } } , Z ^ { \eta , u ^ { \eta } } )$ is $B ( \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha } )$ )-progressively measurable. As a result, the process

$$\left(\bar {Y} ^ {\bar {u}}, \bar {Z} ^ {\bar {u}}\right) := \left(Y ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}}, Z ^ {\eta , u ^ {\eta}}\right) | _ {\boldsymbol {\eta} = \mathbf {B} \left(\omega^ {\prime}\right)}$$

is $( \mathcal { F } _ { T } ^ { \prime } \otimes \mathcal { F } _ { t } ^ { \prime \prime } )$ -progressively measurable.

In view of Proposition 5.2, Remark 5.2 and the rough SMP developed in the last section, we obtain the following SMP for generalized pathwise stochastic control problems. The proof follows from Theorem 4.5, Proposition 5.2, Remark 5.2 along with the fact that the adjoint BSDE is a standard Itˆo BSDE.

Theorem 5.3 (SMP for generalized pathwise stochastic control). Suppose that Assumption 5.1 holds and for any $\eta \in \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha }$ , the Hamiltonian $H = H ^ { \eta 5 }$ is given by (4.13).

(1) (Necessary) Suppose that $( \bar { u } ^ { * } , \bar { X } ^ { * } )$ is an optimal pair for the generalized pathwise control problem (5.15). Let $\boldsymbol { u } ^ { * , \eta }$ be given by (5.5) with $\bar { u } = \bar { u } ^ { * }$ , and let $X ^ { * , \eta }$ be the corresponding solution to (5.8). Then for any $v \in V ,$
