Proof. Observe that Assumption 4.2 ensures that $( \mathcal { F } _ { s } ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ is the augmented natural filtration of the Brownian motion W .

(i) First, note that Proposition B.7 implies that there exists a unique solution $( \widehat { \mathcal { V } } , \widehat { \mathcal { Z } } )$ of the Riccati BSDE (B.11) and that $\widehat { \mathcal { V } }$ is $\mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n } .$ -valued. Furthermore, Assumption B.2, Remark 2.2, the fact that $\mathcal { Q } ( I _ { n } - F )$ and $\mathcal { R } - \delta I _ { n }$ are $d P \times d s \mathrm { - a . e . ~ } \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued, (15), and (18) ensure that the assumptions (A1), (A5), (A6), and $( \mathrm { A } 7 )$ in Kohlmann & Tang [41] are satisfied. Noting [41, Section 4], we can thus apply [41, Theorem 3.11], which yields the existence of a unique solution of the linear BSDE (B.13).

(ii) Proposition B.7 ensures that there exists a unique solution $( \widehat { \mathcal { V } } , \widehat { \mathcal { Z } } )$ of the Riccati more, Assumption B.2, Remark 2.2, the fact that BSDE (B.11) and that there exists $\varepsilon \in ( 0 , \infty )$ such that $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { Q } ( I _ { n } - F ) , \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { m } \bar { \pmb { \sigma } } _ { k } \pmb { \sigma } _ { k } - \delta I _ { n } } \end{array}$ $\widehat { \mathcal { V } } - \varepsilon I _ { n }$ is $\mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n } .$ -valued. Further- , and R are $d P \times d s \mathrm { - a . e . ~ } \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n } -$ valued, (15), and (18) guarantee that the assumptions (A1), (A2), (A5), (A6)’, and (A7) in [41] are satisfied. Therefore, [41, Theorem 3.11] implies the existence of a unique solution of the linear BSDE (B.13). □

Given a solution $( \widehat { \mathcal { V } } , \widehat { \mathcal { Z } } )$ of the BSDE (B.11) and a solution $( \widehat { \psi } , \widehat { \phi } )$ of the BSDE (B.13), we define the $\mathbb { R } ^ { n } .$ -valued progressively measurable process $\widehat { \theta } ^ { 0 } = ( \widehat { \theta } ^ { 0 } ( s ) ) _ { s \in [ 0 , T ] }$ by, for all $s \in [ 0 , T ]$ ,

$$
\begin{array}{l} \widehat {\theta} ^ {0} (s) = - \left(\mathcal {R} (s) + 4 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} (s) \widehat {\mathcal {Y}} (s) \mathcal {C} ^ {k} (s)\right) ^ {- 1} \tag {B.15} \\ \cdot \left((\mathcal {B} (s)) ^ {\top} \widehat {\psi} (s) - 2 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} (s) \left[ \widehat {\phi} ^ {k} (s) + 2 \widehat {\mathcal {Y}} (s) \mathcal {C} ^ {k} (s) F (s) \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (s) \zeta (s) \right]\right). \\ \end{array}
$$
