that 2ρj + µj − Pmk=1 σ (cf. Remark 2.2). This representation for $\begin{array} { r } { 2 \widetilde { \rho } _ { j } + \mu _ { j } - \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { m } \sigma _ { j , k } ^ { 2 } > 0 } \end{array}$ , and $\Xi = 0$ $\kappa ,$ the fact that for all demonstrate that there exists $j \in \{ 1 , \ldots , n \}$ $\delta \in ( 0 , \infty )$ it holds esuch that $\mathcal { R } - \delta I _ { n } = \kappa - \delta I _ { n }$ is positive semidefinite. Hence, Assumption 4.3 is satisfied (cf. Remark 4.4). □

Due to Lemma C.13 and Corollary 4.7 we obtain that in Setting C.12 there exists a unique optimal strategy in $A ^ { p m }$ for $J ^ { p m }$ . Further, note that in Setting C.12 the unique solution of the BSDE (33) is given by $( \mathcal { V } , 0 )$ where ${ \mathcal { V } } \equiv Y$ is the unique solution of the matrix Riccati ordinary differential equation

$$
\begin{array}{l} \frac {d Y (s)}{d s} = - Y (s) \mathcal {A} - \mathcal {A} Y (s) - \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} Y (s) \mathcal {C} ^ {k} + \left(Y (s) \mathcal {B} - 2 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} Y (s) \mathcal {C} ^ {k}\right) \\ \cdot \left(\kappa + 4 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} Y (s) \mathcal {C} ^ {k}\right) ^ {- 1} \bigg (\mathcal {B} ^ {\top} Y (s) - 2 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} Y (s) \mathcal {C} ^ {k} \bigg), \quad s \in [ 0, T ], \\ Y (T) = \frac {1}{2} I _ {n} \tag {C.28} \\ \end{array}
$$

(cf., for example, [55, Theorem 7.2]).

We first present a deterministic example which illustrates cross-effects of the price impact $\gamma$ on the optimal strategy.

Example C.14. Within Setting C.12 let $n = 2 , d = 0 , x = ( 1 0 0 , 0 ) ^ { \top } , \lambda _ { 1 } ( 0 ) = 1 = \lambda _ { 2 } ( 0 )$ , $\widetilde { \rho } _ { 1 } = 1 = \widetilde { \rho } _ { 2 } , \sigma = 0 , \mu = ( 3 , 1 ) ^ { \top }$ , and

$$
O = \frac {1}{5} \left( \begin{array}{c c} 3 & 4 \\ - 4 & 3 \end{array} \right). \tag {C.29}
$$

Then, the resilience is given by $\rho = I _ { 2 }$ and the price impact is given by

$$
\gamma (s) = O ^ {\top} \mathrm{diag} (e ^ {3 s}, e ^ {s}) O = \frac {1}{2 5} \left( \begin{array}{c c} 9 e ^ {3 s} + 1 6 e ^ {s} & 1 2 (e ^ {3 s} - e ^ {s}) \\ 1 2 (e ^ {3 s} - e ^ {s}) & 1 6 e ^ {3 s} + 9 e ^ {s} \end{array} \right), \quad s \in [ 0, T ]. \qquad (\mathrm{C.30})
$$
