# 6. Appendix

This appendix collects two auxiliary results on progressively measurable stochastic processes. All processes are defined on a filtered probability space $( \Omega , \{ \mathcal { F } _ { t } \} _ { t } , \mathcal { F } , \mathbb { P } )$ that satisfies the usual conditions and supports a Brownian motion $( B _ { t } ) _ { t }$ , and $( U , { \mathcal { U } } )$ is a measurable space.

The first proposition is taken from [19, Theorem 18.25].

Proposition 6.1. Let $J : [ 0 , T ] \times \Omega \times U  \mathbb { R }$ be a U-progressively measurable function and X be a continuous semimartingale, such that for any $u \in U$ and some $p > 0$ ,

$$\mathbb {E} \left[ \left(\int_ {0} ^ {T} (J _ {s} ^ {u}) ^ {2} d \langle X \rangle_ {s}\right) ^ {p} \right] < \infty .$$

Then the stochastic integral $\textstyle \left( \int _ { 0 } ^ { t } J _ { s } ^ { u } d X _ { s } \right)$ has a U-progressively measurable version.

The next lemma is adapted from [27, Theorem 62].

Lemma 6.2. Suppose that $Z ^ { n } : [ 0 , T ] \times \Omega \times U  \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ has a U-progressively measurable version in the sense of Definition 3.8 and that $Z ^ { n } ( \cdot , u )$ is a c\`adl\`ag process for each $u \in U$ and $n \in \mathbb { N }$ . Let $Z : [ 0 , T ] \times \Omega \times U  \mathbb { R } ^ { d }$ . If the sequence $\{ Z ^ { n } ( \cdot , u ) \} _ { n }$ converges to $Z ( \cdot , u )$ uniformly in time in probability for each $u \in U$ , then Z has a progressively measurable version that is $\mathbb { P } { - } a . s$ . c\`adl\`ag for each $u \in U$ .

Proof. Without loss of generality, we assume that $Z ^ { n }$ is U-progressively measurable; else we use its progressive version. The processes

$$\Delta_ {t} ^ {i, j} (\omega , u) := | Z ^ {i} - Z ^ {j} | (t, \omega , u)$$

are U-progressively measurable. Let $n _ { 0 } ^ { u } : = 1$ , and for any $k \geq 1$ , let

$$n _ {k} ^ {u} := \inf \{n > (k \vee n _ {k - 1} ^ {u}): \sup _ {i, j \geq n} P (\sup _ {t \in [ 0, T ]} \Delta_ {t} ^ {i, j} > 2 ^ {- k}) \leq 2 ^ {- k} \}.$$

For any u, $\Delta ^ { i , j } ( \cdot , u )$ is c\`adl\`ag and adapted, hence $n _ { k } ^ { u } : U \to \mathbb { N }$ is measurable. Thus, for any fixed $( k , t )$ , $\tilde { Z } _ { t } ^ { k } ( \omega , u ) : = Z _ { t } ^ { n _ { k } ^ { u } } ( \omega , u )$ is measurable w.r.t. $\mathcal { F } _ { t } \otimes \mathcal { U }$ , and for any $( \omega , u )$ , is c\`adl\`ag in time. For any $( t , \omega , u )$ , let

$$
\tilde {Z} _ {t} (\omega , u) := \left\{ \begin{array}{l l} \lim _ {k} \tilde {Z} _ {t} ^ {k} (\omega , u), & \text { if   the   limit   exists }, \\ 0, & \text { otherwise }. \end{array} \right.
$$
