# B.3. Solution of the trade execution problem for progressively measurable strategies

In Corollary B.10 we state the solution of the trade execution problem of Section 3.1 with general targets $\xi$ and ζ. This result is a consequence of Proposition B.9, Corollary B.6, Lemma B.5, and Corollary 4.1.

Corollary B.10. Let Assumption 4.2 and Assumption B.2 be in force. Assume that ${ \mathcal { Q } } ( I _ { n } - F )$ and R are $d P \times d s \ – a . e . \ \mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued. Suppose that there exists $\delta \in ( 0 , \infty )$ such that $\mathcal { R } - \delta I _ { n }$ is dP × ds-a.e. $\mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued, or such that $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { m } \pmb { \sigma } _ { k } \pmb { \sigma } _ { k } - \delta I _ { n } } \end{array}$ is $d P \times d s -$ a.e. $\mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued. Let $( \widehat { \mathcal { V } } , \widehat { \mathcal { Z } } )$ be the unique solution of the Riccati BSDE (B.11) (cf. Proposition B.7). Recall the definition (B.12) of $\widehat { \theta }$ and let $( \widehat { \psi } , \widehat { \phi } )$ be the unique solution of the linear BSDE (B.13) (cf. Proposition B.8). Recall the definition (B.15) of ${ \widehat { \theta } } ^ { 0 }$ and let H∗ be the unique solution of the SDE (B.16) (cf. Proposition B.9).

Then there exists a unique (up to $d P \times d s – n u l l ~ s e t s )$ minimizer $X ^ { \ast }$ of $J ^ { p m }$ in $A ^ { p m }$ . Moreover, it holds that

$$X ^ {*} (0 -) = x, \quad X ^ {*} (T) = \xi ,X ^ {*} (s) = \gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (s) \big (\big (\widehat {\theta} (s) + F (s) - I _ {n} \big) \widehat {\mathcal {H}} ^ {*} (s) + F (s) \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (s) \zeta (s) - \widehat {\theta} ^ {0} (s) \big), \quad s \in [ 0, T).$$

The deviation process $D ^ { * } : = D ^ { X ^ { * } }$ (defined in (23)) satisfies that

$$D ^ {*} (s) = \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (s) \big (\big (\widehat {\theta} (s) + F (s) \big) \widehat {\mathcal {H}} ^ {*} (s) + F (s) \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (s) \zeta (s) - \widehat {\theta} ^ {0} (s) \big), \quad s \in [ 0, T).$$

The optimal costs are given by

$$\inf _ {X \in \mathcal {A} ^ {p m}} J ^ {p m} (X) = \left(\gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (0) d - \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (0) x\right) ^ {\top} \widehat {\mathcal {Y}} (0) \left(\gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (0) d - \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (0) x\right)- 2 \big (\gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (0) d - \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (0) x \big) ^ {\top} \widehat {\psi} (0) + \widehat {V} ^ {0} - \frac {1}{2} d ^ {\top} \gamma^ {- 1} (0) d,$$

with ${ \widehat { V } } ^ { 0 }$ from (B.17).

Remark B.11. Suppose that $\xi = 0$ and $\zeta = 0$ in the setting of Corollary B.10. Then $( \widehat \psi , \widehat \phi ) = ( 0 , 0 )$ is the unique solution of the linear BSDE (B.13) and it follows that $\widehat { \theta } ^ { 0 } = 0$ in (B.15) and $\widehat V ^ { 0 } = 0$ in (B.17).
