It follows from the measurability of the composition of measurable mappings that ${ \bar { X } } ^ { \bar { u } }$ is $( \mathcal { F } _ { T } ^ { \prime } \otimes \mathcal { F } _ { t } ^ { \prime \prime } ) _ { t } -$ progressively measurable. Thus, if the cost variable $\begin{array} { r } { g ( \bar { X } _ { T } ^ { \bar { u } } ) + \int _ { 0 } ^ { T } h ( s , \bar { X } _ { s } ^ { \bar { u } } , \bar { u } _ { s } ) d s } \end{array}$ is integrable on $( \Omega , \mathcal { F } , \mathbb { P } )$ , it is natural to consider the cost functional

$$\bar {J} (\bar {u}; \omega) := \mathbb {E} \left[ g \left(\bar {X} _ {T} ^ {\bar {u}}\right) + \int_ {0} ^ {T} h \left(s, \bar {X} _ {s} ^ {\bar {u}}, \bar {u} _ {s}\right) d s \mid \mathcal {F} _ {T} ^ {B} \right] \tag {5.10}$$

and the corresponding value function

$$\bar {\mathcal {V}} (\omega) := \operatorname{essinf} _ {\bar {u} \in \bar {\mathcal {A}}} \bar {J} (\bar {u}; \omega). \tag {5.11}$$

The following is our equivalence result. It shows when rough and pathwise problems share the same value function and optimal controls, respectively.

Proposition 5.2. Suppose Assumption 5.1 holds. Let $\eta \in \mathcal { C } _ { g } ^ { 0 , \alpha }$ be any geometric rough path. For any anticipative control $\bar { u } \in \bar { A } ,$ let $u ^ { \eta }$ be the control given by (5.5) and $X ^ { \eta , u ^ { \eta } }$ be the solution to (5.8), and let ${ \bar { X } } ^ { \bar { u } }$ be the randomized solution given by (5.9). Then the following holds.

(1) If the payoff $\begin{array} { r } { g ( \bar { X } _ { T } ^ { \bar { u } } ) + \int _ { 0 } ^ { T } h ( s , \bar { X } _ { s } ^ { \bar { u } } , \bar { u } _ { s } ) d s } \end{array}$ is integrable on $( \Omega , \mathcal { F } , \mathbb { P } )$ , then the anticipative and randomised rough cost function coincide a.s.:

$$\bar {J} (\bar {u}; \omega) = \mathbb {E} \left[ g (X _ {T} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}, u ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}}}) + \int_ {0} ^ {T} h (s, X _ {s} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}, u ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}}}, u _ {s} ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}}) d s \right] \bigg | _ {\boldsymbol {\eta} = \mathbf {B} (\omega^ {\prime})} = J (u ^ {\boldsymbol {\eta}}; \boldsymbol {\eta}) | _ {\boldsymbol {\eta} = \mathbf {B} (\omega^ {\prime})} \quad \mathbb {P} \text {-a.s.} \tag {5.12}$$

Similarly, for any $u \in A ^ { o }$ , let u¯ be given by (5.6). Then

$$\bar {J} (\bar {u}; \omega) = J (u (\pmb {\eta}, \cdot); \pmb {\eta}) | _ {\pmb {\eta} = \mathbf {B} (\omega)} \quad \mathbb {P} \text {-a.s.}$$
