[10] S. Ataei, D. Maity, and D. Goswami, “Koopman meets limited bandwidth: Effect of quantization on data-driven linear prediction and control of nonlinear systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.07714, 2025.   
[11] P. J. Schmid, “Dynamic mode decomposition of numerical and experimental data,” Journal of Fluid Mechanics, vol. 656, pp. 5–28, 2010.   
[12] M. O. Williams, I. G. Kevrekidis, and C. W. Rowley, “A data–driven approximation of the Koopman operator: extending Dynamic Mode Decomposition,” Journal of Nonlinear Science, vol. 25, pp. 1307–1346, Dec 2015.   
[13] M. Fu, “A tutorial on quantized feedback control,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 5–17, 2024.   
[14] B. Widrow, “Statistical analysis of amplitude-quantized sampled-data systems,” Transactions of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Part II: Applications and Industry, vol. 79, no. 6, pp. 555–568, 1961.   
[15] L. Schuchman, “Dither signals and their effect on quantization noise,” IEEE Transactions on Communication Technology, vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 162–165, 1964.   
[16] L. Grune and J. Pannek, ¨ Nonlinear Model Predictive Control. Springer International Publishing, 2017.   
[17] C. Cruz-Hernandez, J. Alvarez-Gallegos, and R. Castro-Linjares, “Sta- ´ bility of discrete nonlinear systems under novanishing pertuabations: application to a nonlinear model-matching problem,” IMA Journal of Mathematical Control and Information, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 23–41, 1999.   
[18] H. Khalil, Nonlinear Systems. Pearson Education International Incorporated, 2015.   
[19] G. Goel and B. Hassibi, “Competitive control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 5162–5173, 2022.
