# REFERENCES

[1] W.
Luo and K.
Sycara, “Adaptive sampling and online learning in multi-robot sensor coverage with mixture of gaussian processes,” in IEEE international conference on robotics and automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2018, pp.
6359–6364.
[2] J.
Banfi, A.
Q.
Li, N.
Basilico, I.
Rekleitis, and F.
Amigoni, “Asynchronous multirobot exploration under recurrent connectivity constraints,” in IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2016, pp.
5491–5498.
[3] A.
Bolu and O.
Korc¸ak, “Adaptive task planning for multi-robot smart ¨ warehouse,” IEEE Access, vol.
9, pp.
27 346–27 358, 2021.
[4] J.
L.
Baxter, E.
Burke, J.
M.
Garibaldi, and M.
Norman, “Multi-robot search and rescue: A potential field based approach,” Autonomous robots and agents, pp.
9–16, 2007.
[5] J.
Grover, C.
Liu, and K.
Sycara, “The before, during, and after of multi-robot deadlock,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol.
42, no.
6, pp.
317–336, 2023.
[6] L.
Wang, A.
D.
Ames, and M.
Egerstedt, “Safety barrier certificates for collisions-free multirobot systems,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
33, no.
3, pp.
661–674, 2017.
[7] F.
Celi, L.
Wang, L.
Pallottino, and M.
Egerstedt, “Deconfliction of motion paths with traffic inspired rules,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
4, no.
2, pp.
2227–2234, 2019.
[8] Y.
Zhu and S.
B.
Andersson, “Safety guaranteed optimal control policy for multi-agent data harvesting using a clf-cbf approach,” in American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
2123–2128.
[9] J.
Liu, M.
Li, J.-K.
Huang, and J.
W.
Grizzle, “Realtime safety control for bipedal robots to avoid multiple obstacles via clf-cbf constraints,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.01906, 2023.
[10] B.
Renault, J.
Saraydaryan, D.
Brown, and O.
Simonin, “Multi-robot navigation among movable obstacles: Implicit coordination to deal with conflicts and deadlocks,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2024, pp.
3505– 3511.
[11] D.
Martinez-Baselga, E.
Sebastian, E.
Montijano, L.
Riazuelo, ´ C.
Sagu¨es, and L.
Montano, “Avocado: Adaptive optimal collision ´ avoidance driven by opinion,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.00507, 2024.
[12] J.
S.
Grover, C.
Liu, and K.
