[5] H.
A.
Hashim, A.
E.
Eltoukhy, and K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, “UWB Ranging and IMU Data Fusion: Overview and Nonlinear Stochastic Filter for Inertial Navigation,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.
25, no.
1, pp.
359–369, 2024.
[6] D.
K.
D.
Villa and et al., “Cooperative load transportation with two quadrotors using adaptive control,” IEEE Access, vol.
9, pp.
129 148– 129 160, 2021.
[7] D.
Chaikalis and et al., “Decentralized leader-follower visual cooperative package transportation using unmanned aerial manipulators,” in 2023 European Control Conference (ECC), 2023, pp.
1–5.
[8] H.
Lee, H.
Kim, W.
Kim, and H.
J.
Kim, “An integrated framework for cooperative aerial manipulators in unknown environments,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
3, no.
3, pp.
2307–2314, 2018.
[9] Y.
H.
Tan, S.
Lai, K.
Wang, and B.
M.
Chen, “Cooperative control of multiple unmanned aerial systems for heavy duty carrying,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
46, pp.
44–57, 2018.
[10] G.
Loianno and V.
Kumar, “Cooperative transportation using small quadrotors using monocular vision and inertial sensing,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
3, no.
2, pp.
680–687, 2018.
[11] H.
Naser, H.
A.
Hashim, and M.
Ahmadi, “Aerial Assistive Payload Transportation using Quadrotor UAVs with Nonsingular Fast Terminal SMC for Human Physical Interaction,” Results in Engineering, vol.
25, p.
103701, 2025.
[12] H.
A.
Hashim and K.
G.
Vamvoudakis, “Adaptive Neural Network Stochastic-Filter-based Controller for Attitude Tracking with Disturbance Rejection,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, vol.
35, no.
1, pp.
1217–1227, 2024.
[13] M.
Romano, A.
Ye, J.
Pye, and E.
Atkins, “Cooperative multilift slung load transportation using haptic admittance control guidance,” Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics, vol.
45, pp.
1899–1912, 2022.
[14] G.
Li, X.
Liu, and G.
Loianno, “Safety-aware human-robot collaborative transportation and manipulation with multiple mavs,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.05894, 2022.
[15] G.
Li, R.
Ge, and G.
Loianno, “Cooperative transportation of cable suspended payloads with mavs using monocular vision and inertial sensing,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol.
6, no.
3, pp.
5316– 5323, 2021.
[16] S.
Barawkar and M.
