Remark C.2. Consider Setting 4.10. The representation $\kappa = { \textstyle \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \gamma ^ { - \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( \rho \gamma + \gamma \rho ^ { \top } ) \gamma ^ { - \frac { 1 } { 2 } }$ and the fact that $\gamma ^ { - \frac { 1 } { 2 } } \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ show that $\kappa \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ is satisfied if and only if $\rho \gamma + \gamma \rho ^ { \top } \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n } .$ . If $\rho \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ and $\rho \gamma = \gamma \rho ;$ , then this condition holds true. Moreover, we can use Conley et al. [24, Theorem 2.1] to provide a sufficient criterion without the requirement that $\gamma$ and $\rho$ commute: Suppose that $\rho \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ and denote by $\eta _ { 1 } ( \rho ) , \eta _ { n } ( \rho )$ a smallest, respectively largest, eigenvalue of $\rho .$ Analogously, let $\eta _ { 1 } ( \gamma ) , \ \eta _ { n } ( \gamma )$ denote a smallest, respectively largest, eigenvalue of $\gamma$ . If

$$\left(\sqrt {\frac {\eta_ {n} (\gamma)}{\eta_ {1} (\gamma)}} - 1\right) \left(\sqrt {\frac {\eta_ {n} (\rho)}{\eta_ {1} (\rho)}} - 1\right) < 2,$$

then it holds that $\kappa \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$

We apply this result in the next example.

Example C.3. In Setting 4.10 let $n = 2 , d = 0$ ,

$$
\gamma = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 2 & 1 \\ 1 & 1 \end{array} \right), \quad \text {and} \quad \rho = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 3 & 2 \\ 2 & 5 \end{array} \right).
$$

Note that the only difference to Example C.1 is the entry 3, respectively 1, in $\rho .$ As in Example C.1, it holds that $\gamma \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ and $\rho \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ . Moreover, √ $\rho$ and √ $\gamma$ do not commute. The eigenvalues of $\rho$ in the present example are $4 + { \sqrt { 5 } }$ and $4 - { \sqrt { 5 } }$ . For $\gamma$ we have the eigenvalues ${ \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( 3 + { \sqrt { 5 } } )$ and ${ \frac { 1 } { 2 } } ( 3 - { \sqrt { 5 } } )$ . We compute that

$$\left(\sqrt {\frac {\frac {1}{2} (3 + \sqrt {5})}{\frac {1}{2} (3 - \sqrt {5})}} - 1\right) \left(\sqrt {\frac {4 + \sqrt {5}}{4 - \sqrt {5}}} - 1\right) < 2$$

and conclude via Remark C.2 that $\kappa \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ . Thus, Corollary 4.11 applies and in contrast to Example C.1 we obtain finite minimal costs and the existence of an optimal strategy. Moreover, the present example illustrates that to be able to apply Corollary 4.11, it is not necessary to assume that $\rho$ and $\gamma$ commute.

Furthermore, note that $\rho$ does not need to be symmetric for Corollary 4.11 to apply:
