Sycara, “Deadlock analysis and resolution for multi-robot systems,” in Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics XIV: Proceedings of the Fourteenth Workshop on the Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics 14.
Springer, 2021, pp.
294–312.
[13] Y.
Chen, M.
Guo, and Z.
Li, “Deadlock resolution and feasibility guarantee in mpc-based multi-robot trajectory generation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.06071, 2022.
[14] M.
F.
Reis, A.
P.
Aguiar, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier functionbased quadratic programs introduce undesirable asymptotically stable equilibria,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
5, no.
2, pp.
731–736, 2020.
[15] M.
Cavorsi, L.
Sabattini, and S.
Gil, “Multi-robot adversarial resilience using control barrier functions,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2023.
[16] M.
Desai and A.
Ghaffari, “Auxiliary control to avoid undesirable equilibria in constrained quadratic programs for trajectory tracking applications,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2023.
[17] A.
D.
Ames, S.
Coogan, M.
Egerstedt, G.
Notomista, K.
Sreenath, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier functions: Theory and applications,” in 18th European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
3420– 3431.
[18] A.
D.
Ames, J.
W.
Grizzle, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier function based quadratic programs with application to adaptive cruise control,” in 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control.
IEEE, 2014, pp.
6271–6278.
[19] W.
Luo, W.
Sun, and A.
Kapoor, “Multi-robot collision avoidance under uncertainty with probabilistic safety barrier certificates,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
33, pp.
372–383, 2020.
[20] Y.
Lyu, W.
Luo, and J.
M.
Dolan, “Risk-aware safe control for decentralized multi-agent systems via dynamic responsibility allocation,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
1–8.
[21] G.
Notomista, “Resilience and energy-awareness in constraint-drivencontrolled multi-robot systems,” in American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2022, pp.
3682–3687.
[22] “Rosbot manuals,” https://husarion.com/manuals/rosbot/, accessed: 2023.

[23] S. Wilson, P. Glotfelter, L. Wang, S. Mayya, G. Notomista, M. Mote, and M. Egerstedt, “The robotarium: Globally impactful opportunities, challenges, and lessons learned in remote-access, distributed control of multirobot systems,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 26–44, 2020.   
[24] R. Olfati-Saber, “Near-identity diffeomorphisms and exponential/spl epsi/-tracking and/spl epsi/-stabilization of first-order nonholonomic se (2) vehicles,” in Proceedings of the american control conference (ieee cat. no. ch37301), vol. 6. IEEE, 2002, pp. 4690–4695.
