# References

[1] Charalambos D. Aliprantis and Kim C. Border. Infinite Dimensional Analysis: A Hitchhiker’s Guide. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2nd edition, 1999.   
[2] Andrew L Allan and Samuel N Cohen. Pathwise stochastic control with applications to robust filtering. Ann. Appl. Probab., 30(5), 2020.   
[3] Peter Bank, Christian Bayer, Peter Friz, and Luca Pelizzari. Rough pdes for local stochastic volatility models. Mathematical Finance, to appear, 2025+.   
[4] Christian Bayer, Peter K Friz, and Nikolas Tapia. Stability of deep neural networks via discrete rough paths. SIAM Journal on Mathematics of Data Science, 5(1):50–76, 2023.   
[5] Jean-Michel Bismut. Controle des systemes lineaires quadratiques : Applications de l’integrale stochastique. In C. Dellacherie, P. A. Meyer, and M. Weil, editors, S´eminaire de Probabilit´es XII, pages 180–264, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1978. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.   
[6] Rainer Buckdahn and Jin Ma. Pathwise stochastic control problems and stochastic hjb equations. SIAM journal on control and optimization, 45(6):2224–2256, 2007.   
[7] Fabio Bugini, Michele Coghi, and Torstein Nilssen. Malliavin calculus for rough stochastic differential equations. arXiv:2402.12056 [math.PR], 2024.   
[8] Gabriel Burstein and Mark H.A. Davis. A deterministic approach to stochastic optimal control with application to anticipative control. Stochastics, 40(3+4):203–256, 1992.   
[9] D. Crisan, J. Diehl, P. K. Friz, and H. Oberhauser. Robust filtering: Correlated noise and multidimensional observation. The Annals of Applied Probability, 23(5):2139 – 2160, 2013.
