Further, given a solution $( \widehat { \mathcal { V } } , \widehat { \mathcal { Z } } )$ of the BSDE (B.11) and a solution $( \widehat { \psi } , \widehat { \phi } )$ of the BSDE (B.13) we consider the Rn-valued SDE

$$
\begin{array}{l} d \widehat {\mathcal {H}} ^ {*} (s) = \left[ \mathcal {A} (s) + \mathcal {B} (s) \big (F (s) + \widehat {\theta} (s) \big) \right] \widehat {\mathcal {H}} ^ {*} (s) d s + \mathcal {B} (s) \big [ F (s) \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (s) \zeta (s) - \widehat {\theta} ^ {0} (s) \big ] d s \\ + \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} (s) \left(I _ {n} - 2 \left(F (s) + \widehat {\theta} (s)\right)\right) \widehat {\mathcal {H}} ^ {*} (s) d W _ {k} (s) \\ + 2 \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {m} \mathcal {C} ^ {k} (s) \big (\widehat {\theta} ^ {0} (s) - F (s) \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (s) \zeta (s) \big) d W _ {k} (s), \quad s \in [ 0, T ], \\ \end{array}
\widehat {\mathcal {H}} ^ {*} (0) = \gamma^ {- \frac {1}{2}} (0) d - \gamma^ {\frac {1}{2}} (0) x. \tag {B.16}$$

We can now solve under appropriate conditions the LQ stochastic control problem given by (B.10) and (B.9). For this, we rely on Kohlmann & Tang [41].

Proposition B.9. Let Assumption $4 . 2$ and Assumption B.2 be in force. Assume that ${ \mathcal { Q } } ( I _ { n } - F )$ and R are d $\phantom { } ^ { \prime } P \times d s - a . e . \phantom { } \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued. Suppose that there exists $\delta \in ( 0 , \infty )$ such that $\mathcal { R } - \delta I _ { n }$ is $d P \times d s – a . e . \ \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n } \ – \bar { \upsilon \boldsymbol { a } } l u e d ,$ or such that $\begin{array} { r } { \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { m } \pmb { \sigma } _ { k } \pmb { \sigma } _ { k } - \delta I _ { n } } \end{array}$ is $d P \times d s -$ a.e. $\mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ -valued. Let $( \widehat { \mathcal { V } } , \widehat { \mathcal { Z } } )$ be the unique solution of the Riccati BSDE (B.11) (cf. Proposition B.7). Recall the definition (B.12) of θ and let $( \widehat { \psi } , \widehat { \phi } )$ be the unique solution of the linear BSDE (B.13) (cf. Proposition B.8). Recall the definition (B.15) $o f \widehat { \theta } ^ { 0 }$ .

(i) There exists a unique $\hat { u } ^ { * } \in \mathcal { L } ^ { 2 }$ such that for all $u \in \mathcal { L } ^ { 2 }$ it holds $P { \mathrm { - } } a . s .$ that $\hat { J } ( \hat { u } ^ { * } ) \leq$ $\hat { J } ( u )$ . Moreover, there exists a unique solution $\widehat { \mathcal { H } } ^ { * }$ of the SDE (B.16) (the state process associated to $\hat { \boldsymbol u } ^ { * } \big )$ , and the unique optimal control $\hat { u } ^ { * }$ admits the representation
