# REFERENCES

[1] T.
Coletta and P.
Jacquod, “Performance measures in electric power networks under line contingencies,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
7, no.
1, pp.
221–231, 2020.
[2] H.
Bulat, D.
Frankovic, and S.
Vlahini ´ c, “Enhanced contingency anal- ´ ysis—a power system operator tool,” Energies, vol.
14, no.
4, p.
923, 2021.
[3] M.
M.
Islam, T.
Yu, G.
Giannoccaro, Y.
Mi, M.
La Scala, M.
N.
Rajabi, and J.
Wang, “Improving reliability and stability of the power systems: A comprehensive review on the role of energy storage systems to enhance flexibility,” IEEE Access, 2024.
[4] G.-D.
Sim, H.-S.
Im, J.-H.
Choi, S.-J.
Ahn, and S.-Y.
Yun, “Detection and location of open conductor faults for power distribution networks using a contingency analysis approach,” IEEE Access, 2024.
[5] L.
Che, X.
Liu, Y.
Wen, and Z.
Li, “Identification of cascading failure initiated by hidden multiple-branch contingency,” IEEE Transactions on Reliability, vol.
68, no.
1, pp.
149–160, 2019.
[6] A.
Poddubnyy, M.-Q.
Tran, P.
Nguyen, and H.
Slootweg, “Semisupervised state classification in distribution systems with graph neural networks,” in Energy Informatics Academy Conference, pp.
266–276, Springer, 2024.
[7] F.
Aminifar, S.
Teimourzadeh, A.
Shahsavari, M.
Savaghebi, and M.
S.
Golsorkhi, “Machine learning for protection of distribution networks and power electronics-interfaced systems,” The Electricity Journal, vol.
34, no.
1, p.
106886, 2021.
[8] N.
Ehsani, F.
Aminifar, and H.
Mohsenian-Rad, “Convolutional autoencoder anomaly detection and classification based on distribution pmu measurements,” IET Generation, Transmission & Distribution, vol.
16, no.
14, pp.
2816–2828, 2022.
[9] S.
Yuan, L.
Y.
Wang, G.
Yin, and M.
H.
Nazari, “Stochastic hybrid system modeling and state estimation of modern power systems under contingency,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.16568, 2024.
[10] G.
Yin, F.
Lin, M.
P.
Polis, W.
Chen, et al., “Joint estimation of continuous and discrete states in randomly switched linear systems with unobservable subsystems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2022.
[11] S.
Yuan, G.
Yin, M.
H.
Nazari, et al., “Contingency detection in modern power systems: A stochastic hybrid system method,” Sustainable Energy, Grids and Networks, vol.
39, p.
101414, 2024.
[12] E.
M.
Abadi and M.
H.
