# C.3. Cross-effects from the risk term

In this subsection we consider the following subsetting of Section 2.2.

Setting C.10. Let $\xi = 0 , \zeta = 0 \mu = 0 , \sigma = 0$ and choose a deterministic, constant $\Xi \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ . Let $\rho \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ (deterministic, constant) and the orthogonal matrix $O \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ be such that $\rho$ and $\gamma$ commute. Furthermore, assume that d $\neq \gamma ( 0 ) .$ x and let Assumption 4.2 be satisfied.

Note that in Setting C.10 it holds that $\mathcal { Q } \in \mathbb { S } _ { > 0 } ^ { n }$ and that there exists $\delta \in ( 0 , \infty )$ such that $\kappa - \delta I _ { n } = \rho - \delta I _ { n } \in \mathbb { S } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ . In particular, Assumption 4.3 is satisfied in Setting C.10. We thus have that given Setting C.10 the assumptions of Corollary 4.7 are met. Hence, in Setting C.10 we can apply Corollary 4.7 and obtain that there exists a unique optimal strategy in $A ^ { p m }$ for $J ^ { p m }$ . Recall that the optimal strategy is given in terms of the solution of the BSDE (33). We have that there exists a unique solution of the matrix Riccati ordinary differential equation

$$\frac {d Y (s)}{d s} = - \left(\mathcal {Q} - (Y (s) \rho + \mathcal {Q}) (\mathcal {Q} + \rho) ^ {- 1} (\rho Y (s) + \mathcal {Q})\right), \quad s \in [ 0, T ], \quad Y (T) = \frac {1}{2} I _ {n} \tag {C.26}$$

(cf., for example, [55, Corollary 2.10]). Therefore, in Setting C.10 the unique solution of the BSDE (33) is given by $( \mathcal { V } , 0 )$ where ${ \mathcal { V } } \equiv Y$ is the deterministic solution of (C.26).

In the following example we showcase cross-effects of the risk term on the optimal strategy. To this end, we take all other model components in Setting C.10 to be rather simple.

Example C.11. Within Setting C.10, let $n = 2 , d = 0 , x = ( 1 0 0 , 0 ) ^ { \top } , \lambda _ { 1 } ( 0 ) = 1 =$ $\lambda _ { 2 } ( 0 ) , O = I _ { 2 }$ , and $\rho = 3 I _ { 2 }$ . Furthermore, consider the positive definite matrix

$$
\Xi = \left( \begin{array}{c c} 1 & 0. 5 \\ 0. 5 & 1 \end{array} \right). \tag {C.27}
$$
