Kumar, “Cooperative transport of a payload with offset cg using multiple uavs,” in Dynamic systems and control conference, vol.
59162.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 2019, p.
V003T21A008.

[17] H. A. Hashim, A. E. Eltoukhy, and A. Odry, “Observer-based Controller for VTOL-UAVs Tracking using Direct Vision-aided Inertial Navigation Measurements,” ISA transactions, vol. 137, pp. 133–143, 2023.   
[18] H. A. Hashim, “A Geometric Nonlinear Stochastic Filter for Simultaneous Localization and Mapping,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol. 111, p. 106569, 2021.   
[19] J.-J. Xiong and G.-B. Zhang, “Global fast dynamic terminal sliding mode control for a quadrotor uav,” ISA transactions, vol. 66, pp. 233–240, 2017.   
[20] M. Labbadi and et al., “Barrier Function-based Adaptive Nonsingular Fast Terminal Sliding Mode Control for Disturbed UAVs,” in 2022

European Control Conference (ECC). IEEE, 2022, pp. 975–980.   
[21] H. A. Hashim, “Special Orthogonal Group SO(3), Euler Angles, Angleaxis, Rodriguez Vector and Unit-quaternion: Overview, Mapping and Challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.06669, 2019.   
[22] R. Babaie and A. F. Ehyaie, “Robust optimal motion planning approach to cooperative grasping and transporting using multiple uavs based on sdre,” Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control, vol. 39, no. 9, pp. 1391–1408, 2017.   
[23] M. Boukattaya, N. Mezghani, and T. Damak, “Adaptive nonsingular fast terminal sliding-mode control for the tracking problem of uncertain dynamical systems,” ISA transactions, vol. 77, pp. 1–19, 2018.
