# VI. CONCLUSION

In this paper, we presented a bi-level framework for inferring the state feedback cooperative control of NDSs, where the interested components include the nodal dynamics, the topology between nodes, and the feedback control gain. Specifically, only noisy observations on a single trajectory of the NDS are available. At the first level, we utilized the causality of consecutive observations to construct the estimator for the discretized closed-loop system matrix, which was

1Since each node has multiple inputs (m > 1) in this example, we directly use BK to verify the accuracy up to a scalar ambiguity.

proved asymptotically unbiased when the NDS is stable. At the second level, we resorted to the matrix logarithm to recover the continuous-time system from its discrete-time counterpart, and derived the sampling period condition and the recovery error the bound. Following this, we developed least squares based procedures to decouple the components. Furthermore, we demonstrated how to reconstruct the LQ objective function that governs the control, providing the necessary conditions of the corresponding parameters. Finally, numerical simulations illustrated the effectiveness of the proposed method.

The investigation of this paper provides new insights to reveal the underlying mechanism of NDSs, and can pave the way for more promising directions, such as i) extending the method to a general heterogeneous NDS model, and ii) considering broader cooperative scenarios.
