# REFERENCES

[1] L. Besnard, Y. B. Shtessel, and B. Landrum, “Quadrotor vehicle control via sliding mode controller driven by sliding mode disturbance observer,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 349, no. 2, pp. 658–684, 2012.   
[2] B. Han, Y. Zhou, K. K. Deveerasetty, and C. Hu, “A review of control algorithms for quadrotor,” in 2018 IEEE international conference on information and automation (ICIA). IEEE, 2018, pp. 951–956.   
[3] R. Amin, L. Aijun, and S. Shamshirband, “A review of quadrotor uav: control methodologies and performance evaluation,” International Journal of Automation and Control, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 87–103, 2016.   
[4] H. X. Pham, H. M. La, D. Feil-Seifer, and L. V. Nguyen, “Autonomous uav navigation using reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.05086, 2018.   
[5] O. Bouaiss, R. Mechgoug, and R. Ajgou, “Modeling, control and simulation of quadrotor uav,” in 2020 1st International Conference on Communications, Control Systems and Signal Processing (CCSSP). IEEE, 2020, pp. 340–345.   
[6] A. S. Elkhatem and S. N. Engin, “Robust lqr and lqr-pi control strategies based on adaptive weighting matrix selection for a uav position and attitude tracking control,” Alexandria Engineering Journal, vol. 61, no. 8, pp. 6275–6292, 2022.   
[7] F. Rinaldi, S. Chiesa, and F. Quagliotti, “Linear quadratic control for quadrotors uavs dynamics and formation flight,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol. 70, pp. 203–220, 2013.   
[8] O. A. Hay, M. Chehadeh, A. Ayyad, M. Wahbah, M. A. Humais, I. Boiko, L. Seneviratne, and Y. Zweiri, “Noise-tolerant identification and tuning approach using deep neural networks for visual servoing applications,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2023.   
[9] V. Sadhu, K. Anjum, and D. Pompili, “On-board deep-learning-based unmanned aerial vehicle fault cause detection and classification via fpgas,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2023.   
[10] W. Koch, R. Mancuso, R. West, and A. Bestavros, “Reinforcement learning for uav attitude control,” ACM Transactions on Cyber-Physical Systems, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 1–21, 2019.
