# V. EXPERIMENTS

To demonstrate our approach, we consider position control of quadcopters in simulation. We use a standard quadcopter kinetic model with 13 states (position, velocity, quaternions, angular velocity). We disturb the velocities with uniformly distributed noise. The quadcopters need to fly to a target position and stay there. They fly in distinct spaces, i.e., we do not consider collision avoidance. Our MPC uses a horizon of $T \ = \ 2 5$ and a sampling time of 0.1s. The exact hyperparameters together with the entire code can be found in https://github.com/ Data-Science-in-Mechanical-Engineering/ event-triggered-robust-mpc.

Figure 2 visualizes the behavior of our ET-MPC controlling $M _ { \mathrm { s } } ~ = ~ 3$ quadcopters with $M _ { \mathrm { c } } ~ = ~ 1$ . We set the first quadcopter’s disturbance to have twice the amplitude than the other quadcopters. The ET-MPC stabilizes all quadcopters despite disturbances while selecting only one quadcopter

$$
\begin{array}{l} l (\tilde {x} (k | t + T), \tilde {u} (k | t + T)) := | | \tilde {x} (k | t + T) | | _ {\mathrm{Q}} ^ {2} + | | \tilde {u} (k | t + T) | | _ {\mathrm{R}} ^ {2} \\ \leq l \left(x ^ {*} (k + T | t), u ^ {*} (k + T | t)\right) + | | Q | | _ {2} | | \tilde {x} (k | t + T) - x ^ {*} (k + T | t) | | ^ {2} + | | R | | _ {2} | | \tilde {u} (k | t + T) - u ^ {*} (k + T | t) | | ^ {2} \\ + 2 \sqrt {| | Q | | _ {2}} | | \tilde {x} (k | t + T) - x ^ {*} (k + T | t) | | | | x ^ {*} (k + T | t) | | _ {\mathrm{Q}} + 2 \sqrt {| | R | | _ {2}} | | \tilde {u} (k | t + T) - u ^ {*} (k + T | t) | | | | u ^ {*} (k + T | t) | | _ {\mathrm{R}} \\ \leq l (x ^ {*} (k + T | t), u ^ {*} (k + T | t)) + \alpha_ {1} (\left| \left| w _ {\mathrm{art}} (T | t) \right| \right|) \tag {42} \\ \end{array}
\left| \left| x (N | t + T) \right| \right| _ {\mathrm{P}} ^ {2} = \left| \left| \tilde {x} (N | t + T) - x ^ {*} (N + T | t) + x ^ {*} (N + T | t) \right| \right| _ {\mathrm{P}} ^ {2}\leq | | x ^ {*} (N + T | t) | | _ {\mathrm{P}} ^ {2} + | | \tilde {x} (N | t + T) - x ^ {*} (N + T | t) | | _ {\mathrm{P}} ^ {2} + 2 | | \tilde {x} (N | t + T) - x ^ {*} (N + T | t) | | _ {\mathrm{P}} | | x ^ {*} (N + T | t) | | _ {\mathrm{P}}\leq \left| \left| x ^ {*} (N + T | t) \right| \right| _ {\mathrm{P}} ^ {2} + \left| \left| P \right| \right| _ {2} \rho^ {N} \left| \left| w _ {\text {art}} (T | t) \right| \right| ^ {2} + 2 \sqrt {\left| \left| P \right| \right| _ {2} \rho^ {N}} \left| \left| w _ {\text {art}} (T | t) \right| \right| ^ {2} \alpha_ {\mathrm{f}} \tag {43}$$
