[6] F.
Dörfler, P.
Tesi, and C.
De Persis, “On the certainty-equivalence approach to direct data-driven LQR design,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
68, no.
12, pp.
7989–7996, 2023.
[7] J.
Berberich, A.
Koch, C.
W.
Scherer, and F.
Allgöwer, “Robust datadriven state-feedback design,” in Amer.
Control Conf., 2020, pp.
1532– 1538.
[8] H.
J.
van Waarde, C.
De Persis, M.
K.
Camlibel, and P.
Tesi, “Willems’ fundamental lemma for state-space systems and its extension to multiple datasets,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
4, no.
3, pp.
602–607, 2020.
[9] J.
Coulson, J.
Lygeros, and F.
Dörfler, “Data-enabled predictive control: In the shallows of the DeePC,” in Eur.
Control Conf., 2019, pp.
307–312.
[10] J.
Berberich, J.
Köhler, M.
A.
Müller, and F.
Allgöwer, “Data-driven model predictive control with stability and robustness guarantees,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
66, no.
4, 2021.
[11] C.
Verhoek, R.
Tóth, S.
Haesaert, and A.
Koch, “Fundamental lemma for data-driven analysis of linear parameter-varying systems,” in 60th IEEE Conf.
Decis.
Control, 2021, pp.
5040–5046.
[12] P.
Schmitz, T.
Faulwasser, and K.
Worthmann, “Willems’ fundamental lemma for linear descriptor systems and its use for data-driven outputfeedback MPC,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
6, pp.
2443–2448, 2022.
[13] T.
Faulwasser, R.
Ou, G.
Pan, P.
Schmitz, and K.
Worthmann, “Behavioral theory for stochastic systems?
A data-driven journey from Willems to Wiener and back again,” Annu.
Rev.
Control, vol.
55, pp.
92–117, 2023.
[14] G.
Pan, R.
Ou, and T.
Faulwasser, “On a stochastic fundamental lemma and its use for data-driven optimal control,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, 2022.
[15] R.
Rapisarda, M.
K.
Çamlibel, and H.
J.
van Waarde, “A “fundamental lemma” for continuous-time systems, with applications to data-driven simulation,” Syst.
Control Lett., vol.
179, p.
105603, 2023.
[16] J.
Berberich and F.
Allgöwer, “A trajectory-based framework for datadriven system analysis and control,” in Eur.
Control Conf., 2020, pp.
1365–1370.
[17] O.
Molodchyk and T.
Faulwasser, “Exploring the links between the fundamental lemma and kernel regression,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
8, pp.
2045–2050, 2024.
[18] T.
J.
Meijer, S.
A.
N.
Nouwens, K.
J.
A.
Scheres, V.
S.
Dolk, and W.
P.
M.
H.
Heemels, “Frequency-domain data-driven predictive control,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
58, no.
18, pp.
86–91, 2024.
[19] M.
Ferizbegovic, H.
Hjalmarsson, P.
