# V. CONCLUSION

We presented a modular longitudinal control system for autonomous vehicles with combustion engines. The approach translates high-level commands of a trajectory- or pathtracking controller into brake pressure, throttle, and gear commands. We showed that the controller can track longitudinal accelerations in highly dynamic scenarios. We demonstrated close tracking of the acceleration target for a deceleration situation. This was achieved by considering the engine’s drag torque and driving resistance in the controller. However, in long-stretched acceleration situations, the controller struggles to regulate acceleration errors precisely. The introduced feedback controllers cannot fully compensate for the turbocharged engine’s high momentum. In future work, we will introduce an additional data-based feedforward controller to represent these dynamic motor effects.

Additionally, we introduced a brake temperature controller, predictive gear shift algorithm, ABS, and TC to maximize safety in all situations during real-world experiments. We demonstrated that our predictive gear shift concept can avoid gear shifts in situations with high lateral accelerations while choosing the correct gear for maximum acceleration at the turn exit. Furthermore, we showed that the ABS can prevent the wheels from locking and ensures the vehicle’s steerability during braking maneuvers. This guarantees the safety of the vehicle even for varying tire-road friction.

In future work, we want to extend the longitudinal control system with an electronic stability program. This additional module enables us to ensure the safety of the vehicle in oversteer situations when it starts to spin.
