# REFERENCES

[1] K.-K.
Oh, M.-C.
Park, and H.-S.
Ahn, “A survey of multi-agent formation control,” Automatica, vol.
53, pp.
424–440, 2015.
[2] D.
Deka, V.
Kekatos, and G.
Cavraro, “Learning distribution grid topologies: A tutorial,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol.
15, no.
1, pp.
999–1013, 2024.
[3] X.
He, L.
Caciagli, L.
Parkes, J.
Stiso, T.
M.
Karrer, J.
Z.
Kim, Z.
Lu, T.
Menara, F.
Pasqualetti, M.
R.
Sperling, J.
I.
Tracy, and D.
S.
Bassett, “Uncovering the biological basis of control energy: Structural and metabolic correlates of energy inefficiency in temporal lobe epilepsy,” Science Advances, vol.
8, no.
45, p.
eabn2293, 2022.
[4] P.
Tajvar, R.
Forlin, P.
Brodin, and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “Modelling pathogen response of the human immune system in a reduced state space,” in 2023 62nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2023, pp.
715–720.
[5] T.-T.
Gao and G.
Yan, “Data-driven inference of complex system dynamics: A mini-review,” Europhysics Letters, vol.
142, no.
1, p.
11001, 2023.
[6] H.
J.
van Waarde, P.
Tesi, and M.
K.
Camlibel, “Topology identification of heterogeneous networks: Identifiability and reconstruction,” Automatica, vol.
123, p.
109331, 2021.
[7] Y.
Li, T.
Xu, J.
He, C.
Chen, and X.
Guan, “Inferring statefeedback cooperative control of networked dynamical systems,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
56, no.
2, pp.
8381–8386, 2023, 22nd IFAC World Congress.
[8] L.
Ljung, “System identification,” in Signal Analysis and Prediction.
Springer, 1998, pp.
163–173.
[9] M.
Simchowitz, H.
Mania, S.
Tu, M.
I.
Jordan, and B.
Recht, “Learning without mixing: Towards a sharp analysis of linear system identification,” in Proceedings of the 31st Conference On Learning Theory.
PMLR, 2018, pp.
439–473.
[10] T.
Sarkar and A.
Rakhlin, “Near optimal finite time identification of arbitrary linear dynamical systems,” in International Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2019, pp.
5610–5618.
[11] Y.
Zheng and N.
Li, “Non-asymptotic identification of linear dynamical systems using multiple trajectories,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
5, no.
5, pp.
1693–1698, 2021.
[12] Y.
Jedra and A.
Proutiere, “Finite-time identification of linear systems: Fundamental limits and optimal algorithms,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
5, pp.
2805–2820, 2023.
[13] I.
Ziemann, A.
Tsiamis, B.
Lee, Y.
Jedra, N.
Matni, and G.
J.
