Cherkaoui, “Robust adaptive nonsingular fast terminal sliding-mode tracking control for an uncertain quadrotor uav subjected to disturbances,” ISA transactions, vol.
99, pp.
290–304, 2020.
[24] S.
Lian, W.
Meng, Z.
Lin, K.
Shao, J.
Zheng, H.
Li, and R.
Lu, “Adaptive attitude control of a quadrotor using fast nonsingular terminal sliding mode,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol.
69, no.
2, pp.
1597–1607, 2021.
[25] C.
Hajiyev and H.
E.
Soken, “Robust adaptive kalman filter for estimation of uav dynamics in the presence of sensor/actuator faults,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
28, no.
1, pp.
376–383, 2013.
[26] S.
Hussain and F.
M.
Malik, “Extended-order high-gain observer-based feedback control law for tracking the longitudinal dynamics of a mini uav,” Journal of Control, Automation and Electrical Systems, vol.
31, no.
1, pp.
10–20, 2020.
[27] C.
J.
Boss, V.
Srivastava, and H.
K.
Khalil, “Robust tracking of an unknown trajectory with a multi-rotor uav: A high-gain observer approach,” in 2020 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
1429–1434.
[28] G.
Qi, X.
Li, and Z.
Chen, “Problems of extended state observer and proposal of compensation function observer for unknown model and application in uav,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
52, no.
5, pp.
2899–2910, 2021.
[29] M.
R.
Mokhtari, A.
C.
Braham, and B.
Cherki, “Extended state observer based control for coaxial-rotor uav,” ISA transactions, vol.
61, pp.
1–14, 2016.
[30] H.
B.
Khamseh, S.
Ghorbani, and F.
Janabi-Sharifi, “Unscented kalman filter state estimation for manipulating unmanned aerial vehicles,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol.
92, pp.
446–463, 2019.
[31] H.
G.
De Marina, F.
J.
Pereda, J.
M.
Giron-Sierra, and F.
Espinosa, “Uav attitude estimation using unscented kalman filter and triad,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol.
59, no.
11, pp.
4465–4474, 2011.
[32] G.
G.
Rigatos, “Nonlinear kalman filters and particle filters for integrated navigation of unmanned aerial vehicles,” Robotics and Autonomous Systems, vol.
60, no.
7, pp.
978–995, 2012.
[33] A.
G.
Kallapur, S.
S.
Ali, and S.
G.
Anavatti, “Application of extended kalman filter towards uav identification,” in Autonomous Robots and Agents.
Springer, 2007, pp.
199–207.
