[11] C.
Wang, J.
Wang, Y.
Shen, and X.
Zhang, “Autonomous navigation of uavs in large-scale complex environments: A deep reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol.
68, no.
3, pp.
2124–2136, 2019.
[12] H.
Muller, V.
Niculescu, T.
Polonelli, M.
Magno, and L.
Benini, ¨ “Robust and efficient depth-based obstacle avoidance for autonomous miniaturized uavs,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2023.
[13] J.
Zhang, D.
Gu, C.
Deng, and B.
Wen, “Robust and adaptive backstepping control for hexacopter uavs,” Ieee Access, vol.
7, pp.
163 502– 163 514, 2019.
[14] N.
Koksal, H.
An, and B.
Fidan, “Backstepping-based adaptive control of a quadrotor uav with guaranteed tracking performance,” ISA transactions, vol.
105, pp.
98–110, 2020.
[15] E.-H.
Zheng, J.-J.
Xiong, and J.-L.
Luo, “Second order sliding mode control for a quadrotor uav,” ISA transactions, vol.
53, no.
4, pp.
1350– 1356, 2014.
[16] X.
Shao, G.
Sun, W.
Yao, J.
Liu, and L.
Wu, “Adaptive sliding mode control for quadrotor uavs with input saturation,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol.
27, no.
3, pp.
1498–1509, 2021.
[17] A.
Ma’Arif, W.
Rahmaniar, M.
A.
M.
Vera, A.
A.
Nuryono, R.
Majdoubi, and A.
C¸ akan, “Artificial potential field algorithm for obstacle avoidance in uav quadrotor for dynamic environment,” in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Communication, Networks and Satellite (COMNETSAT).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
184–189.
[18] A.
C.
Woods and H.
M.
La, “A novel potential field controller for use on aerial robots,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
49, no.
4, pp.
665–676, 2017.
[19] K.
Zhang, Y.
Shi, and H.
Sheng, “Robust nonlinear model predictive control based visual servoing of quadrotor uavs,” IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, vol.
26, no.
2, pp.
700–708, 2021.
[20] L.
Cavanini, G.
Ippoliti, and E.
F.
Camacho, “Model predictive control for a linear parameter varying model of an uav,” Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
101, no.
3, p.
57, 2021.
[21] A.
Didier, A.
Parsi, J.
Coulson, and R.
S.
Smith, “Robust adaptive model predictive control of quadrotors,” in 2021 European Control Conference (ECC).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
657–662.
[22] O.
Mofid and S.
Mobayen, “Adaptive sliding mode control for finitetime stability of quad-rotor uavs with parametric uncertainties,” ISA transactions, vol.
72, pp.
1–14, 2018.
[23] M.
Labbadi and M.
