# REFERENCES

[1] A. A. Yevtushenko, P. Grzes, and A. Adamowicz, “The temperature mode of the carbon-carbon multi-disc brake in the view of the interrelations of its operating characteristics,” Materials, vol. 13, 4 2020.   
[2] S. Goltz and O. Sawodny, “Simplified disc brake modeling, identifi- ¨ cation, and validation focusing on temperature influences,” in IECON 2020 The 46th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, 2020, pp. 2063–2068.   
[3] D. Woodward and P. Millar, “Lateral and longitudinal grip variation,” in 7th Symposium on Pavement Surface Characteristics, 2012.   
[4] C. J. Waddell, “The grip of motorsport surfaces,” Ph.D. dissertation, Ulster University, 2019.   
[5] A. Lefebvre and S. Guilain, “Modelling and measurement of the transient response of a turbocharged si engine,” SAE, Tech. Rep. 2005- 01-0691, 2005.   
[6] S. Pedone and A. Fagiolini, “Racecar longitudinal control in unknown and highly-varying driving conditions,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 69, pp. 12 521–12 535, 11 2020.   
[7] J. Ni, J. Hu, and C. Xiang, “Robust path following control at driving/handling limits of an autonomous electric racecar,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 68, pp. 5518–5526, 6 2019.   
[8] V. A. Laurense and J. C. Gerdes, “Speed control for robust pathtracking for automated vehicles at the tire-road friction limit,” in Proc. AVEC 14th Int. Symp. Adv. Veh. Control, 2018, pp. 1–8.   
[9] J. L. Vazquez, M. Br ´ uhlmeier, A. Liniger, A. Rupenyan, and ¨ J. Lygeros, “Optimization-based hierarchical motion planning for autonomous racing,” in 2020 IEEE/RSJ international conference on intelligent robots and systems (IROS). IEEE, 2020, pp. 2397–2403.   
[10] B. Wohner, F. Sevilla, B. Grueter, J. Diepolder, R. Afonso, and F. Holzapfel, “Hierarchical nonlinear model predictive control for an autonomous racecar,” in 2021 20th International Conference on Advanced Robotics (ICAR). IEEE, 12 2021, pp. 113–120.   
[11] D. Kalaria, Q. Lin, and J. M. Dolan, “Delay-aware robust control for safe autonomous driving and racing,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 25, pp. 7140–7150, 2024.
