Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH, 2024, pp.
8–14.
[22] A.
Wischnewski, T.
Herrmann, F.
Werner, and B.
Lohmann, “A tubempc approach to autonomous multi-vehicle racing on high-speed ovals,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol.
8, pp.
368–378, 1 2023.
[23] C.
C.
Chung, A.
Finazzi, H.
Seong, D.
Lee, S.
Lee, B.
Kim, G.
Gang, and D.
H.
Shim, “System for head-to-head race: Design, implementation and analysis;
team kaist at the indy autonomous challenge,” IEEE Transactions on Field Robotics, 11 2024.
[24] V.
Sukhil and M.
Behl, “Adaptive lookahead pure-pursuit for autonomous racing,” 11 2021.
[Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/ abs/2111.08873   
[25] J.
Segers, Analysis Techniques for Racecar Data Acquisition - Second Edition.
Warrendale, PA: SAE International, Feb.
2014.
[Online].
Available: https://saemobilus.sae.org/content/R-408/   
[26] M.
Rowold, L.
Ogretmen, U.
Kasolowsky, and B.
Lohmann, “Online ¨ time-optimal trajectory planning on three-dimensional race tracks,” in 2023 IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
1–8.
[27] R.
Allen, H.
T.
Szostak, D.
H.
Klyde, T.
J.
Rosenthal, and K.
J.
Owens, Vehicle Dynamic Stability and Rollover.
Washington, D.C.: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1992.
[28] H.
B.
Pacejka, “Tire Characteristics and Vehicle Handling and Stability,” in Tire and Vehicle Dynamics.
Elsevier, 2012, pp.
1–58.
[29] S.
Sagmeister, P.
Kounatidis, S.
Goblirsch, and M.
Lienkamp, “Analyzing the Impact of Simulation Fidelity on the Evaluation of Autonomous Driving Motion Control,” in 2024 IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV).
Jeju Island, Korea, Republic of: IEEE, Jun.
2024, pp.
230–237.
