[17] W.
Liu, J.
Sun, G.
Wang, F.
Bullo, and J.
Chen, “Data-driven resilient predictive control under denial-of-service,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
8, pp.
4722–4737, 2023.
[18] J.
Yu, D.
Ho, and A.
Wierman, “Online adversarial stabilization of unknown networked systems,” Proceedings of the ACM on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems, vol.
7, no.
1, pp.
1–43, 2023.
[19] N.
Ab Azar, A.
Shahmansoorian, and M.
Davoudi, “From inverse optimal control to inverse reinforcement learning: A historical review,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
50, pp.
119–138, 2020.
[20] R.
E.
Kalman, “When Is a Linear Control System Optimal?” Journal of Basic Engineering, vol.
86, no.
1, pp.
51–60, 1964.
[21] M.
C.
Priess, R.
Conway, J.
Choi, J.
M.
Popovich, and C.
Radcliffe, “Solutions to the inverse LQR problem with application to biological systems analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
23, no.
2, pp.
770–777, 2015.
[22] M.
Menner and M.
N.
Zeilinger, “Maximum likelihood methods for inverse learning of optimal controllers,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
53, no.
2, pp.
5266–5272, 2020.
[23] W.
Jin, D.
Kulic, S.
Mou, and S.
Hirche, “Inverse optimal control ´ from incomplete trajectory observations,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol.
40, no.
6-7, pp.
848–865, 2021.
[24] H.
Zhang, J.
Umenberger, and X.
Hu, “Inverse optimal control for discrete-time finite-horizon linear quadratic regulators,” Automatica, vol.
110, p.
108593, 2019.
[25] Y.
Li, Y.
Yao, and X.
Hu, “Continuous-time inverse quadratic optimal control problem,” Automatica, vol.
117, p.
108977, 2020.
[26] C.
Yu, Y.
Li, H.
Fang, and J.
Chen, “System identification approach for inverse optimal control of finite-horizon linear quadratic regulators,” Automatica, vol.
129, p.
109636, 2021.
[27] H.
Zhang and A.
Ringh, “Statistically consistent inverse optimal control for discrete-time indefinite linear–quadratic systems,” Automatica, vol.
166, p.
111705, 2024.
[28] C.
Qu, J.
He, and X.
Duan, “Control law learning based on LQR reconstruction with inverse optimal control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, to appear, 2024.
[29] G.
Mateos, S.
Segarra, A.
G.
Marques, and A.
Ribeiro, “Connecting the dots: Identifying network structure via graph signal processing,” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol.
36, no.
3, pp.
16–43, 2019.
[30] B.
Zaman, L.
M.
L.
Ramos, D.
Romero, and B.
