In the following, we present the results of the proposed optimization based method. To begin with, we examine how the sampling period τ will influence the inference error of the discretized and continuous-time closed-loop matrices $A _ { d }$ and $A _ { c } ,$ respectively. In Fig. 2, results of both noise-free and noisy situations are plotted. In the noisy case, the noise standard deviation is set as $\mathrm { G _ { 2 } }$ and the curve value is computed by the average of 10 random tests. The upper subfigure in Fig. 2 depicts the errors of $\widehat { A } _ { d } .$ , and it is evident that the inference error will increase as τ becomes larger. This trend aligns with our intuition, because given a fix time slot, a smaller sampling period brings more available observations, which is beneficial for inference. The bottom subfigure illustrates the error of $\widehat { A } _ { c } ,$ which is based on the logarithm of $\widehat { A } _ { d } .$ In this test, the errors remain generally stable especially for the noise-free case. We observe that this is mainly because given finite observations, the error of $\hat { A _ { d } }$ has not exhibited asymptotic convergence yet. According to the construction formula $\begin{array} { r } { \frac { 1 } { \tau } \sum _ { k = 1 } ^ { \infty } ( - 1 ) ^ { k + 1 } \frac { ( \widehat { A } _ { d } - I ) ^ { k } } { k } } \end{array}$ , both the denominator and the numerator terms will decrease as $\tau$ decreases, resulting in a nearly stable tendency in the plots.
