[9] A.
Bemporad, ”Reference governor for constrained nonlinear systems”, IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
43, no.
3, pp.
415-419, 1998.
[10] Y.
J.
Liu and S.
C.
Tong, ”Barrier Lyapunov Functions-based adaptive control for a class of nonlinear pure-feedback systems with full state constraints”, Automatica, vol.
64, pp.
70-75, 2016.
[11] A.
Polyakov, D.
Efimov and W.
Perruquetti, ”Finite-time and fixedtime stabilization: Implicit Lyapunov function approach”, Automatica, vol.
51, pp.
332-340, 2015.
[12] Z.
Y.
Zuo, Q.
L.
Han, B.
Ning, X.
H.
Ge and X.
M.
Zhang, ”An Overview of Recent Advances in Fixed-Time Cooperative Control of Multiagent Systems”, IEEE Trans.
Ind.
Inform., vol.
14, no.
6, pp.
2322- 2334, 2018.
[13] R.
Aldana-Lopez, D.
Gomez-Gutierrez, E.
Jimenez-Rodriguez, J.
D.
Sanchez-Torres and M.
Defoort, ”Enhancing the settling time estimation of a class of fixed-time stable systems”, Int.
J.
Robust Nonlinear Control, vol.
29, no.
12, pp.
4135-4148, Aug.
2019.
[14] Y.
Liu, H.
Li, Z.
Zuo, X.
Li and R.
Lu, ”An Overview of Finite/Fixed-Time Control and its Application in Engineering Systems”, IEEE-CAA J.
Autom.
Sinica, 2022.
[15] W.
P.
M.
H.
Heemels, K.
H.
Johansson and P.
Tabuada, ”An introduction to event-triggered and self-triggered control”, 2012 IEEE 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2012.
[16] C.
I.
Byrnes and A.
Isidori, ”New results and examples in nonlinear feedback stabilization”, Systems and Control Letters, vol.
12, no.
5, pp.
437-442, 1989.
[17] W.
P.
M.
H.
Heemels, J.
H.
Sandee and P.
P.
J.
Van den Bosch, ”Analysis of event-driven controllers for linear systems”, Internaional Journal of Control, vol.
81, no.
4, pp.
571-590, 2008.
[18] A.
Anta and P.
Tabuada, ”To Sample or not to Sample: Self-Triggered Control for Nonlinear Systems”, IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
55, no.
9, pp.
2030-2042, 2010.
[19] Z.
Wang, Y, Gao, A.
I.
Rikos, N.
Pang, and Y.
Ji, ”Fixed-Relative-Switched Threshold Strategies for Consensus Tracking Control of Nonlinear Multiagent Systems,” the 19th IEEE International Conference on Control & Automation, 2025.
[20] G.
Zhang, X.
Wang, Z.
Wang, and N.
Pang, ”Optimized backstepping tracking control using reinforcement learning for strict-feedback nonlinear systems with monotone tube performance boundaries,” International Journal of Control, pp.
1–13, 2025.
[21] K.
Zhou, Z.
Wang, Z.
Chen, and X.
