# 6.4.4 Results

Table 9 shows a summary of the results. For each row of Table 9 we show the respective system along with the number of variables, the number of locations and the number of transitions respectively. For instance, ”Glycemic Control I (11 - 6 - 10)” represents the Glycemic Control I model that comprises 11 variables, 6 locations and 10 transitions. Furthermore, we depict the stage along with its respective number of endogenous variables and the mean time for the causality assessment. We would like to note that the time reported is the maximum time taken to analyse the system. We do not stop the search when a cause is found, even though there is only one cause by the experiment design.

The algorithm’s time complexity seems to increase not linearly with the number of selected endogenous variables but linearly with the number of variables and locations in the automaton. The time reported in Table 9 is displayed in minutes and considers both the search and simulation times. For statistical significance, each time reported is computed as an average of 5 executions. In each of these five executions, the selected endogenous variables (”End. Vars.”) remain the same.

We use the Glycemic Control model to study the effects of increasing locations and transitions but keeping the total number of variables constant. For each variation (I through IV), the results indicate a linear growth in the time taken, due to the increase in operations contained within each added location. For instance, we double the number of locations from 6 to 12 (in Glycemic Control I and Glycemic Control III, respectively) but the time taken to search and assess causality does not double but increases steadily. However, when doubling the number of selected endogenous variables (from 4 to 8), the time taken increases considerably. See, for instance, Glycemic Control I, where the mean time goes from 6.7 minutes to 18.2 minutes.

Table 9: Benchmark results.
