# 4.2 State-space Neural Network based D-NMPC

State-space neural network (SSNN) is a type of RNN architecture proposed for modeling discrete-time nonlinear systems in state-space form [25, 26, 27]. In general, SSNNs are data-driven models trained using the input-output data generated by systems with nonlinear dynamics. In SSNNs, the model of the system: f and h in Eq. (26) is considered to be unknown. The available information consists of the training input and output as in Eq. (33). Then in SSNNs, the objective is to find an approximation to the nonlinear system in Eq. (26) where the state and output functions are approximated by NNs:

$$
\begin{array}{r l} \mathbf {x} _ {k + 1} & = \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k}; \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}}) = \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}, \mathbf {u} _ {k}) \\ \hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k} & = \mathbf {h} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}; \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {h}}) = \mathbf {h} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {x} _ {k}) \end{array} \tag {75}
$$

where $\mathbf { x } _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { l }$ is the predicted state, $\hat { \mathbf { y } } _ { k } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the predicted output, $\mathbf { f } _ { \mathrm { N N } } : \mathbb { R } ^ { l } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { m }  \mathbb { R } ^ { l }$ is the state NN, $\mathbf { h } _ { \mathrm { N N } } : \mathbb { R } ^ { l }  \mathbb { R } ^ { p }$ is the output NN, and $\theta _ { \mathbf { f } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { f } }$ , and $\mathbf { \hat { \theta } _ { h } } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n _ { h } }$ contains the parameters (weights and biases) of the state and output NNs, respectively. In the initial versions of SSNN [25, 26, 27], the actual order of the system is assumed to be known, and the order of SSNN is chosen as the system order: $l = n$ . However, in general, the order of the system is unknown, and the SSNN order can be different from the actual system order. That’s why the notation $\mathbf { x } _ { k }$ is used to denote the predicted state with SSNN instead of $\hat { \mathbf { x } } _ { k }$ . Fig. 6(b) shows a schematic representation of SSNN. The state and output NNs can be represented as composite functions:
