The filtered oscillator model is used to assess the growth in the number of total variables in the system whilst the number of discrete locations and transitions remain the same. Similarly to the Glycemic Control model, a growth in the number of variables (and, with it, the number of operations) increases the search time linearly. For instance, when the number of selected endogenous variables remain the same, we notice only a modest increase in the amount of time taken when our strategy is applied to Filtered Oscillator II (10 system variables) compared to Filtered Oscillator III (18 system variables).

The findings obtained by analysing the previous models, can also be observed with the tank system. This time, both the total number of variables and the number of locations and transitions are increased and the time taken increases linearly if the number of selected endogenous variables remains the same. The tank system can be used to analyse all three metrics of this benchmark.

The observations of this experiment indicate that increasing the complexity of the subject systems increases the time taken linearly. However, increasing the number of selected endogenous variables has a much greater impact on the overall efficiency of the strategy. Thus, we refute hypothesis $H _ { A 0 }$ , however we accept hypotheses $H _ { B 0 }$ and $H _ { C 0 }$ .

Finally, we consider how Halpern has calculated the complexity of determining causality as an NP-complete problem in terms of complexity[37]. Note that, in Halpern’s calculations, the number of exogenous variables does not play a role in the complexity as they are all grouped into the context (u). What plays a role is the number of variables in the cause and the number of endogenous variables (particularly the size of the sets X, W, and Z - all subsets of the endogenous set). Thus, even though we have observed linear growth in some circumstances, this was only observed when the overall size of the system increased but the number of endogenous variables remained the same (i.e., the additional variables were all added to the set of exogenous ones). When the number of endogenous variables increases, then the time increases non-linearly. Moreover, we emphasise the limitations regarding the choice of endogenous variables and the maximum number of variables in a cause that were applied to our strategy in order to achieve these numbers.
