$$L _ {y \mathrm{SSNN}} = \sum_ {k = 1} ^ {\mathrm{D}} \| \mathbf {y} _ {k} - \hat {\mathbf {y}} _ {k} \| ^ {2} = \| \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \hat {\mathbf {Y}} _ {\mathrm{D}} \| _ {F} ^ {2} = \| \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{yp}} (\mathbf {x} _ {0}, \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}}, \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {g}}) \| _ {F} ^ {2}. \tag {78}$$

Let $\theta = \left[ \theta _ { \mathrm { f } } \right]$ contains the parameters for the state and output NNs. This gives the training problem for SSNN as:

$$\min _ {\boldsymbol {\theta}} L _ {y _ {\mathrm{SSNN}}}. \tag {79}$$

The solution for the above optimization problem gives the optimal parameters for $\mathbf { f } _ { \mathrm { N N } }$ and ${ \bf h } _ { \mathrm { N N } }$ . The SSNN model constructed using the identified parameters from Eq. (??) can be used for implementing either output based or state based NMPC schemes. Next, we discuss a D-NMPC scheme that uses a state-space model identified with SSNN for control scheme design. The SSNN model is used for computing the predicted output or state over the prediction horizon. The control sequence is computed to minimize a function of the output/state prediction error. Here we are considering a state-based NMPC for which the state and control reference $\mathbf { x } _ { \mathrm { r } } , \mathbf { u } _ { \mathrm { r } }$ are obtained by solving the steadystate equation:

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{l} \mathbf {y} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {h} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}}; \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {h}} ^ {*}) \\ \mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}} - \mathbf {f} _ {\mathrm{NN}} (\mathbf {x} _ {\mathrm{r}}, \mathbf {u} _ {\mathrm{r}}; \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}} ^ {*}) \end{array} \right] = \mathbf {0}. \tag {80}
$$

The cost function for state-based NMPC is chosen as in $\operatorname { E q . }$ . (22). Predicted state and output sequence are defined as in Eq. (27) where f , h are replaced with $\mathbf { f } _ { \mathrm { N N } }$ , hNN, respectively. The first element of $\mathbf { U } _ { k } ^ { * }$ which is ${ \mathbf { u } } _ { k | k } ^ { * }$ is applied to the system at each instant. The algorithm for state-based NMPC using SSNN is given below:

Algorithm 6 : SSNN-based D-NMPC   
1: Require $U_{D}$ and $Y_{D}$ 2: Select $L_{f}, n_{1}, \ldots, n_{L_{f}}$ and $L_{h}, p_{1}, \ldots, p_{L_{h}}$ 3: Initialize $\theta$ 4: Compute $\theta^{*}$ by solving Eq. (79)
5: Select N, $y_{r}$ , $Q_{x}$ , $R_{u}$ . Construct $Q_{X}$ and $R_{U}$ as in Eq. (13)
6: Compute $x_{r}$ and $u_{r}$ by solving Eq. (80). Compute $X_{r}$ using $x_{r}$ and $U_{r}$ using $u_{r}$ 7: Initialize $U_{k}$ 8: for k = 0 to $N_{T} - 1$ do
9: Compute $U_{k}^{*}$ by solving Eq. (32)
10: Apply $u_{k|k} = U_{k(1:m)}^{*}$ to the system
11: end for
