# 4 Discussion and Concluding Remarks

DT applications span across different sectors, with a heavy focus on industrial manufacturing, related to pump, engine and battery production [16]. Architectural patterns for PT-DT integration have been explored in various contexts, including [9] and [17], providing a foundation for these applications. DTs can offer a wide range of services, such as detecting failures through real-time monitoring, or degradation monitoring, thus learning about the life-cycle of different components [16], e.g., in battery life-cycle management [5]. More advanced functionalities such as failure anticipation or more generally prediction [14] are also of interest, as well as predictive maintenance which aims to estimate when certain parts of the PT should be changed/upgraded. Other possible services include product customisation and optimisation, and sub-domains, namely separation processes, advanced robotics, and additive manufacturing [1]. In regards to collaborative robotics, Douthwaite et. al have proposed a modular DT framework targeting the safety assurance of industrial collaborative robotics processes [4].

The contribution in this paper lies in a case study showcasing the applicability of a DT for enhancing cyber-physical systems operations. Specifically, we showed (i) how a DT can augment the capabilities of its PT running remotely on-premise, not bound by resource and computation constraints, while also allowing for fallback mechanisms should the DT become unavailable, and (ii) how the DT can provide increased fault tolerance by taking over certain functionalities in case of failures in the PT.

The main limitation in this paper concerns the realism of the adopted case study of an autonomous rover, especially the functionality under study, i.e. the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC). However, in domains such as agriculture, where the speeds of the robots would be limited, as well as traffic and the interaction with humans, the ACC example is representative. Another limitation relates to the assumption of best-effort real-time communication, without provision of guarantees.

Future work will investigate the adequacy of the proposed approach for safety-critical research, as well as its adaption for real-time communication, where formal methods could be adopted to provide guarantees. In addition, we are interested in investigating in-depth a methodology for DT-PT codevelopment, that fits well the DevOps gap in CPS development, a promising venue of research [15].
