[9] M.
Augustine, “Model predictive control using MATLAB”, arXiv, Sep.
2023.
[10] B.
Ho and R.
Kalman, “Effective construction of linear state-variable models from input/output functions”, Regelungstechnik, vol.
14, pp.
545-592, 1966.
[11] S.
Kung, “A new identification and model reduction algorithm via singular value decomposition”, 12th Asilomar Conference on Circuits, Systems and Computers, Pacific Grove, CA, USA, 1978.
[12] M.
Viberg, “Subspace-based methods for the identification of linear time-invariant systems”, Automatica, vol.
31, pp.
1835-1851, Dec.
1995.
[13] P.
Overschee , B.
Moor, “Subspace identification for linear systems: Theory — implementation — applications”, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1996.
[14] W.
Favoreel, B.
Moor, and M.
Gevers, “SPC: Subspace predictive control”, 14th IFAC World Congress, Beijing, China, Jul.
1999.
[15] R.
Shumway and D.
Stoffer, “Time series analysis and its applications, Fourth edition”, Springer, 2017.
[16] R.
Lim, M.
Phan, and R.
Longman, “State estimation with ARMarkov models”, Technical Report, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, 3046, 1998.
[17] J.
Willems, P.
Rapisarda, I.
Markovsky, and B.
Moor, “A note on persistency of excitation”, Systems and Control Letters, vol.
54, pp.
325–329, 2005.
[18] M.
Augustine, M.
Bhushan, S.
Bhartiya, T.
Baudequin, F.
Vuyst “Deep learning in process modeling: A survey”, Preprint, Sep.
2024.
[19] K.
Narendra and K.
Parthasarathy, “Identification and control of dynamical systems using neural networks”, IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol.
1, no.
1, pp.
6356 - 6359, Mar.
1990.
[20] R.
Williams and D.
Zipser, “Gradient-based learning algorithms for recurrent networks and their computational complexity”, Backpropagation: Theory, Architectures, and Applications, pp.
1-45, 1995.
[21] J.
Hopfield, “Neurons with graded response have collective computational properties like those of two-state neurons”, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
vol.
10, pp.
3088–3092, 1984.
[22] M.
Augustine, “A tutorial on neural networks and activation functions”, Preprint, Oct.
2023.
[23] M.
Augustine, “A survey on universal approximation theorems”, arXiv, Jul.
2024.
[24] S.
Bhartiya and J.
Whiteley,“Factorized approach to nonlinear MPC using a radial basis function model”, AIChE journal, vol.
26, pp.
1185-1199, Feb.
2001.
[25] J.
Suykens, B.
Moor, and J.
