Probabilistic reasoning in intelligent systems: networks of plausible inference.
Elsevier, 2014.

Judea Pearl. The seven tools of causal inference, with reflections on machine learning. Communications of the ACM, 62(3):54–60, 2019.   
Judea Pearl et al. Causal inference in statistics: An overview. Statistics surveys, 3:96–146, 2009.   
Spencer Peters and Joseph Y. Halpern. Causal modeling with infinitely many variables, 2021.   
Hendrik Roehm, Jens Oehlerking, Matthias Woehrle, and Matthias Althoff. Model conformance for cyber-physical systems: A survey. ACM Trans. Cyber-Phys. Syst., 3(3), aug 2019.   
Ali Shojaie and Emily B Fox. Granger causality: A review and recent advances. Annual Review of Statistics and Its Application, 9:289–319, 2022.   
Peter Spirtes. Introduction to causal inference. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 11(5), 2010.   
Martin Treiber, Ansgar Hennecke, and Dirk Helbing. Congested traffic states in empirical observations and microscopic simulations. Physical review E, 62(2):1805, 2000.   
Jan Tretmans. Conformance testing with labelled transition systems: Implementation relations and test generation. Computer networks and ISDN systems, 29(1):49–79, 1996.   
Michiel Van Osch. Hybrid input-output conformance and test generation. In Formal Approaches to Software Testing and Runtime Verification, pages 70–84. Springer, 2006.   
Martin Weiglhofer, Bernhard K Aichernig, and Franz Wotawa. Fault-based conformance testing in practice. Int. J. Softw. Informatics, 3(2-3):375–411, 2009.   
Edward N Zalta, Uri Nodelman, Colin Allen, and John Perry. Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy, 1995.   
Zhenya Zhang, Jie An, Paolo Arcaini, and Ichiro Hasuo. Online causation monitoring of signal temporal logic. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17754, 2023.   
Zhenya Zhang, Gidon Ernst, Sean Sedwards, Paolo Arcaini, and Ichiro Hasuo. Two-layered falsification of hybrid systems guided by monte carlo tree search. IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, 37(11):2894–2905, 2018.
