In A Journey from Process Algebra via Timed Automata to Model Learning: Essays Dedicated to Frits Vaandrager on the Occasion of His 60th Birthday, pages 27–45.
Springer, 2022.
Christel Baier, Florian Funke, Jakob Piribauer, and Robin Ziemek.
On probability-raising causality in Markov decision processes.
In FoSSaCS, pages 40–60, 2022.
Sander Beckers and Joseph Y Halpern.
Abstracting causal models.
In Proceedings of the aaai conference on artificial intelligence, volume 33, pages 2678–2685, 2019.

Ilan Beer, Shoham Ben-David, Hana Chockler, Avigail Orni, and Richard Trefler.
Explaining counterexamples using causality.
In International Conference on Computer Aided Verification, pages 94–108.
Springer, 2009.
Carl Bergenhem, Steven Shladover, Erik Coelingh, Christoffer Englund, and Sadayuki Tsugawa.
Overview of platooning systems.
In Proceedings of the 19th ITS World Congress, Oct 22-26, Vienna, Austria (2012), 2012.
Nguyen Thanh Binh et al.
Mutation operators for Simulink models.
In Knowledge and Systems Engineering (KSE), 2012 Fourth International Conference on, pages 54–59.
IEEE, 2012.
Hichem Boudali, Pepijn Crouzen, and Mari¨elle Stoelinga.
A compositional semantics for Dynamic Fault Trees in terms of Interactive Markov Chains.
In International Symposium on Automated Technology for Verification and Analysis, pages 441–456.
Springer, 2007.
Georgiana Caltais, Mohammad Reza Mousavi, and Hargurbir Singh.
Causal reasoning for safety in Hennessy-Milner logic.
Fundamenta Informaticae, 173(2-3):217–251, 2020.
Xin Chen, Erika Abrah´am, and Sriram Sankaranarayanan.
Flow\*: An analyzer for non- ´ linear hybrid systems.
In International Conference on Computer Aided Verification, pages 258–263.
Springer, 2013.
Ferdinando Chiacchio, Diego D’Urso, Lucio Compagno, Marzio Pennisi, Francesco Pappalardo, and Gabriele Manno.
SHyFTA, a stochastic hybrid fault tree automaton for the modelling and simulation of dynamic reliability problems.
Expert Systems with Applications, 47:42–57, 2016.
Hana Chockler, Orna Grumberg, and Avi Yadgar.
Efficient automatic STE refinement using responsibility.
In International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems, pages 233–248.
Springer, 2008.
Hana Chockler and Joseph Y Halpern.
Responsibility and blame: A structural-model approach.
Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, 22:93–115, 2004.
Ziquan Deng, Samuel P Eshima, James Nabity, and Zhaodan Kong.
Causal signal temporal logic for the environmental control and life support system’s fault analysis and explanation.
IEEE Access, 11:26471–26482, 2023.
Alexandre Donz´e.
Breach, a toolbox for verification and parameter synthesis of hybrid systems.
In International Conference on Computer Aided Verification, pages 167–170.
Springer, 2010.
Clemens Dubslaff, Kallistos Weis, Christel Baier, and Sven Apel.
