# Appendix B. Soundness

In order to discuss the soundness of our implementation of the definition of cause, we provide a one-to-one compositional mapping between the constructs used in Algorithm 2 and the concepts introduced in Definition 18. Firstly, we provide Proposition 1 that makes the mapping easier to understand.

Proposition 1. In our implementation, $( M , u ) \mathrel { \mathop { = } } ( c  { \vec { x } } )$ always holds by construction.

Proof. In our implementation, the causal model M is built independently of a system execution. However, once a trajectory (c) that leads to a failure (Φ) is found, the trajectory that corresponds to the exogenous variables (u) is built by applying the projection $\left( c \downarrow u \right)$ . Thus $( M , u )$ is always built around c. Furthermore, the list of trajectory slices in the cause $( { \vec { x } } _ { X } )$ is, by construction, taken from $c \downarrow \nu$ . Thus, Proposition 1 follows. □

In what follows, we provide a one-to-one compositional mapping of Definition 18 into Algorithm 2 (see Table 10) and explain it below. For that, we rely on the assumption that the inputs (generated by our search heuristic in Algorithm 1) are generated appropriately from the models and that the causal model conforms with the system. In the preamble for the definition of cause, a causal model M, a trajectory $c ,$ and a conjunction of Boolean predicates Φ are given; analogously, they are given as input for our algorithm. Furthermore, the definition requires a list of variables $\vec { X } \in \nu$ that is taken from the causal model in the search algorithm. Lastly, the theory also calls for a list of trajectory slices ⃗x. In both the algorithm and the definition, to determine cause, three clauses must be satisfied (4th row of Table 10).
