# 6.4 Benchmarks

Here, we discuss the result of an experiment using CPS benchmarks found in the literature3 to assess and report on the scalability of our strategy. The benchmarks that are presented here can be used to assess different aspects of CPSs verification. All benchmarks were chosen such that they are scalable in different problem dimensions.

The benchmarks originate from a variety of domains with the purpose of testing scalability with respect to the number of variables or locations. We make use of three benchmarks and each one assess a different scalability aspect.

This collection is organised by model and complexity. To ensure comparability of results, the specifications are unambiguous and formally described in hybrid automata [6] which is a state-based modelling formalism for CPSs. One of the most constraining problem dimensions in hybrid systems verification are the number of continuous variables and the number of states (or locations) and transitions. All models are available with the HyConf tool4. The aim of this experiment is to evaluate the performance of the causal analysis. We measure its efficiency using 3 benchmarks systems. Moreover, each system comprises four variations that are incrementally complex (see Table 8).

Table 8: Overview of the benchmark systems.

<table><tr><td>System</td><td>Variables</td><td>Locations</td><td>Transitions</td></tr><tr><td>Glycemic Control I</td><td>11</td><td>6</td><td>10</td></tr><tr><td>Glycemic Control II</td><td>11</td><td>9</td><td>18</td></tr><tr><td>Glycemic Control II</td><td>11</td><td>12</td><td>32</td></tr><tr><td>Glycemic Control IV</td><td>11</td><td>15</td><td>56</td></tr><tr><td>Filtered Oscillator I</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Filtered Oscillator II</td><td>10</td><td>4</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Filtered Oscillator III</td><td>18</td><td>4</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Filtered Oscillator IV</td><td>34</td><td>4</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>Two-tank system I</td><td>4</td><td>8</td><td>28</td></tr><tr><td>Two-tank system II</td><td>10</td><td>16</td><td>66</td></tr><tr><td>Two-tank system III</td><td>16</td><td>24</td><td>128</td></tr><tr><td>Two-tank system IV</td><td>22</td><td>34</td><td>296</td></tr></table>

The Glycemic Control example is used to evaluate the increase in the number of locations and transitions whilst the number of variables remains constant. Conversely, the filtered oscillator is used to asses the increase in the number of variables whilst the structural components (i.e., locations and transitions) remain constant. Finally, the two-tank system is used to assess the increase in both the number of variables and number of locations and transitions, simultaneously.
