# REFERENCES

[1] M. Krstic, I. Kanellakopoulos, and P. V. Kokotovic, Nonlinear and Adaptive Control Design. New York, NY, USA: Wiley, 1995.   
[2] M. Chen, S. S. Ge and B. Ren, ”Adaptive tracking control of uncertain MIMO nonlinear systems with input constraints”, Automatica, vol. 47, no. 3, pp. 452-465, 2011.   
[3] X. Wang, Z. Yin, Y. Lei, T. Huang, and J. Kurths, ”Secure consensus for switched multiagent systems under DoS attacks: Hybrid event-triggered and impulsive control approach,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, 2025.   
[4] Z. Wang, ”Hybrid Event-triggered Control of Nonlinear System with Full State Constraints and Disturbance,” 36th Chinese Control Decision Conference, pp. 2122-2127, 2024.   
[5] N. Pang, X. Wang, and Z. Wang, ”Event-triggered adaptive control of nonlinear systems with dynamic uncertainties: The switching threshold case,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Systems II Express Briefs, vol. 69, no. 8, pp. 3540-3544, 2022.   
[6] Z. Wang, X. Wang and N. Pang, ”Adaptive Fixed-Time Control for Full State-Constrained Nonlinear Systems: Switched-Self-Triggered Case” IEEE Trans. Cir. Sys. II Exp. Briefs, vol. 71, no. 2, pp. 752-756, 2024.   
[7] X. Wang, S. Zhang, H. Li, W. Zhang, H. Li and T. Huang, ”Neuroadaptive Containment Control for Nonlinear Multiagent Systems With Input Saturation: An Event-Triggered Communication Approach,” IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man and Cybernetics: Systems, pp. 1-11, 2025.   
[8] H. Michalska and D. Q. Mayne, ”Robust receding horizon control of constrained nonlinear systems”, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 38, no. 11, pp. 1623-1633, 1993.
