# 6.4.2 Hypotheses

In order to answer our research questions, we define the metric T DC, which represents the time to determine a cause. Hypotheses A, B, and C aim to evaluate the research questions that have been explained previously, respectively. For this, null hypotheses are defined, which state that the duration of the causal analysis does not grow linearly with the increase in the complexity of the analysis. This experiment aims to refute such hypotheses. Thus, alternative hypotheses are also defined, which have a complementary role to the null hypotheses, and can be accepted in case its counterpart hypotheses are rejected. We define 6 hypotheses: A0 and A1 (null and alternative, respectively), checks whether the T DC grows linearly with the number of endogenous variables. Analogously, hypotheses B0 and B1 (null and alternative, respectively) consider the number of variables in the systems. Lastly, C0 and C1 consider the number of locations and transitions in the system.

• $H _ { A 0 }$ : The T DC grows linearly with the number of selected endogenous variables.

• $H _ { A 1 } { \mathrm { : } }$ The T DC does not grow linearly with the number of selected endogenous variables.   
• $H _ { B 0 } { \mathrm { : } }$ The T DC grows linearly with the number of variables in the system.   
• $H _ { B 1 }$ : The T DC does not grow linearly with the number of variables in the system.   
• HC0: The T DC grows linearly with the number of locations and transitions in the system.   
• $H _ { C 1 } { \mathrm { : } }$ The T DC does not grow linearly with the number of locations and transitions in the system.
