Causality in configurable software systems.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.07280, 2022.
Joanne Bechta Dugan, Salvatore J Bavuso, and Mark A Boyd.
Dynamic fault-tree models for fault-tolerant computer systems.
IEEE Transactions on reliability, 41(3):363–377, 1992.

Clifton A Ericson and Clifton Ll.
Fault tree analysis.
In System Safety Conference, Orlando, Florida, volume 1, pages 1–9, 1999.
ETSI EN 302 637- 2;
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS);
vehicular communications;
basic set of applications;
part 2: Specification of cooperative awareness basic service, 2013.
Georgios E Fainekos and George J Pappas.
Robustness of temporal logic specifications for continuous-time signals.
Theoretical Computer Science, 410(42):4262–4291, 2009.
Goran Frehse, Colas Le Guernic, Alexandre Donz´e, Scott Cotton, Rajarshi Ray, Olivier Lebeltel, Rodolfo Ripado, Antoine Girard, Thao Dang, and Oded Maler.
SpaceEx: Scalable verification of hybrid systems.
In International Conference on Computer Aided Verification, pages 379–395.
Springer, 2011.
Nathan Fulton, Stefan Mitsch, Jan-David Quesel, Marcus V¨olp, and Andr´e Platzer.
Keymaera x: An axiomatic tactical theorem prover for hybrid systems.
In International Conference on Automated Deduction, pages 527–538.
Springer, 2015.
Dan Geiger and Judea Pearl.
On the logic of causal models.
In Machine intelligence and pattern recognition, volume 9, pages 3–14.
Elsevier, 1990.
Clive WJ Granger.
Investigating causal relations by econometric models and cross-spectral methods.
Econometrica: journal of the Econometric Society, pages 424–438, 1969.
Jan Friso Groote and Mohammad Reza Mousavi.
Modeling and analysis of communicating systems.
MIT press, 2014.
Philip George Guest and Philip George Guest.
Numerical methods of curve fitting.
Cambridge University Press, 2012.
Joseph Halpern.
A modification of the Halpern-Pearl definition of causality.
In Twenty-Fourth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2015.
Joseph Y Halpern.
Actual causality.
MiT Press, 2016.
Joseph Y Halpern and Judea Pearl.
Causes and explanations: A structural-model approach - part I: Causes.
In Proc.
Seventeenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2001), pages 194—-202, 2001.
Joseph Y Halpern and Judea Pearl.
Causes and explanations: A structural-model approach.
part I: Causes.
The British journal for the philosophy of science, 56(4):843–887, 2005.
Joseph Y Halpern and Judea Pearl.
Causes and explanations: A structural-model approach.
part II: Explanations.
The British journal for the philosophy of science, 56(4):889– 911, 2005.
Daniel Murray Hausman.
