# REFERENCES

[1] W.
Tang and P.
Daoutidis, “Data-driven control: Overview and perspectives,” in 2022 American Control Conference (ACC), 2022, pp.
1048– 1064.
[2] B.
Gravell, I.
Shames, and T.
Summers, “Robust data-driven output feedback control via bootstrapped multiplicative noise,” in Learning for Dynamics and Control Conference.
PMLR, 2022, pp.
650–662.
[3] A.
Ronnmark and D.
Landr ¨ e, “Implementation of direct data-driven ´ control on an instrumented bicycle,” 2024.
[4] A.
Sassella, V.
Breschi, and S.
Formentin, “A practitioner’s guide to noise handling strategies in data-driven predictive control,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
56, no.
2, pp.
1382–1387, 2023, 22nd IFAC World Congress.
[5] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Low-complexity learning of linear quadratic regulators from noisy data,” Automatica, vol.
128, p.
109548, 2021.
[6] R.
Esmzad and H.
Modares, “Direct data-driven discounted infinite horizon linear quadratic regulator with robustness guarantees,” Automatica, vol.
175, p.
112197, 2025.
[7] Z.
Qin and A.
Karimi, “Data-driven output feedback control based on behavioral approach,” in 2024 American Control Conference (ACC), 2024, pp.
3954–3959.
[8] F.
Dorfler, J.
Coulson, and I.
Markovsky, “Bridging direct and indirect ¨ data-driven control formulations via regularizations and relaxations,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
2, pp.
883–897, 2023.
[9] H.
J.
van Waarde, J.
Eising, H.
L.
Trentelman, and M.
K.
Camlibel, “Data informativity: A new perspective on data-driven analysis and control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
11, pp.
4753– 4768, 2020.
[10] X.
Dai, C.
De Persis, and N.
Monshizadeh, “Data-driven optimal output feedback control of linear systems from input-output data,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
56, no.
2, pp.
1376–1381, 2023, 22nd IFAC World Congress.
[11] J.
Miller, J.
Eising, F.
Dorfler, and R.
S.
Smith, “Data-driven ¨ structured robust control of linear systems,” 2024.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11542   
[12] T.
Dai and M.
Sznaier, “Data-driven quadratic stabilization and lqr control of lti systems,” Automatica, vol.
153, p.
111041, 2023.
[13] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
3, pp.
909–924, 2020.
[14] W.
Liu, G.
Wang, J.
Sun, F.
Bullo, and J.
