# 5 Recent Developements and Future Directions

In this paper we focused on model-based D-MPC in which a model of the system is first identified from data, then used to predict future system behavior and optimize control actions. While the focus of this paper is on model-based D-MPC, it is worth noting that recent research has also explored model-free data-driven MPC approaches. One notable approach is DeePC [6, 7], discussed in Section 3.4, which employs data-driven constraints formulated using input-output Hankel matrices. Several variants of DeePC have also been proposed, including γ-data driven predictive control, generalized data-driven predictive control, and others [8, 28, 29]. In these methods, the data itself is directly utilized to compute control schemes, without the need for an explicit system model.

One of the major challenges associated with D-NMPC is that the model order is unknown for many of the practical systems. In the initial approaches of SSNN, the order of the system is assumed to be known, and the SSNN order is chosen as the system order [25, 26, 27]. However, in practice, the order of the system is mostly unknown (for systems without any first-principle models available). In [30], a sparsity-based regularization term is used in an autoencoder for identifying a reduced-order state-space model. In [31], model-order identification problem is addressed where the idea of variance-based ordering [32] is used to determine the model order in a systematic way. The approach is known as SSNN with ordered variance (SSNNO). Variance ordering is achieved in SSNNO by modifying the loss function in Eq. (78) as:

$$L _ {y _ {\mathrm{SSNNO}}} = \underbrace {\alpha_ {1} \| \mathbf {Y} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \hat {\mathbf {Y}} _ {\mathrm{D}} \| _ {F} ^ {2}} _ {L _ {1}} + \underbrace {\alpha_ {2} \| \mathbf {W} _ {\mathbf {x}} ^ {\frac {1}{2}} [ \mathbf {X} _ {\mathrm{D}} - \bar {\mathbf {X}} _ {\mathrm{D}} ] \| _ {F} ^ {2}} _ {L _ {2}} + \underbrace {\alpha_ {3} \| \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {f}} \| _ {F} ^ {2} + \alpha_ {4} \| \boldsymbol {\theta} _ {\mathbf {h}} \| _ {F} ^ {2}} _ {L _ {3}} \tag {81}$$
