# References

Global optimisation toolbox. global-optimization.html, 2021.

https://uk.mathworks.com/products/

Houssam Abbas, Bardh Hoxha, Georgios E.
Fainekos, J.
V.
Deshmukh, James Kapinski, and Koichi Ueda.
Conformance testing as falsification for cyber-physical systems.
In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 5th International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS 2014), page 211.
IEEE, 2014.
Houssam Abbas, Bardh Hoxha, Georgios E.
Fainekos, J.
V.
Deshmukh, James Kapinski, and Koichi Ueda.
WiP abstract: Conformance testing as falsification for cyberphysical systems.
In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 5th International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS 2014), page 211.
IEEE CS, 2014.
Available online: http://arxiv.org/abs/1401.5200.
Rui Abreu, Peter Zoeteweij, Rob Golsteijn, and Arjan JC Van Gemund.
A practical evaluation of spectrum-based fault localization.
Journal of Systems and Software, 82(11):1780– 1792, 2009.
Rajeev Alur.
Principles of cyber-physical systems.
MIT Press, 2015.
Rajeev Alur, Costas Courcoubetis, Thomas A Henzinger, and Pei-Hsin Ho.
Hybrid automata: An algorithmic approach to the specification and verification of hybrid systems.
In Hybrid systems, pages 209–229.
Springer, 1993.
Yashwanth Annpureddy, Che Liu, Georgios Fainekos, and Sriram Sankaranarayanan.
S-TaLiRo: A tool for temporal logic falsification for hybrid systems.
In International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems, pages 254–257.
Springer, 2011.
Hugo Araujo, Gustavo Carvalho, Mohammad Mousavi, and Augusto Sampaio.
Multiobjective search for effective testing of cyber-physical systems.
In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Software Engineering and Formal Methods.
Springer, 2019.
Hugo Araujo, Ties Hoenselaar, Mohammad Reza Mousavi, and Alexey Vinel.
Connected automated driving: A model-based approach to the analysis of basic awareness services.
In 2020 IEEE 31st Annual International Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications, pages 1–7.
IEEE, 2020.
Christel Baier, Clemens Dubslaff, Florian Funke, Simon Jantsch, Rupak Majumdar, Jakob Piribauer, and Robin Ziemek.
From verification to causality-based explications.
2021.
Christel Baier, Clemens Dubslaff, Florian Funke, Simon Jantsch, Jakob Piribauer, and Robin Ziemek.
Operational causality–necessarily sufficient and sufficiently necessary.
