# 7. Conclusions

Causal analysis is an essential ingredient of counterexample analysis conducted after verification techniques, providing an effective technique to isolate and eventually remove hazards in the design and failures observed in the verification process.

In this work, we propose a formal theory and a practical analysis technique for assessing causality in continuous systems. We attained the following results: 1) we extended an existing theory of actual causality [39] to cope with cyber-physical systems 2) we developed a process to apply the theory of causality and developed and integrated the algorithms in our tool (HyConf [8]), and 3) we applied the developed technique to two case studies to evaluate its effectiveness.

As for future work, in the case where multiple causes are provided, we aim to rank the causes based on a weighted criteria (e.g., cost or responsibility [22]). Moreover, the notation for describing the effects (i.e, Φ) should be extended to consider the temporal quantifiers of Signal Temporal Logic [48]. Furthermore, there is an important discussion to be had with respect to the use of (good) causal models. In our strategy, causal models will determine whether an appropriate cause can be found and, thus, the choice of causal model is of high importance. An option is to obtain and using input-output relationship descriptions from hybrid system models [50], which can assist the user with building relevant causal models.

Currently, concerning the theory, we allow R to be any trajectory vector that obeys the signal types, but without considering any further constraints of the specification besides maximum and minimum values for variables. This may result in causes that do not obey specified dynamics. We aim to address this issue as future work by, during the search, limiting the derivatives to reasonable boundaries obtained by, for instance, exploring hybrid automata [6] models that can be fed as input.

Lastly, despite our measures to address performance-related issues, we believe it is possible to further improve efficiency of the tool. We aim to do this by studying the effect of different search strategies as well as analysing the impact of the length of the trajectories involved in the causal analysis (e.g., the one that contains the fault and the ones that contain the causes).
