# REFERENCES

[1] V.
Utkin, “Variable structure systems with sliding modes,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic control, vol.
22, no.
2, pp.
212–222, 1977.
[2] V.
Utkin and J.
Shi, “Integral sliding mode in systems operating under uncertainty conditions,” in Proceedings of 35th IEEE conference on decision and control, vol.
4.
IEEE, 1996, pp.
4591–4596.
[3] S.
P.
Bhat and D.
S.
Bernstein, “Finite-time stability of continuous autonomous systems,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
38, no.
3, pp.
751–766, 2000.
[4] E.
Moulay and W.
Perruquetti, “Finite time stability and stabilization of a class of continuous systems,” Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, vol.
323, no.
2, pp.
1430–1443, 2006.
[5] D.
Efimov and A.
Polyakov, “Finite-time stability tools for control and estimation,” Foundations and Trends® in Systems and Control, vol.
9, no.
2-3, pp.
171–364, 2021.
[Online].
Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1561/2600000026   
[6] A.
Polyakov, “Nonlinear feedback design for fixed-time stabilization of linear control systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
57, no.
8, pp.
2106–2110, 2011.
[7] F.
Lopez-Ramirez, D.
Efimov, A.
Polyakov, and W.
Perruquetti, “Finite-time and fixed-time input-to-state stability: Explicit and implicit approaches,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
144, p.
104775, 2020.
[8] M.
Golestani, S.
M.
Esmaeilzadeh, and S.
Mobayen, “Fixed-time control for high-precision attitude stabilization of flexible spacecraft,” European Journal of Control, vol.
57, pp.
222–231, 2021.
[9] F.
Lopez-Ramirez, D.
Efimov, A.
Polyakov, and W.
Perruquetti, “Conditions for fixed-time stability and stabilization of continuous autonomous systems,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
129, pp.
26–35, 2019.
[10] Y.
Chen, Z.
Liu, C.
P.
Chen, and Y.
Zhang, “Adaptive fuzzy fixedtime control of switched systems: Mode-dependent power integrator method,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
52, no.
11, pp.
6998–7012, 2022.
[11] Y.
Liu, H.
Li, R.
Lu, Z.
Zuo, and X.
Li, “An overview of finite/fixedtime control and its application in engineering systems,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
9, no.
12, pp.
2106–2120, 2022.
[12] J.
Ni, L.
Liu, C.
Liu, X.
Hu, and S.
