# 6.4.1 Methodology

The main goal of this study is the performance evaluation of our causal analysis. This experiment aims to verify whether the duration of the analysis grows linearly with the size of the subject system and the number of endogenous variables selected. Another motivation behind this study is the fact that there are few empirical and controlled experiments to evaluate the efficiency of causal analysis in general.

• RQ1: Does the duration of the causal analysis grow linearly with the number of selected endogenous variables?   
• RQ2: Does the duration of the causal analysis grow linearly with the number of variables in the subject system?   
• RQ3: Does the duration of the causal analysis grow linearly with the number of locations and transitions in the subject system?

We would like to note that it is possible to increase the number of endogenous variables without increasing the number of overall variables in the system by moving variables from the exogenous set of variables to the endogenous one. Conversely, it is also possible to increase the number of system variables without increasing the number of endogenous ones by adding them to the exogenous set.

We analyse the efficiency of our strategies using mutation analysis. The mutation operators used in this experiment were chosen based on a study on mutation operators for critical systems [16]. We introduce five mutations for each system; all of the mutations change the value of variables in the systems. Then, we divide the executions in 3 stages. In each stage, we iteratively increment the number of endogenous variables considered in the search by a third of the total system variables. That is, in first stage, a third of the variables are considered as endogenous. In the second stage, we consider two thirds of the variables, and finally, in the third stage, every system variable is considered as endogenous. This choice is made randomly. We, then, collect the mean time to determine causes, which is followed by a statistical analysis of the results.
