[8] R. D. DeBoskey, E. Cavanaugh, J. Liu, and V. Narayanaswamy, “Augmentation of solid fuel ramjet performance using morphing inlet design,” in AIAA SCITECH 2025 Forum.   
[9] A. Goel, A. Xie, K. Duraisamy, and D. S. Bernstein, “Retrospective cost adaptive thrust control of a 1d scramjet with mach number disturbance,” in 2015 American Control Conference (ACC), IEEE, 2015, pp. 5551–5556.   
[10] A. Goel, K. Duraisamy, and D. S. Bernstein, “Retrospective cost adaptive control of unstart in a model scramjet combustor,” AIAA Journal, vol. 56, no. 3, pp. 1085–1096, 2018.   
[11] P. Oveissi, A. Trivedi, A. Goel, O. Tumuklu, K. M. Hanquist, A. Farahmandi, and D. Philbrick, “Learning-based adaptive thrust regulation of solid fuel ramjet,” in AIAA SCITECH 2023 Forum, 2023, p. 2533.   
[12] P. Oveissi, A. Goel, O. Tumuklu, and K. M. Hanquist, “Adaptive Combustion Regulation in Solid Fuel Ramjet,” in AIAA SCITECH 2024 Forum, AIAA Paper 2024-0743, 2024. (visited on 05/29/2024).   
[13] P. Oveissi, A. Dorsey, G. T. Khokhar, K. M. Hanquist, and A. Goel, “Adaptive combustion regulation in high-fidelity computational model of solid fuel ramjet,” in AIAA SciTech 2025 Forum, 2025, p. 0352.   
[14] T. R. Conners and R. L. Sims, “Full flight envelope direct thrust measurement on a supersonic aircraft. washington, dc: Nasa,” NASA TM-1998-206560, Tech. Rep., 1998.   
[15] A. Netzer and A. Gany, “Burning and flameholding characteristics of a miniature solid fuel ramjet combustor,” Journal of Propulsion and Power, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 357–363, 1991.   
[16] R. G. Veraar and W. Wieling, “Sustained combustion limits of a central dump solid fuel ramjet combustor at high altitude operational conditions,” in 2018 Joint Propulsion Conference, 2018, p. 4449.   
[17] R. D. DeBoskey, A. Sahoo, M. Khan, S. E. Gneuss, M. Fischer, and V. Narayanaswamy, “Development and characterization of small-scale optically accessible solid fuel ramjet direct-connect facility,” in AIAA SCITECH 2025 Forum.   
[18] A. Zavoli, P. Maria Zolla, L. Federici, M. Tindaro Migliorino, and D. Bianchi, “Surrogate neural network for rapid flight performance evaluation of hybrid rocket engines,” Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets, vol. 59, no. 6, pp. 2003–2016, 2022.
