in 47th AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE joint propulsion conference & exhibit, 2011, p. 5756.   
[31] J. P. Reardon, J. A. Schetz, and K. T. Lowe, “Computational analysis of unstart in variable-geometry inlet,” Journal of Propulsion and Power, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 564–576, 2021.   
[32] Y. Liu, L. Wang, and Z. Qian, “Numerical investigation on the assistant restarting method of variable geometry for high mach number inlet,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol. 79, pp. 647–657, 2018.   
[33] A. Ramprakash and T. M. Muruganandam, “Experimental study on internal flowfield characteristics and start-unstart behaviour in a two-dimensional variable geometry inlet,” in 7th International Conference on Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (ICMAE), IEEE, 2016, pp. 465–470.   
[34] J. Teng and H. Yuan, “Variable geometry cowl sidewall for improving rectangular hypersonic inlet performance,” Aerospace Science and Technology, vol. 42, pp. 128–135, 2015.   
[35] C. Vaught, M. Witt, D. Netzer, and A. Gany, “Investigation of solid-fuel, dual-mode combustion ramjets,” Journal of Propulsion and Power, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 1004–1011, 1992.   
[36] I. Hadar and A. Gany, “Fuel regression mechanism in a solid fuel ramjet,” Propellants, Explosives, Pyrotechnics, vol. 17, pp. 70–76, 2 1992, ISSN: 15214087.   
[37] D. G. Goodwin, H. K. Moffat, I. Schoegl, R. L. Speth, and B. W. Weber, Cantera: An object-oriented software toolkit for chemical kinetics, thermodynamics, and transport processes, https://www.cantera.org, Version 3.0.0, 2023.   
[38] P. P. Ciottoli, R. M. Galassi, P. E. Lapenna, G. Leccese, D. Bianchi, F. Nasuti, F. Creta, and M. Valorani, “Cspbased chemical kinetics mechanisms simplification strategy for non-premixed combustion: An application to hybrid rocket propulsion,” Combustion and Flame, vol. 186, pp. 83–93, 2017, ISSN: 15562921.   
[39] R. DeBoskey, D. A. Kessler, B. Bojko, R. F. Johnson, A. Kercher, E. Ching, and V. Narayanaswamy, “Development and evaluation of reduced kinetics models for 1, 3-butadiene– air combustion,” Journal of Propulsion and Power, pp. 1–20, 2025.   
[40] R. DeBoskey, C. Geipel, D. Kessler, B. Bojko, B. Fisher, R. F. Johnson, and V. Narayanaswamy, “Numerical and experimental investigation of flame dynamics in opposed-flow solid fuel burner,” Combustion and Flame, vol. 273, p. 113 960, 2025.
