# REFERENCES

[1] “U.S.
battery capacity increased 66% in 2024,” March 2025, U.S.
energy information administration.
[2] “Data centres improved greatly in energy efficiency as they grew massively larger,” January 2024, the Economist.
[3] X.
Han, X.
Feng, M.
Ouyang, L.
Lu, J.
Li, Y.
Zheng, and Z.
Li, “A comparative study of charging voltage curve analysis and state of health estimation of lithium-ion batteries in electric vehicle,” Automotive Innovation, vol.
2, no.
4, pp.
263–275, December 2019.
[Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s42154-019-00080-2   
[4] T.
Ting, K.
L.
Man, N.
Zhang, C.-U.
Lei, and C.
Lu, “State-space battery modeling for smart battery management system,” IMECS, vol.
II, 2014.
[5] S.
Sundaresan, B.
C.
Devabattini, P.
Kumar, K.
R.
Pattipati, and B.
Balasingam, “Tabular open circuit voltage modelling of li-ion batteries for robust soc estimation,” Energies, vol.
15, no.
23, 2022.
[Online].
Available: https://www.mdpi.com/1996-1073/15/23/9142   
[6] B.
Pattipati, B.
Balasingam, G.
V.
Avvari, K.
R.
Pattipati, and Y.
Bar-Shalom, “Open circuit voltage characterization of lithium-ion batteries,” Journal of Power Sources, vol.
269, pp.
317–333, 2014.
[7] Z.
He, M.
Gao, C.
Wang, L.
Wang, and Y.
Liu, “Adaptive state of charge estimation for li-ion batteries based on an unscented kalman filter with an enhanced battery model,” Energies, vol.
6, no.
8, pp.
4134–4151, 2013.
[8] X.
Hu, F.
Sun, and Y.
Zou, “Estimation of state of charge of a lithiumion battery pack for electric vehicles using an adaptive luenberger observer,” Energies, vol.
3, no.
9, pp.
1586–1603, 2010.
[9] D.
Kim, K.
Koo, J.
J.
Jeong, T.
Goh, and S.
W.
Kim, “Second-order discrete-time sliding mode observer for state of charge determination based on a dynamic resistance li-ion battery model,” Energies, vol.
6, no.
10, pp.
5538–5551, 2013.
[10] J.
Xu, C.
C.
Mi, B.
Cao, J.
Deng, Z.
Chen, and S.
Li, “The state of charge estimation of lithium-ion batteries based on a proportionalintegral observer,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol.
63, no.
4, pp.
1614–1621, 2013.
[11] A.
R.
Liu and R.
R.
Bitmead, “Stochastic observability in network state estimation and control,” Automatica, vol.
47, no.
1, pp.
65–78, 2011.
[12] K.
J.
Astr ˚ om, ¨ Introduction to stochastic control theory.
Courier Corporation, 2012.
[13] A.
A.
Feldbaum, “Dual control theory.
i,” Avtomatika i Telemekhanika, vol.
21, no.
9, pp.
1240–1249, 1960.
[14] E.
