Panathula, “Chattering analysis of hosm controlled systems: frequency domain approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
62, no.
8, pp.
4109–4115, 2017.
[32] U.
Perez-Ventura and L.
Fridman, “When is it reasonable to implement ´ the discontinuous sliding-mode controllers instead of the continuous ones?
frequency domain criteria,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
29, no.
3, pp.
810–828, 2018.
[33] U.
Perez-Ventura and L.
Fridman, “Design of super-twisting control ´ gains: A describing function based methodology,” Automatica, vol.
99, pp.
175–180, 2019.
[34] U.
Perez-Ventura, J.
Mendoza-Avila, and L.
Fridman, “Design of a ´ proportional integral derivative-like continuous sliding mode controller,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 2021.
[35] V.
Utkin, A.
Poznyak, Y.
Orlov, and A.
Polyakov, “Conventional and high order sliding mode control,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol.
357, no.
15, pp.
10244–10261, 2020.
[36] A.
Levant and L.
Fridman, “Accuracy of homogeneous sliding modes in the presence of fast actuators,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
55, pp.
810–814, March 2010.
[37] I.
Boiko, M.
Castellanos, and L.
Fridman, “Analysis of response of second-order sliding mode controllers to external inputs in frequency domain,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control: IFAC-Affiliated Journal, vol.
18, no.
4-5, pp.
502–514, 2008.
[38] I.
Boiko, M.
Castellanos, and L.
Fridman, “Describing function analysis of second-order sliding mode observers,” International Journal of Systems Science, vol.
38, no.
10, pp.
817–824, 2007.
[39] H.
K.
Khalil, Nonlinear Systems.
New York: Macmillan, 1992.
[40] P.
Apkarian and R.
J.
Adams, “Advanced gain-scheduling techniques for uncertain systems,” in Advances in linear matrix inequality methods in control, pp.
209–228, SIAM, 2000.
[41] D.
P.
Atherton, Nonlinear control engineering.
London: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1975.
[42] R.
C.
Booton, “Nonlinear control systems with random inputs,” IRE Transactions on Circuit Theory, vol.
1, no.
1, pp.
9–18, 1954.
[43] J.
Loeb, “Recent advances in nonlinear servo theory,” Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, vol.
76, no.
8, pp.
1281– 1288, 1954.

[44] I. M. Boiko, “On loeb’s criterion of orbital stability of self-excited periodic motions,” in 2018 15th International Workshop on Variable Structure Systems (VSS), pp. 464–469, IEEE, 2018.   
[45] C. A. Mart´ınez-Fuentes, U. Perez-Ventura, and L. Fridman, “Chattering ´ analysis for lipschitz continuous sliding-mode controllers,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol. 31, no. 9, pp. 3779–3794, 2021.
