[5] H.
Liu, Y.
Mo, and K.
H.
Johansson, “Active detection against replay attack: A survey on watermark design for cyber-physical systems,” in Safety, Security and Privacy for Cyber-Physical Systems.
Springer, 2021, pp.
145–171.
[6] H.
S.
Sanchez, D.
Rotondo, T.
Escobet, V.
Puig, J.
Saludes, and ´ J.
Quevedo, “Detection of replay attacks in cyber-physical systems using a frequency-based signature,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol.
356, no.
5, pp.
2798–2824, 2019.
[7] D.
Zhang, Q.-G.
Wang, G.
Feng, Y.
Shi, and A.
V.
Vasilakos, “A survey on attack detection, estimation and control of industrial cyber–physical systems,” ISA transactions, vol.
116, pp.
1–16, 2021.
[8] W.
Lucia, G.
Franze, and B.
Sinopoli, “A supervisor-based control \` architecture for constrained cyber-physical systems subject to network attacks,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
10, no.
3, pp.
1184–1194, 2022.
[9] Dukosi, “Technology and products,” https://www.dukosi.com/ technology-products, accessed: Sep.
25, 2024.
[10] G.
Y.
Dayanikli, R.
R.
Hatch, R.
M.
Gerdes, H.
Wang, and R.
Zane, “Electromagnetic sensor and actuator attacks on power converters for electric vehicles,” in 2020 IEEE Security and Privacy Workshops (SPW).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
98–103.
[11] H.
S.
Mavikumbure, V.
Cobilean, C.
S.
Wickramasinghe, B.
J.
Varghese, B.
Carlson, C.
Rieger, T.
Pennington, and M.
Manic, “Cy-phy ads: Cyber physical anomaly detection framework for ev charging systems,” IEEE Transactions on Transportation Electrification, 2024.
[12] R.
Liu, J.
Gao, J.
Zhang, D.
Meng, and Z.
Lin, “Investigating bilevel optimization for learning and vision from a unified perspective: A survey and beyond,” IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol.
44, no.
12, pp.
10 045–10 067, 2021.
[13] W.
Jin, Z.
Wang, Z.
Yang, and S.
Mou, “Pontryagin differentiable programming: An end-to-end learning and control framework,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
33, pp.
7979–7992, 2020.
[14] H.
E.
Perez, X.
Hu, and S.
J.
Moura, “Optimal charging of batteries via a single particle model with electrolyte and thermal dynamics,” in 2016 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2016, pp.
4000– 4005.
[15] S.
Park, D.
Zhang, and S.
Moura, “Hybrid electrochemical modeling with recurrent neural networks for li-ion batteries,” in 2017 American control conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
3777–3782.

[16] X.-G.
Yang, Y.
Leng, G.
Zhang, S.
Ge, and C.-Y.
Wang, “Modeling of lithium plating induced aging of lithium-ion batteries: Transition from linear to nonlinear aging,” Journal of Power Sources, vol.
360, pp.
28–40, 2017.
[17] M.
B.
Pinson and M.
Z.
Bazant, “Theory of sei formation in rechargeable batteries: capacity fade, accelerated aging and lifetime prediction,” Journal of the Electrochemical Society, vol.
160, no.
2, p.
A243, 2012.
[18] S.
Moura, “SPMeT,” https://github.com/scott-moura/SPMeT, 2016.
