# REFERENCES

[1] M.
S.
Ibrahim, W.
Dong, and Q.
Yang, “Machine learning driven smart electric power systems: Current trends and new perspectives,” Applied Energy, vol.
272, p.
115237, 2020.
[2] Z.
Zhang, D.
Zhang, and R.
C.
Qiu, “Deep reinforcement learning for power system applications: An overview,” CSEE Journal of Power and Energy Systems, vol.
6, no.
1, pp.
213–225, 2019.
[3] M.
Glavic, R.
Fonteneau, and D.
Ernst, “Reinforcement learning for electric power system decision and control: Past considerations and perspectives,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
50, no.
1, pp.
6918–6927, 2017.
[4] A.
S.
Mohamed and D.
Kundur, “On the use of reinforcement learning for attacking and defending load frequency control,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol.
15, no.
3, pp.
3262–3277, 2024.
[5] T.
L.
Vu, S.
Mukherjee, R.
Huang, and Q.
Huang, “Barrier functionbased safe reinforcement learning for emergency control of power systems,” in 2021 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
3652–3657.
[6] D.
Tabas and B.
Zhang, “Computationally efficient safe reinforcement learning for power systems,” in 2022 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2022, pp.
3303–3310.
[7] W.
Cui, J.
Li, and B.
Zhang, “Decentralized safe reinforcement learning for inverter-based voltage control,” Electric Power Systems Research, vol.
211, p.
108609, 2022.
[8] L.
C.
Saikia, J.
Nanda, and S.
Mishra, “Performance comparison of several classical controllers in agc for multi-area interconnected thermal system,” International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems, vol.
33, no.
3, pp.
394–401, 2011.
[9] Y.
L.
Abdel-Magid and M.
A.
Abido, “Agc tuning of interconnected reheat thermal systems with particle swarm optimization,” in 10th IEEE International Conference on Electronics, Circuits and Systems, 2003., vol.
1.
IEEE, 2003, pp.
376–379.
[10] N.
R.
Babu, S.
K.
Bhagat, L.
C.
Saikia, and T.
Chiranjeevi, “Application of hybrid crow-search with particle swarm optimization algorithm in agc studies of multi-area systems,” Journal of Discrete Mathematical Sciences and Cryptography, vol.
23, no.
2, pp.
429–439, 2020.
[11] P.
C.
Pradhan, R.
K.
Sahu, and S.
Panda, “Firefly algorithm optimized fuzzy pid controller for agc of multi-area multi-source power systems with upfc and smes,” Engineering Science and Technology, an International Journal, vol.
19, no.
1, pp.
338–354, 2016.
[12] S.
Panda and N.
K.
