Harmouche, and Y.
Chitour, “Higher order supertwisting for perturbed chains of integrators,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
62, pp.
3588 – 3593, 2017.
[16] E.
Cruz-Zavala and J.
A.
Moreno, “Homogeneous high order sliding mode design: A lyapunov approach,” Automatica, vol.
80, pp.
232–238, 2017.
[17] J.
A.
Moreno, E.
Cruz-Zavala, and A.
Mercado-Uribe, “Discontinuous ´ integral control for systems with arbitrary relative degree,” in Variable-Structure Systems and Sliding-Mode Control, pp.
29–69, Springer, 2020.

[18] C.
B.
Panathula, A.
Rosales, Y.
B.
Shtessel, and L.
M.
Fridman, “Closing gaps for aircraft attitude higher order sliding mode control certification via practical stability margins identification,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
26, no.
6, pp.
2020–2034, 2017.
[19] A.
Levant, “Chattering analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
55, no.
6, pp.
1380–1389, 2010.
[20] Y.
B.
Shtessel and Y.-J.
Lee, “New approach to chattering analysis in systems with sliding modes,” in Proceedings of 35th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, vol.
4, (Kobe, Japan), pp.
4014–4019, IEEE, 1996.
https://doi.org/10.1109/CDC.1996.577355.
[21] I.
Castillo and L.
B.
Freidovich, “Describing-function-based analysis to tune parameters of chattering reducing approximations of sliding mode controllers,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
95, p.
104230, 2020.
[22] H.
Lee and V.
Utkin, “Chattering suppression methods in sliding mode control systems,” Annual reviews in control, vol.
31, no.
2, pp.
179–188, 2007.
[23] A.
Rosales and I.
Boiko, “Disturbance attenuation for systems with second-order sliding modes via linear compensators,” IET Control Theory & Applications, vol.
9, no.
4, pp.
526–537, 2015.
[24] L.
Fridman, “An averaging approach to chattering,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
46, no.
8, pp.
1260–1265, 2001.
[25] I.
Boiko, L.
Fridman, A.
Pisano, and E.
Usai, “Analysis of chattering in systems with second-order sliding modes,” IEEE transactions on Automatic control, vol.
52, no.
11, pp.
2085–2102, 2007.
[26] I.
Boiko, “Oscillations and transfer properties of relay servo systems—the locus of a perturbed relay system approach,” Automatica, vol.
41, no.
4, pp.
677–683, 2005.
[27] I.
Boiko, Discontinuous control systems: frequency-domain analysis and design.
Boston: Birkhauser, 2009.¨   
[28] A.
Gelb and W.
E.
Vander Velde, Multiple-input describing functions and nonlinear system design.
New York: McGraw-Hill, 1968.
[29] I.
Boiko, L.
Fridman, and M.
Castellanos, “Analysis of second-order sliding-mode algorithms in the frequency domain,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
49, no.
6, pp.
946–950, 2004.
[30] I.
Boiko and L.
Fridman, “Analysis of chattering in continuous sliding mode controllers,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
50, no.
9, pp.
1442–1446, 2005.
[31] A.
Rosales, Y.
Shtessel, L.
Fridman, and C.
