# REFERENCES

[1] V. Utkin, Sliding Modes in Control and Optimization. Springer, 1992.   
[2] A. Levant, “Higher-order sliding modes, differentiation and outputfeedback control,” International Journal of Control, vol. 76, no. 9-10, pp. 924–941, 2003.   
[3] C. Edwards and S. Spurgeon, Sliding Mode Control: Theory and Applications. CRC Press, 1998.   
[4] J.-J. Slotine and W. Li, Applied Nonlinear Control. Prentice Hall, 1991.   
[5] H. Wen, Z. Liang, H. Zhou, X. Li, B. Yao, Z. Mao, and L. Lian, “Adaptive sliding mode control for unknown uncertain non-linear systems with variable coefficients and disturbances,” Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation, vol. 121, p. 107225, 2023.   
[6] J. Zhu and K. Veluvolu, “Enhanced sliding variable-based robust adaptive control for canonical nonlinear system with unknown dynamic and control gain,” Mathematics, vol. 13, no. 6, p. 976, 2025.   
[7] L. Wan, S. Smith, Y.-J. Pan, and E. Witrant, “Adaptive task space nonsingular terminal super-twisting sliding mode control of a 7-dof robotic manipulator,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.13056, 2025.   
[8] M. Karahan, M. Inal, and C. Kasnakoglu, “Fault tolerant super twisting sliding mode control of a quadrotor uav using control allocation,” International Journal of Robotics and Control Systems, vol. 3, no. 2, p. 270–285, Apr. 2023. [Online]. Available: http: //dx.doi.org/10.31763/ijrcs.v3i2.994   
[9] M. M. Mustafa, C. D. Crane, and I. Hamarash, “Adaptive-sliding mode trajectory control of robot manipulators with uncertainties,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03102   
[10] X. Zhang, Y. Li, S. Xiong, X. Liu, and R. Guo, “A robust cooperative control protocol based on global sliding mode manifold for heterogeneous nonlinear multi-agent systems under the switching topology,” Actuators, vol. 14, no. 2, p. 57, 2025.   
[11] M. Karim, I. Khaloufi, J. Gaber, and M. Rachik, “Optimal feedback stabilization of fractional output for a class of inhomogeneous distributed semi-linear systems with time-varying delays,” to appear, 2025.   
[12] S. Laghrouche, F. Ahmed, M. El Bagdouri, M. Wack, J. Gaber, and M. Becherif, “Modeling and identification of a mechatronic exhaust gas recirculation actuator of an internal combustion engine,” in 2010 American Control Conference. IEEE, 2010, pp. 2242–2247.
