converter,” IEEE Trans.
Energy Convers., vol.
38, no.
4, pp.
2843-2859, Dec.
2023.
[11] G.
Wang, L.
Fu, Q.
Hu, C.
Liu, and Y.
Ma, “Transient synchronization stability of grid-forming converter during grid fault considering transient switched operation mode,” IEEE Trans.
Sustain.
Energy., vol.
14, no.
3, pp.
1504-1515, Jul.
2023.
[12] Y.
Liu, H.
Geng, M.
Huang, and X.
Zha, “Dynamic current limiting of grid-forming converters for transient synchronization stability enhancement,” IEEE Trans.
Ind.
Appl., vol.
60, no.
2, pp.
2238 - 2248, Mar.
2024.
[13] E.
Rokrok, T.
Qoria, A.
Bruyere, B.
Francois, and X.
Guillaud, “Transient stability assessment and enhancement of grid-forming converters embedding current reference saturation as current limiting strategy,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol.
37, no.
2, pp.
1519-1531, Mar.
2022.
[14] X.
Lyu, W.
Du, S.
M.
Mohiuddin, S.
P.
Nandanoori and M.
Elizondo, “Criteria for Grid-Forming Inverters Transitioning Between Current Limiting Mode and Normal Operation,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol.
39, no.
4, pp.
6107-6110, Jul.
2024.
[15] X.
He, H.
Geng, R.
Li and B.
C.
Pal, “Transient Stability Analysis and Enhancement of Renewable Energy Conversion System During LVRT,” IEEE Trans.
Sustain.
Energy., vol.
11, no.
3, pp.
1612-1623, Jul.
2020.
[16] X.
Wang, H.
Wu, X.
Wang, L.
Dall, and J.
Kwon, “Transient Stability Analysis of Grid-Following VSCs Considering Voltage-Dependent Current Injection During Fault Ride-Through,” IEEE Trans.
Energy Convers., vol.
37, no.
4, pp.
2749-2760, Dec.
2022.
[17] Q.
Hu, L.
Fu, F.
Ma, G.
Wang, C.
Liu and Y.
Ma, “Impact of LVRT Control on Transient Synchronizing Stability of PLL-Based Wind Turbine Converter Connected to High Impedance AC Grid,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol.
38, no.
6, pp.
5445-5458, Nov.
2023.
[18] Q.
Lai, C.
Shen, and D.
Li, “Dynamic modeling and stability analysis for repeated LVRT process of wind turbine based on switched system theory,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol.
40, no.
3, pp.
2711-2723, May.
2025.
[19] L.
Wu, W.
Zhao, M.
Xu, P.
Xu, F.
Li, Y.
Yang, and Y.
Pan.
“Mechanism analysis and suppression of repeated voltage fluctuation considering fault ride through characteristics of the wind turbine,” J.
Global Energy Interconn., vol.
5, no.
3, pp.
290-297, May.
2022.
[20] T.
Lan, D.
Sun, S.
Xu, and B.
