# References

[1] Zijad Aganovi and Zoran Gaji. Linear Optimal Control of Bilinear Systems with Applications to Singular Perturbations and Weak Coupling. Springer, 1995.   
[2] Andrea Bisoffi, Claudio De Persis, and Pietro Tesi. Databased stabilization of unknown bilinear systems with guaranteed basin of attraction. Systems and Control Letters, 145:104788, 2020.   
[3] Andrea Bisoffi, Claudio De Persis, and Pietro Tesi. Datadriven control via Petersen’s lemma. Automatica, 145:110537, 2022.   
[4] Daniel Bruder, Xun Fu, R. Brent Gillespie, C. David Remy, and Ram Vasudevan. Data-driven control of soft robots using Koopman operator theory. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 37(3):948–961, 2021.   
[5] Marko Budiˇsi´c, Ryan Mohr, and Igor Mezi´c. Applied Koopmanism. Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science, 22(4):047510, 12 2012.   
[6] Mert Eyuboglu, Robin Str¨asser, Frank Allg¨ower, and Alireza Karimi. Koopman-based lpv control: A data-driven approach using iqcs. 2025.   
[7] Xingyun Fu and Keyou You. Direct data-driven stabilization of nonlinear affine systems via the Koopman operator. In 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 2668–2673, 2022.   
[8] Debdipta Goswami and Derek A. Paley. Bilinearization, reachability, and optimal control of control-affine nonlinear systems: A Koopman spectral approach. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 67(6):2715–2728, 2022.   
[9] Guido Herrmann, Matthew C. Turner, and Ian Postlethwaite. Linear matrix inequalities in control, pages 123–142. Springer London, London, 2007.   
[10] Bowen Huang, Xu Ma, and Umesh Vaidya. Feedback stabilization using Koopman operator. In 2018 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 6434– 6439, 2018.
