# REFERENCES

[1] Y. Gu, T. C. Green, “Power system stability with a high penetration of inverter-based resources,” Proc. IEEE., vol. 111, no. 7, pp. 832-853, Jul. 2022.   
[2] Y. Li, Y. Gu and T. C. Green, “Revisiting Grid-Forming and Grid-Following Inverters: A Duality Theory,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 37, no. 6, pp. 4541-4554, Nov. 2022.   
[3] Q. Hu, L. Fu, F. Ma, and F. Ji, “Large Signal Synchronizing Instability of PLL-Based VSC Connected to Weak AC Grid,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 3220-3229, Jul. 2019.   
[4] Joint NERC and Texas RE Staff, “2021 Odessa disturbance,” NERC, Atlanta, GA, USA, Dec. 2022.   
[5] Australian Energy Market Operator, “Preliminary report - Black system event in south Australia on 28 September 2016,” AEMO, Australia, Oct. 2016.   
[6] National Energy System Operator, “Technical report on the events of 9”, National Grid ESO, United Kingdom, Aug. 2019.   
[7] L. Huang, L. Zhang, H. Xin, Z. Wang, and D. Gan, “Current limiting leads to virtual power angle synchronous instability of droop-controlled converters,” in Proc. IEEE PES Gener. Meeting, Boston, MA, USA, Jul. 2016, pp: 1-5.   
[8] L. Huang, H. Xin, Z. Wang, L. Zhang, K. Wu, and J. Hu, “Transient stability analysis and control design of droop-controlled voltage source converters considering current limitation,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid., vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 578-591, Jan. 2019.   
[9] K. Zhuang, H. Xin, P. Hu, and Z. Wang, “Current saturation analysis and anti-windup control design of grid-forming voltage source converter,” IEEE Trans. Energy Convers., vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 2790-2802, Dec. 2022.   
[10] Y. Li, Y. Lu, J. Yang, X. Yuan, R. Yang, S. Yang, H. Ye, and Z. Du, “Transient stability of power synchronization loop based grid forming
