In 2022 European Control Conference (ECC), pages 552–559, 2022.
[25] Robin Str¨asser, Manuel Schaller, Julian Berberich, Karl Worthmann, and Frank Allg¨ower.
Kernel-based error bounds of bilinear Koopman surrogate models for nonlinear datadriven control, 2025.
[26] Robin Str¨asser, Julian Berberich, and Frank Allg¨ower.
Robust data-driven control for nonlinear systems using the Koopman operator.
IFAC-PapersOnLine, 56(2):2257–2262, 2023.
22nd IFAC World Congress.
[27] Robin Str¨asser, Julian Berberich, and Frank Allg¨ower.
Koopman-based control using sum-of-squares optimization: Improved stability guarantees and data efficiency.
European Journal of Control, page 101286, 2025.
[28] Robin Str¨asser, Julian Berberich, Manuel Schaller, Karl Worthmann, and Frank Allg¨ower.
Koopman-based control of nonlinear systems with closed-loop guarantees.
at - Automatisierungstechnik, 73(6):413–428, May 2025.

[29] Robin Str¨asser, Manuel Schaller, Karl Worthmann, Julian Berberich, and Frank Allg¨ower. Koopman-based feedback design with stability guarantees. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pages 1–16, 2024.   
[30] Amit Surana. Koopman operator based observer synthesis for control-affine nonlinear systems. In 2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 6492– 6499, 2016.   
[31] Umesh Vaidya. When Koopman meets Hamilton and Jacobi. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pages 1–16, 2025.   
[32] Mario Eduardo Villanueva, Colin N. Jones, and Boris Houska. Towards global optimal control via Koopman lifts. Automatica, 132:109610, 2021.   
[33] Bowen Yi and Ian R. Manchester. On the equivalence of contraction and Koopman approaches for nonlinear stability and control. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 69(7):4336–4351, 2024.   
[34] Weiwei Zhan, Zhiqiang Miao, Hui Zhang, Yanjie Chen, Zheng-Guang Wu, Wei He, and Yaonan Wang. Resilient formation control with Koopman operator for networked NMRs under denial-of-service attacks. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, 54(11):7065– 7078, 2024.
