[11] Bowen Huang, Xu Ma, and Umesh Vaidya.
Data-driven nonlinear stabilization Using Koopman operator, pages 313– 334.
Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2020.
[12] Xinyuan Jiang, Yan Li, and Daning Huang.
Modularized bilinear Koopman operator for modeling and predicting transients of microgrids.
IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 15(5):5219–5231, 2024.
[13] Hassan K.
Khalil.
Nonlinear Systems.
Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 3rd edition, 1996.
[14] B.
O.
Koopman.
Hamiltonian systems and transformation in Hilbert space.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 17(5):315–318, 1931.
[15] Milan Korda and Igor Mezi´c.
On convergence of extended dynamic mode decomposition to the Koopman operator.
Journal of Nonlinear Science, 28(2):687–710, November 2017.
[16] J.
Lofberg.
YALMIP : a toolbox for modeling and optimization in MATLAB.
In 2004 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 284–289, 2004.
[17] Giorgos Mamakoukas, Stefano Di Cairano, and Abraham P.
Vinod.
Robust model predictive control with data-driven Koopman operators.
In 2022 American Control Conference (ACC), pages 3885–3892, 2022.
[18] Waqas A.
Manzoor, Samir Rawashdeh, and Alireza Mohammadi.
Vehicular applications of Koopman operator theory—a survey.
IEEE Access, 11:25917–25931, 2023.
[19] Alexandre Mauroy and Igor Mezi´c.
Global stability analysis using the eigenfunctions of the Koopman operator.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 61(11):3356–3369, 2016.
[20] Alexandre Mauroy, Y Susuki, and Igor Mezic.
Koopman operator in systems and control.
Springer, 2020.
[21] Yuna Oh, Myoung Hoon Lee, and Jun Moon.
Koopmanbased control system for quadrotors in noisy environments.
IEEE Access, 12:71675–71684, 2024.
[22] Jie Pan, Dongyue Li, Jian Wang, Pengfei Zhang, Jinyan Shao, and Junzhi Yu.
Autogeneration of mission-oriented robot controllers using Bayesian-based Koopman operator.
IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 40:903–918, 2024.
[23] P.
Rapisarda, Henk J.
van Waarde, and M.K.
C¸ amlibel.
Orthogonal polynomial bases for data-driven analysis and control of continuous-time systems.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 69(7):4307–4319, 2024.
[24] Subhrajit Sinha, Sai Pushpak Nandanoori, Jan Drgona, and Draguna Vrabie.
Data-driven stabilization of discretetime control-affine nonlinear systems: A Koopman operator approach.
