Al-Hassanawy, “Iterative optimization of a bi-level formulation to identify severe contingencies in power transmission systems,” International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems, vol.
145, p.
108670, 2023.

[12] M.
Zhou, C.
Liu, A.
A.
Jahromi, D.
Kundur, J.
Wu, and C.
Long, “Revealing vulnerability of n-1 secure power systems to coordinated cyber-physical attacks,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol.
38, no.
2, pp.
1044–1057, 2023.
[13] A.
Abdolahi, N.
Taghizadegan, M.
R.
Banaei, and J.
Salehi, “A reliability-based optimal µ-pmu placement scheme for efficient observability enhancement of smart distribution grids under various contingencies,” IET Science, Measurement & Technology, vol.
15, no.
8, pp.
663– 680, 2021.
[14] M.
Abdelmalak and M.
Benidris, “Enhancing power system operational resilience against wildfires,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol.
58, no.
2, pp.
1611–1621, 2022.
[15] H.
Varmaziari and M.
Dehghani, “Cyber attack detection in pmu networks exploiting the combination of machine learning and state estimation-based methods,” in 2021 11th Smart Grid Conference (SGC), pp.
1–6, 2021.
[16] Y.
Yu, Y.
Gao, Y.
Li, and Y.
Yan, “Interpretable data-driven contingency classification for real-time corrective security-constrained economic dispatch,” IET Renewable Power Generation, vol.
18, no.
3, pp.
489–501, 2024.
[17] D.
T.
Lagos and N.
D.
Hatziargyriou, “Data-driven frequency dynamic unit commitment for island systems with high res penetration,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol.
36, no.
5, pp.
4699–4711, 2021.
[18] H.
Golpˆıra, H.
Bevrani, A.
R.
Messina, and B.
Francois, “A datadriven under frequency load shedding scheme in power systems,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol.
38, no.
2, pp.
1138–1150, 2022.
[19] X.
Liu, Y.
Min, L.
Chen, X.
Zhang, and C.
Feng, “Data-driven transient stability assessment based on kernel regression and distance metric learning,” Journal of Modern Power Systems and Clean Energy, vol.
9, no.
1, pp.
27–36, 2021.
[20] X.
Kong, Z.
Chen, W.
Liu, K.
Ning, L.
Zhang, S.
M.
Marier, Y.
Liu, Y.
Chen, and F.
Xia, “Deep learning for time series forecasting: a survey,” International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Feb.
2025.
[21] Y.
Boddu and A.
Manimaran, “Design of an iterative method for time series forecasting using temporal attention and hybrid deep learning architectures,” IEEE Access, vol.
13, pp.
25683–25703, 2025.
[22] J.
D.
Glover and M.
S.
Sarma, Power System Analysis and Design.
Brooks Cole, Thomson Learning, Inc., 3rd ed., 2001.
[23] V.
V.
Babu, J.
P.
Roselyn, C.
Nithya, and P.
