[11] Astghik Hakobyan and Insoon Yang.
Wasserstein Distributionally Robust Control of Partially Observable Linear Systems: Tractable $\mathrm { A p \mathrm { - } }$ proximation and Performance Guarantee.
In 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control, pages 4800–4807, 2022.
[12] Bingyan Han.
Distributionally robust Kalman filtering with volatility uncertainty.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2024.
[13] Taylan Kargin, Joudi Hajar, Vikrant Malik, and Babak Hassibi.
Infinite-Horizon Distributionally Robust Regret-Optimal Control.
In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 23187–23214, 2024.
[14] Kihyun Kim and Insoon Yang.
Distributional robustness in minimax linear quadratic control with Wasserstein distance.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 61(2):458–483, 2023.
[15] Georgios Kotsalis, Guanghui Lan, and Arkadi S Nemirovski.
Convex optimization for finite-horizon robust covariance control of linear stochastic systems.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 59(1):296–319, 2021.
[16] Daniel Kuhn, Peyman Mohajerin Esfahani, Viet Anh Nguyen, and Soroosh Shafieezadeh-Abadeh.
Wasserstein distributionally robust optimization: Theory and applications in machine learning.
In Operations research & management science in the age of analytics, pages 130–166.
Informs, 2019.
[17] David G Luenberger.
Optimization by vector space methods.
John Wiley & Sons, 1997.
[18] Izumi Masubuchi, Atsumi Ohara, and Nobuhide Suda.
LMI-based controller synthesis: a unified formulation and solution.
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control: IFAC-Affiliated Journal, 8(8):669–686, 1998.
[19] Peyman Mohajerin Esfahani and Daniel Kuhn.
Data-driven distributionally robust optimization using the Wasserstein metric: Performance guarantees and tractable reformulations.
Mathematical Programming, 171(1):115–166, 2018.
[20] Viet Anh Nguyen, Soroosh Shafieezadeh-Abadeh, Daniel Kuhn, and Peyman Mohajerin Esfahani.
Bridging bayesian and minimax mean square error estimation via Wasserstein distributionally robust optimization.
Mathematics of Operations Research, 48(1):1–37, 2023.
[21] C.
Scherer, P.
Gahinet, and M.
Chilali.
Multiobjective output-feedback control via LMI optimization.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 42(7):896–911, 1997.
[22] Carsten Scherer.
