# 8. REFERENCES

[1] Sepp Hochreiter and J¨urgen Schmidhuber, “Long short-term memory,” Neural Computation, vol.
9, no.
8, pp.
1735–1780, 11 1997.
[2] Kyunghyun Cho, Bart van Merri¨enboer, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Yoshua Bengio, “On the properties of neural machine translation: Encoder–decoder approaches,” in Proceedings of SSST-8, Eighth Workshop on Syntax, Semantics and Structure in Statistical Translation, Dekai Wu, Marine Carpuat, Xavier Carreras, and Eva Maria Vecchi, Eds., Doha, Qatar, Oct.
2014, pp.
103–111, Association for Computational Linguistics.
[3] Marco Comunit\`a, Christian J.
Steinmetz, and Joshua D.
Reiss, “Differentiable black-box and gray-box modeling of nonlinear audio effects,” Frontiers in Signal Processing, vol.
Volume 5 - 2025, 2025.
[4] Marco A.
Mart´ınez Ram´ırez, Emmanouil Benetos, and Joshua D.
Reiss, “Deep learning for black-box modeling of audio effects,” Applied Sciences, vol.
10, no.
2, 2020.
[5] Alec Wright, Eero-Pekka Damsk¨agg, Lauri Juvela, and Vesa V¨alim¨aki, “Real-time guitar amplifier emulation with deep learning,” Applied Sciences, vol.
10, no.
3, 2020.
[6] Otto Mikkonen, Alec Wright, and Vesa V¨alim¨aki, “Sampling the user controls in neural modeling of audio devices,” EURASIP J.
Audio Speech Music.
Process., vol.
2024, pp.
26, 2024.
[7] Yen-Tung Yeh, Wen-Yi Hsiao, and Yi-Hsuan Yang, “Hyper Recurrent Neural Network: Condition Mechanisms for Black-Box Audio Effect Modeling,” in Proceedings of the 27-th Int.
Conf.
on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx24), E.
De Sena and J.
Mannall, Eds., Sept.
2024, pp.
97–104.
[8] Alec Wright, Eero-Pekka Damsk¨agg, and Vesa Valimaki, “Real-time black-box modelling with recurrent neural networks,” in Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx2019), Sept.
2019, pp.
1–8.
[9] Enrico Terzi, Fabio Bonassi, Marcello Farina, and Riccardo Scattolini, “Learning model predictive control with long shortterm memory networks,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
31, no.
18, pp.
8877–8896, 2021.
[10] Fabio Bonassi, Marcello Farina, and Riccardo Scattolini, “On the stability properties of gated recurrent units neural networks,” Syst.
Control.
Lett., vol.
157, pp.
105049, 2020.
[11] Liang Jin, P.N.
Nikiforuk, and M.M.
Gupta, “Absolute stability conditions for discrete-time recurrent neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol.
5, no.
6, pp.
