# B.3 Proof of Proposition 2

Similar to the proof in the Appendix B.2, we here mainly prove feasible regions of $u , y , \sigma _ { y }$ are equivalent for (26) and (28). Then, with the same objective function, their optimal solutions are also the same. The proof for the uniqueness of the optimal solution utilizes the strong convexity of the objective function of (26) following the

same procedure in Appendix B.2. We omit the proof for the uniqueness here. We recall that we have $\bar { H } _ { 1 } =$ co $\begin{array} { r } { \mathrm { l } ( U _ { \mathrm { P } } , Y _ { \mathrm { P } } , U _ { \mathrm { F } } ) = \left[ \begin{array} { c c } { L _ { 1 1 } } & { \mathbb { 0 } } \\ { L _ { 2 1 } } & { L _ { 2 2 } } \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array} { c } { Q _ { 1 } } \\ { Q _ { 2 } } \end{array} \right] } \end{array}$ from the LQ decomposition of $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ . As we assume $H _ { \mathrm { d } }$ has full row rank, the matrix $\left[ { \begin{array} { l l } { L _ { 1 1 } } & { \mathbb { 0 } } \\ { L _ { 2 1 } } & { L _ { 2 2 } } \end{array} } \right]$ is invertible.

Let $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ 1 and $g _ { 1 }$ be a set of feasible solution for (28). Substituting (28b) into (28a) leads to

$$
\hat {H} g _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c c c c} L _ {1 1} & \mathbb {0} & \mathbb {0} & \mathbb {0} \\ L _ {2 1} & L _ {2 2} & \mathbb {0} & \mathbb {0} \\ L _ {3 1} & L _ {3 2} ^ {*} & L _ {3 3} & L _ {3 2} ^ {\prime} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c} Q _ {1} g _ {1} \\ Q _ {2} g _ {1} \\ \mathbb {0} \\ \mathbb {0} \end{array} \right] = H _ {\mathrm{sc}} ^ {*} g _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {\mathrm{ini}} \\ y _ {\mathrm{ini}} + \sigma_ {y _ {1}} \\ u _ {1} \\ y _ {1} \end{array} \right],
$$

thus, $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ and $g _ { 1 }$ is also a feasible solution for (26). We next choose a feasible solution $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ and $g _ { 1 }$ of (26). We can construct $\tilde { g } _ { 1 }$ as

$$
\begin{array}{l} \tilde {g} _ {1} = H _ {1} ^ {\dagger} \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {\mathrm{ini}} \\ y _ {\mathrm{ini}} + \sigma_ {y _ {1}} \\ u _ {1} \end{array} \right] \\ = \left[ \begin{array}{c c} Q _ {1} ^ {\mathsf {T}} & Q _ {2} ^ {\mathsf {T}} \end{array} \right] \left[ \begin{array}{c c} L _ {1 1} & \mathbb {0} \\ L _ {2 1} & L _ {2 2} \end{array} \right] ^ {- 1} \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {\text {ini}} \\ y _ {\text {ini}} + \sigma_ {y _ {1}} \\ u _ {1} \end{array} \right], \\ \end{array}
$$

so that $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ and g˜1 is an optimal solution of (28). Since co $\lvert ( Q _ { 1 } , Q _ { 2 } , Q _ { 3 } , Q ^ { * } )$ has orthonormal rows, we have
