# B.2 Proof of Proposition 1

As (19) and (21) are equivalent directly from construction, we here mainly prove the equivalence of (21) and (22). It is obvious that (21) and (22) have the same objective function and it only contains decision variables $u , y$ and $\sigma _ { y } .$ Thus, we show that (21) and (22) provide the same unique optimal solution $\boldsymbol { \dot { u } ^ { * } } , \boldsymbol { y ^ { * } }$ and $\sigma _ { y } ^ { * }$ by proving:

(1) Feasible regions of $u , y , \sigma _ { y }$ are the same for (21) and (22): if $u , y , \sigma _ { y } , g$ is feasible to (22), then the same $u , y , \sigma _ { y } , g$ is also feasible for (21). Conversely, given any feasible solution $u , y , \sigma _ { y } , g$ to (21), there exists a vector $\tilde { g }$ such that $u , y , \sigma _ { y } , \tilde { g }$ is feasible to (22).

(2) The optimal solution of $u , y , \sigma _ { y }$ is unique for (21). We assume $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } } , g _ { 1 }$ is a feasible solution for (22). Substituting the orthogonal decomposition (B.2) of $Y _ { \mathrm { F } }$ into (22a), we have

$$
H _ {\mathrm{d}} g _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} U _ {\mathrm{P}} \\ Y _ {\mathrm{P}} \\ U _ {\mathrm{F}} \\ M + Y _ {\mathrm{F}} (I - \Pi_ {1}) \end{array} \right] g _ {1} = H _ {\mathrm{s}} ^ {*} g _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {\mathrm{ini}} \\ y _ {\mathrm{ini}} + \sigma_ {y _ {1}} \\ u _ {1} \\ y _ {1} \end{array} \right],
$$

where we have applied the fact that $( I - \Pi _ { 1 } ) g _ { 1 } = 0$ from (22b). Thus, the set of variables $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ and $g _ { 1 }$ is also a feasible solution for (21).

We next assume $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ and $g _ { 1 }$ is a feasible solution for (21). We define $\tilde { g } _ { 1 } = H _ { 1 } ^ { \dagger } \mathrm { c o l } ( u _ { \mathrm { i n i } } , y _ { \mathrm { i n i } } + \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } } , u _ { 1 } )$ , which satisfies $y _ { 1 } = Y _ { \mathrm { F } } \tilde { g } _ { 1 }$ from (B.3). We first verify that $\tilde { g } _ { 1 }$ , together with $u _ { 1 } , y _ { 1 } , \sigma _ { y _ { 1 } }$ , satisfies (22a):

$$
H _ {\mathrm{d}} \tilde {g} _ {1} = \left[ \begin{array}{c} H _ {1} \\ Y _ {\mathrm{F}} \end{array} \right] H _ {1} ^ {\dagger} \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {\mathrm{ini}} \\ y _ {\mathrm{ini}} + \sigma_ {y _ {1}} \\ u _ {1} \end{array} \right] = \left[ \begin{array}{c} u _ {\mathrm{ini}} \\ y _ {\mathrm{ini}} + \sigma_ {y _ {1}} \\ u _ {1} \\ y _ {1} \end{array} \right].
$$
