8.
S.
Zhuo, R.
Biddle, J.
D.
Recomendable, G.
Russello, and D.
M.
Lottridge, “Eyes on the phish(er): Towards understanding users’ email processing pattern and mental models in phishing detection,” in Proceedings of the 2024 European Symposium on Usable Security, EuroUSEC 2024, KarlstadSweden, 30 September 2024- 1 October 2024 (F.
Karegar and A.
Farooq, eds.), pp.
15–29, ACM, 2024.
9.
NSW Bushfire Inquiry, “Final report of the NSW Bushfire inquiry.” https://www.dpc.ns w.gov.au/assets/dpc-nsw-gov-au/publications/NSW-Bushfire-Inquiry-1630/ Final-Report-of-the-NSW-Bushfire-Inquiry.pdf, 2020.
10.
M.
S.
Islam, A.-H.
M.
Kamal, A.
Kabir, D.
L.
Southern, S.
H.
Khan, S.
M.
Hasan, T.
Sarkar, S.
Sharmin, S.
Das, T.
Roy, et al., “Covid-19 vaccine rumors and conspiracy theories: The need for cognitive inoculation against misinformation to improve vaccine adherence,” PloS one, vol.
16, no.
5, p.
e0251605, 2021.
11.
E.
Pertwee, C.
Simas, and H.
J.
Larson, “An epidemic of uncertainty: Rumors, conspiracy theories and vaccine hesitancy,” Nature medicine, vol.
28, no.
3, pp.
456–459, 2022.
12.
Edelman, “2023 Edelman Trust Barometer Special Report: Trust and Climate.” https: //www.edelman.com/sites/g/files/aatuss191/files/2023-11/2023%20Edelm an%20Trust%20Barometer%20Special%20Report%20Trust%20and%20Climate.pdf, 2023.
13.
D.
Schreiber, C.
Picus, D.
Fischinger, and M.
Boyer, “The defalsif-ai project: protecting critical infrastructures against disinformation and fake news,” e&i Elektrotechnik und Informationstechnik, vol.
138, no.
7, pp.
480–484, 2021.
14.
M.
Hameleers, “Disinformation as a context-bound phenomenon: Toward a conceptual clarification integrating actors, intentions and techniques of creation and dissemination,” Communication Theory, vol.
33, no.
1, pp.
1–10, 2023.
15.
R.
Maertens, F.
Anseel, and S.
van der Linden, “Combatting climate change misinformation: Evidence for longevity of inoculation and consensus messaging effects,” Journal of Environmental Psychology, vol.
70, p.
101455, 2020.
16.
Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate & Energy, “Addressing rampant climate disinformation,” report, Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate & Energy, October 2024.
17.
