equal to $u _ { 0 } ( t + t _ { 0 } )$ , then since that trajectory would at some future time pass through $w _ { 0 }$ , by alternating between the two distinct switching laws we could construct a distinct periodic trajectory originating at $w _ { 0 }$ with a switching law not equal to $u _ { 0 } ( t )$ , contradicting the result just shown.
Since $u _ { 0 } ( t + t _ { 0 } )$ obviously has the same period as $u _ { 0 } ( t )$ we have proved the full statement of (iii) with $T : = T _ { 0 } + T _ { 1 }$ .

It remains to prove (iv). Given a measurable periodic function $u \colon [ 0 , \infty ) $ [0, 1] with period $\tau ,$ say, define $R \colon [ 0 , \infty )  M _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ to be the unique absolutely continuous solution to the initial value problem

$$\dot {R} (t) = ((1 - u (t)) A _ {0} + u (t) A _ {1}) R (t), \qquad R (0) = I$$

and note that for every $w \in \mathbb { R } ^ { 2 }$ the function $x ( t ) : = R ( t ) w$ is precisely the solution to (2) with initial condition w. It follows directly from this observation that $\| R ( t ) \| \leq$ 1 for all $t \geq 0$ and in particular $\rho ( R ( \tau ) ) \stackrel { } { = } 1$ . Since u is periodic with period τ the functions $t \mapsto R ( t + \tau )$ and $t \mapsto R ( t ) R ( \tau )$ solve an identical initial value problem and are therefore identical; it follows by induction that $R ( n \tau ) = R ( \tau ) ^ { n }$ for every $n \geq 0$ . By Jacobi’s formula the determinant $D ( t ) : = \operatorname* { d e t } R ( t )$ satisfies

$$\dot {D} (t) = ((1 - u (t)) \operatorname{tr} A _ {0} + u (t) \operatorname{tr} A _ {1}) D (t), \qquad D (0) = 1$$

which has solution

$$D (t) = \exp \left(\int_ {0} ^ {t} (1 - u (s)) \operatorname{tr} A _ {0} + u (s) \operatorname{tr} A _ {1} d s\right)$$

so in particular det $R ( \tau ) \in ( 0 , 1 )$ using the fact that every $( 1 - \gamma ) A _ { 0 } + \gamma A _ { 1 }$ is Hurwitz and thus has negative trace. If $\rho ( R ( \tau ) ) < 1$ then every solution $x ( t ) \equiv R ( t ) x ( 0 )$ satisfies

$$\limsup _ {n \to \infty} \| x (n \tau) \| ^ {1 / n} \leq \lim _ {n \to \infty} \| R (\tau) ^ {n} \| ^ {1 / n} = \rho (R (\tau)) < 1$$

using Gelfand’s formula, and it follows easily that $x ( t ) \to 0$ exponentially. Otherwise $\rho ( R ( \tau ) ) = 1$ , and since 0 < det $R ( \tau ) < 1$ exactly one of the eigenvalues of $R ( \tau )$ has modulus 1 and both eigenvalues are real. Thus either $1 \mathrm { o r } - 1$ must be an eigenvalue for $R ( \tau )$ , so $R ( 2 \tau )$ has an eigenvalue 1 with corresponding eigenvector w, say. The trajectory $x ( t ) : = R ( t ) w = R ( t + 2 \tau )$ )w is thus periodic with period $2 \tau$ and by (iii) this implies that u has the form $u ( t ) = u _ { 0 } ( t + t _ { 0 } )$ a.e. as described in (iii). The proof is complete.
