# References

[1] J. Hu, Y. Shan, K. W. Cheng, and S. Islam, Overview of power converter control in microgrids—challenges, advances, and future trends, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, 2022.   
[2] F. Blaabjerg, Control of power electronic converters and systems, Elsevier Science Edition, 2018.   
[3] M. C. Campi, A. Lecchini, and S. M. Savaresi, Virtual reference feedback tuning: A data-driven method for the design of feedback controllers, Automatica, 2002.

[4] R. W. Erickson and D. Maksimovic, Fundamentals of power electronics, 2nd edition, Springer, 2001.   
[5] V. Breschi and S. Formentin, Direct data-driven control with embedded anti-windup compensation, Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, 2020.   
[6] OwnTech Foundation, Power converter "TWIST" model, Online GitHub Repository, https://gitlab.laas.fr/owntech/models/simscape-power-system/buck-conve   
[7] J. W. Choi and S. C. Lee, Antiwindup strategy for PI-type speed controller, IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 2009. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2008.2004073   
[8] N. Kameya, Y. Hosoyamada, Y. Fujimoto, and T. Suenaga, VRFT for Current-Mode Buck Converter with Anti-Windup Compensation, IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), 2022.   
[9] I. Markovsky, L. Huang, and F. Dörfler, Data-driven control based on the behavioral approach: From theory to applications in power systems, IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 2023.   
[10] Z.S. Hou and Z. Wang, From model-based control to datadriven control: Survey, classification and perspective, Information Sciences, 2013.   
[11] C. L. Remes, R. B. Gomes, J. V. Flores, F. B. Líbano, L. Campestrini, Virtual reference feedback tuning applied to DC–DC converters. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 2020.   
[12] V. Breschi, S. Formentin, Direct data-driven control with embedded anti-windup compensation. Learning for Dynamics and Control, 2020.   
[13] S. Ahmad, R. P. C. d. Souza, P. Kergus, Z. Kader and S. Caux, Estimation-Based Robust Switching Control of a DC-DC Boost Converter, in IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 2025.   
[14] J.G. Ziegler, N. b. Nichols, Optimum settings for automatic controllers, in Transactions of the ASME, 1942.   
[15] P. Kergus, M. Olivi, C. Poussot-Vassal and F. Demourant, From Reference Model Selection to Controller Validation: Application to Loewner Data-Driven Control, in IEEE Control Systems Letters, 2019.
