Cyber and Infrastructure Security Centre, “Critical infrastructure annual risk review: Second edition,” report, Department of Home Affairs, Australian Government, November 2024.
Available , Accessed on February 07, 2025.
18.
L.
H.
Owen, “Nuclear disasters, information vacuums: How a lack of data in Fukushima led to the spread of fake health news.” https://www.niemanlab.org/2019/07/nuclear-dis asters-information-vacuums-how-a-lack-of-data-in-fukushima-led-to-the -spread-of-fake-health-news/, 2019.
19.
World Economic Forum, “The global risks report 2024,” report, World Economic Forum, Geneva, Switzerland, January 2024.
20.
U.
K.
Ecker, S.
Lewandowsky, J.
Cook, P.
Schmid, L.
K.
Fazio, N.
Brashier, P.
Kendeou, E.
K.
Vraga, and M.
A.
Amazeen, “The psychological drivers of misinformation belief and its resistance to correction,” Nature Reviews Psychology, vol.
1, no.
1, pp.
13–29, 2022.
21.
A.
Kozyreva, L.
Smillie, and S.
Lewandowsky, “Incorporating psychological science into policy making,” European psychologist, 2023.
22.
E.
Dabla-Norris, S.
Khalid, G.
Magistretti, and A.
Sollaci, “Public support for climate change mitigation policies: A cross country survey,” IMF Working Papers, vol.
2023, no.
223, pp.
1–48, 2023.
23.
OECD, “Building trust and reinforcing democracy: Preparing the ground for government action,” tech.
rep., Nov.
2022.
24.
OilPrice.com, “The impact of misinformation on wind energy development,” 2024.
Accessed: 2025-05-08.
25.
The Long View Group, “Summary of the literature: Wind farms and health,” 2014.
Available here, Accessed: 2025-05-08.
26.
J.
Roozenbeek, E.
Culloty, and J.
Suiter, “Countering misinformation,” European Psychologist, 2023.
