# References

[1] H. Lin and P. J. Antsaklis, “Stability and stabilizability of switched linear systems: A survey of recent results,” IEEE Trans. Automat. Control, vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 308–322, 2009.   
[2] D. Liberzon, Switching in systems and control, ser. Systems & Control: Foundations & Applications. Birkh¨auser Boston, Inc., Boston, MA, 2003.   
[3] Y. Chitour, P. Mason, and M. Sigalotti, Dynamics and stability of continuous-time switched linear systems, ser. Progress in Nonlinear Differential Equations and their Applications. Birkh¨auser/Springer, Cham, [2025] ©2025, vol. 105, pNLDE Subseries in Control.   
[4] R. Shorten, F. Wirth, O. Mason, K. Wulff, and C. King, “Stability criteria for switched and hybrid systems,” SIAM Rev., vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 545–592, 2007.   
[5] Z. Sun and S. S. Ge, Stability theory of switched dynamical systems, ser. Communications and Control Engineering Series. Springer, London, 2011.   
[6] M. Balde, U. Boscain, and P. Mason, “A note on stability conditions for planar switched systems,” Internat. J. Control, vol. 82, no. 10, pp. 1882–1888, 2009.   
[7] U. Boscain, “Stability of planar switched systems: the linear single input case,” SIAM J. Control Optim., vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 89–112, 2002.   
[8] M. Margaliot and G. Langholz, “Necessary and sufficient conditions for absolute stability: the case of second-order systems,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Systems I Fund. Theory Appl., vol. 50, no. 2, pp. 227–234, 2003.   
[9] A. M. Musaeva, “Construction of invariant Lyapunov norms for planar switching systems,” Sb. Math., vol. 214, no. 9, pp. 1212–1240, 2023.   
[10] V. Y. Protasov and A. Musaeva, “Second-order linear switching systems with arbitrary control sets: stability and invariant norms,” Eur. J. Control, p. 101346, 2025.   
[11] E. S. Pyatnitskiy and L. B. Rapoport, “Criteria of asymptotic stability of differential inclusions and periodic motions of time-varying nonlinear control systems,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Systems I Fund. Theory Appl., vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 219–229, 1996.   
[12] J. Bochi and I. D. Morris, “A Poincar´e-Bendixson theorem for Bebutov shifts and applications to switched systems,” 2025, forthcoming preprint.
