ontent/uploads/2024/11/Open-Letter\_-Governments-Should-Act-Now-to-Cur b-Climate-Disinformation-1.pdf.
47.
Climate Action Against Disinformation (CAAD), “Climate action against disinformation’s response to the senate inquiry on greenwashing.” https://www.aph.gov.au/DocumentS tore.ashx?id=0ed5ee92-5eee-44f5-a288-724aad574f55&subId=744106, 2025.
48.
M.
Papamichael, C.
Dimopoulos, and G.
Boustras, “Performing risk assessment for critical infrastructure protection: an investigation of transnational challenges and human decisionmaking considerations,” Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure, pp.
1–19, 2024.
49.
S.
Zhuo, R.
Biddle, Y.
S.
Koh, D.
M.
Lottridge, and G.
Russello, “SoK: Human-centered phishing susceptibility,” ACM Trans.
Priv.
Secur., vol.
26, no.
3, pp.
24:1–24:27, 2023.
50.
R.
Cunningham, C.
Cvitanovic, T.
Measham, B.
Jacobs, A.-M.
Dowd, and B.
Harman, “A preliminary assessment into the utility of social networks for engaging local communities in climate adaptation policy,” tech.
rep., Institute for Sustainable Futures and CSIRO, Nov 2014.
Working Paper Prepared for: NSW Office of Environment and Heritage.
51.
P.
Satizabal, I.
Cornes, M.
d.
L.
M.
Zurita, and B.
R.
Cook, “The power of connection:´ Navigating the constraints of community engagement for disaster risk reduction,” International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, vol.
68, p.
102699, 2022.
52.
United Nations, “Code of conduct for information integrity on digital platforms,” tech.
rep., Dec 2023.
53.
UNICEF, “Baku guiding principles on human development for climate resilience.” https: //www.unicef.org/media/165126/file.
54.
V.
Djinlev and B.
J.
Pearce, “Collective action lessons for the energy transition: Learning from social movements of the past,” Sustainability Science, vol.
19, pp.
847–863, 2024.
55.
C.
Ofoegbu and M.
New, “Collaboration relations in climate information production and dissemination to subsistence farmers in Namibia,” Environmental Management, vol.
67, no.
1, pp.
133–145, 2021.
56.
ISO 9001 Auditing Practices Group, “Guidance on: Auditing climate change issues in ISO 9001,” edition 1, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and International Accreditation Forum (IAF), Mar.
2024.
57.
M.
Cosentino, R.
Gal-Oz, and D.
L.
