27.
I.
Trijsburg, H.
Sullivan, E.
Park, M.
Bonotti, P.
Costello, Z.
Nwokora, D.
Pejic, M.
Peucker, and W.
Ridge, “Disinformation in the city: Response playbook,” tech.
rep., The University of Melbourne, 2024.
28.
S.
Jamalzadeh, K.
Barker, A.
D.
Gonzalez, and S.
Radhakrishnan, “Protecting infrastructure ´ performance from disinformation attacks,” Scientific Reports, vol.
12, no.
1, p.
16832, 2022.
29.
E.
Broda and J.
Stromb ¨ ack, “Misinformation, disinformation, and fake news: lessons from ¨ an interdisciplinary, systematic literature review,” Annals of the International Communication Association, vol.
48, no.
2, pp.
139–166, 2024.
30.
S.
Hilberts, S.
Evers, M.
Govers, and E.
Petelos, “The impact of misinformation on social media in the context of natural disasters,” The European Journal of Public Health, vol.
34, 2024.
31.
Down To Earth, “False alerts like the one sent during the Greater Los Angeles wildfires can undermine trust and provoke anxiety.” https://www.downtoearth.org.in/climate-c hange/false-alerts-like-the-one-sent-during-the-greater-los-angeles-w ildfires-can-undermine-trust-and-provoke-anxiety, 2025.
32.
T.
Graham, “Bushfires, bots and arson claims: Australia flung in the global disinformation spotlight,” The Conversation, Jan 2020.
33.
Edelman, “2023 Edelman Trust Barometer.” https://www.edelman.com/trust/2023/t rust-barometer, 2023.
34.
A.
Heffernan, “Disinformation in Africa,” digital policy hub — working paper, Centre for International Governance Innovation (CIGI), Winter 2024.
35.
J.
C.-E.
Liu and C.-F.
Lee, “Climate and energy misinformation in Taiwan,” Frontiers in Communication, vol.
9, p.
1531126, 2025.
36.
N.
Strauss, J.
Painter, J.
Ettinger, M.-N.
Doutreix, A.
Wonneberger, and P.
Walton, “Reporting on the 2019 European heatwaves and climate change: Journalists’ attitudes, motivations and role perceptions,” in Journalism and Reporting Synergistic Effects of Climate Change, pp.
226– 249, Routledge, 2024.
37.
A.
Casero-Ripolles, J.
Tu ´ n˜on, and L.
Bouza-Garc ´ ´ıa, “The European approach to online disinformation: Geopolitical and regulatory dissonance,” Humanities and Social Sciences Communications, vol.
10, no.
1, pp.
1–10, 2023.
38.
S.
T.
Kaur, T.
Aamir, S.
Trewin, and M.
Grobler, “REAG (Resilience Expert Advisory Group) pre-workshop survey quantitative analysis findings,” 2024.
39.
