[5] T.
M.
Liggett, Stochastic Interacting Systems: Contact, Voter and Exclusion Processes.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2013, vol.
324.
[6] P.
E.
Paré, C.
L.
Beck, and T.
Ba¸sar, “Modeling, estimation, and analysis of epidemics over networks: An overview,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
50, pp.
345–360, 2020.
[7] A.
Lajmanovich and J.
A.
Yorke, “A deterministic model for gonorrhea in a nonhomogeneous population,” Mathematical Biosciences, vol.
28, no.
3-4, pp.
221–236, 1976.
[8] J.
O.
Kephart and S.
R.
White, “Directed-graph epidemiological models of computer viruses,” in Computation: the Micro and the Macro View.
World Scientific, 1992, pp.
71–102.
[9] R.
Pastor-Satorras and A.
Vespignani, “Epidemic spreading in scale-free networks,” Physical Review Letters, vol.
86, no.
14, p.
3200, 2001.
[10] P.
Van Mieghem, J.
Omic, and R.
Kooij, “Virus spread in networks,” IEEE/ACM Transactions On Networking, vol.
17, no.
1, pp.
1–14, 2008.
[11] E.
Cator and P.
Van Mieghem, “Second-order mean-field susceptibleinfected-susceptible epidemic threshold,” Physical Review E, vol.
85, no.
5, p.
056111, 2012.
[12] P.
Van Mieghem and R.
van de Bovenkamp, “Accuracy criterion for the mean-field approximation in susceptible-infected-susceptible epidemics on networks,” Physical Review E, vol.
91, no.
3, p.
032812, 2015.
[13] Y.
Wang, D.
Chakrabarti, C.
Wang, and C.
Faloutsos, “Epidemic spreading in real networks: An eigenvalue viewpoint,” in Proceedings of the 22nd International Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems, 2003, pp.
25–34.
[14] D.
Chakrabarti, Y.
Wang, C.
Wang, J.
Leskovec, and C.
Faloutsos, “Epidemic thresholds in real networks,” ACM Transactions on Information and System Security, vol.
10, no.
4, pp.
1–26, 2008.
[15] H.
J.
Ahn and B.
Hassibi, “On the mixing time of the SIS Markov chain model for epidemic spread,” in Proceedings of the 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2014, pp.
6221–6227.
[16] ——, “Global dynamics of epidemic spread over complex networks,” in Proceedings of the 52nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2013, pp.
4579–4585.
[17] S.
Han, V.
M.
Preciado, C.
Nowzari, and G.
J.
Pappas, “Data-driven network resource allocation for controlling spreading processes,” IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, vol.
2, no.
4, pp.
127–138, 2015.
[18] K.
Paarporn, C.
Eksin, J.
S.
Weitz, and J.
S.
