[39] Joshua L Proctor, Steven L Brunton, and J Nathan Kutz.
Dynamic mode decomposition with control.
SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems, 15(1):142–161, 2016.
[40] Igor Mezi´c.
On numerical approximations of the Koopman operator.
Mathematics, 10(7), 2022.
[41] Samuel E.
Otto and Clarence W.
Rowley.
Linearly recurrent autoencoder networks for learning dynamics.
SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems, 18(1):558–593, 2019.
[42] Naoya Takeishi, Yoshinobu Kawahara, and Takehisa Yairi.
Learning Koopman invariant subspaces for dynamic mode decomposition.
In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, NIPS’17, page 1130–1140, Red Hook, NY, USA, 2017.
Curran Associates Inc.
[43] Bethany Lusch, J.
Nathan Kutz, and Steven L.
Brunton.
Deep learning for universal linear embeddings of nonlinear dynamics.
Nature Communications, 9(1):4950, 11 2018.
[44] Steven L.
Brunton, Bingni W.
Brunton, Joshua L.
Proctor, and J.
Nathan Kutz.
Koopman invariant subspaces and finite linear representations of nonlinear dynamical systems for control.
PLOS ONE, 11(2):1–19, 2 2016.
[45] Hassan Arbabi and Igor Mezi´c.
Ergodic theory, dynamic mode decomposition, and computation of spectral properties of the koopman operator.
SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems, 16(4):2096–2126, 2017.
[46] Steven L.
Brunton, Bingni W.
Brunton, Joshua L.
Proctor, Eurika Kaiser, and J.
Nathan Kutz.
Chaos as an intermittently forced linear system.
Nature Communications, 8(1):19, 5 2017.
[47] Xiaoyang Xie and Shaoqiang Tang.
Regularized dynamic mode decomposition algorithm for time sequence predictions.
Theoretical and Applied Mechanics Letters, 14(5):100555, 2024.
[48] Giorgio Palma, Andrea Bardazzi, Alessia Lucarelli, Chiara Pilloton, Andrea Serani, Claudio Lugni, and Matteo Diez.
Analysis, forecasting, and system identification of a floating offshore wind turbine using dynamic mode decomposition.
Journal of Marine Science and Engineering, 13(4), 3 2025.
[49] Matteo Diez, Andrea Serani, Mauro Gaggero, and Emilio Fortunato Campana.
Improving knowledge and forecasting of ship performance in waves via hybrid machine learning methods.
In 34th Symposium on Naval Hydrodynamics, Washington, DC, USA, June 26 - July 1, 2022, 2022.
[50] Edward Carlstein.
