Teichmann, “Theory of ordinary differential equations,” 1956.
[28] H.
K.
Khalil, Nonlinear Systems, 3rd ed.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002.
[29] G.
K.
Batchelor, An introduction to fluid dynamics.
Cambridge university press, 2000.
[30] F.
H.
Clarke, “Generalized gradients and applications,” Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, vol.
205, pp.
247–262, 1975.
[31] F.
H.
Clarke, Y.
S.
Ledyaev, R.
J.
Stern, and R.
Wolenski, Nonsmooth analysis and control theory.
Springer, 1998.
[32] F.
H.
Clarke, Optimization and nonsmooth analysis.
SIAM, 1990.
[33] L.
Ambrosio, N.
Gigli, and G.
Savare,´ Gradient flows: in metric spaces and in the space of probability measures.
Springer, 2005.
[34] S.
P.
Boyd and L.
Vandenberghe, Convex optimization.
Cambridge university press, 2004.
[35] F.
Albertini and E.
D.
Sontag, “Continuous control-lyapunov functions for asymptotically controllable time-varying systems,” International Journal of Control, vol.
72, no.
18, pp.
1630–1641, 1999.
[36] G.
Notomista and M.
Egerstedt, “Persistification of robotic tasks,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
29, no.
2, pp.
756– 767, 2020.
[37] X.
Xu, “Constrained control of input–output linearizable systems using control sharing barrier functions,” Automatica, vol.
87, pp.
195–201, 2018.
[38] L.
Lindemann and D.
V.
Dimarogonas, “Control barrier functions for signal temporal logic tasks,” IEEE control systems letters, vol.
3, no.
1, pp.
96–101, 2018.
[39] R.
Lin and M.
Egerstedt, ““Hierarchy of needs” for robots: Control synthesis for compositions of hierarchical, complex objectives,” in 2025 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2025, pp.
7682–7688.
[40] E.
Sontag and H.
J.
Sussmann, “Nonsmooth control-lyapunov functions,” in Proceedings of 1995 34th IEEE conference on decision and control, vol.
3.
IEEE, 1995, pp.
2799–2805.
[41] L.
Wang, A.
D.
Ames, and M.
Egerstedt, “Safety barrier certificates for collisions-free multirobot systems,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
33, no.
3, pp.
661–674, 2017.
