Goldfarb, “An approach for the cooperative control of FES with a powered exoskeleton during level walking for persons with paraplegia,” IEEE Transactions on Neural

Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, vol.
24, no.
4, pp.
455–466, 2015.
[35] S.
Dalla Gasperina, F.
Ferrari, M.
Gandolla, A.
Pedrocchi, and E.
Ambrosini, “Hybrid cooperative control of functional electrical stimulation and robot assistance for upper extremity rehabilitation,” IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 2024.
[36] A.
Argha, S.
W.
Su, and B.
G.
Celler, “Control allocation-based fault tolerant control,” Automatica, vol.
103, pp.
408–417, 2019.
[37] H.
Kavianirad, M.
Forouhar, H.
Sadeghian, S.
Endo, S.
Haddadin, and S.
Hirche, “Model-based shared control of a hybrid FES-exoskeleton: an application in participant-specific robotic rehabilitation,” in 2023 International Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics (ICORR).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
1–6.
[38] F.
Sup, A.
Bohara, and M.
Goldfarb, “Design and control of a powered transfemoral prosthesis,” The International journal of robotics research, vol.
27, no.
2, pp.
263–273, 2008.
[39] Y.
Chen, J.
Hu, L.
Peng, and Z.-g.
Hou, “The FES-assisted control for a lower limb rehabilitation robot: simulation and experiment,” Robotics and Biomimetics, vol.
1, no.
1, p.
2, 2014.
[40] R.
Gehlhar, M.
Tucker, A.
J.
Young, and A.
D.
Ames, “A review of current state-of-the-art control methods for lower-limb powered prostheses,” Annual reviews in control, vol.
55, pp.
142–164, 2023.
[41] A.
P.
L.
Bo, L.
O.
da Fonseca, and A.
C.
C.
de Sousa, “FES-induced coactivation of antagonist muscles for upper limb control and disturbance rejection,” Medical engineering & physics, vol.
38, no.
11, pp.
1176– 1184, 2016.
[42] M.
Cocetti, A.
Serrani, and L.
Zaccarian, “Linear output regulation with dynamic optimization for uncertain linear over-actuated systems,” Automatica, vol.
97, pp.
214–225, 2018.
[43] E.
D.
Sontag, “Comments on integral variants of iss,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
34, no.
1-2, pp.
93–100, 1998.
[44] D.
Liberzon, Switching in systems and control.
Springer, 2003, vol.
190.
[45] D.
J.
Braun, F.
Petit, F.
Huber, S.
Haddadin, P.
Van Der Smagt, A.
Albu-Schaffer, and S.
Vijayakumar, “Robots driven by compliant actuators: ¨ Optimal control under actuation constraints,” IEEE transactions on robotics, vol.
29, no.
5, pp.
1085–1101, 2013.
[46] P.
Neilson, “Speed of response or bandwidth of voluntary system controlling elbow position in intact man,” Medical and biological engineering, vol.
10, no.
4, pp.
450–459, 1972.
[47] J.
M.
