[19] B.
O.
Koopman.
Hamiltonian systems and transformation in hilbert space.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 17(5):315–318, 1931.
[20] Joshua L.
Proctor, Steven L.
Brunton, and J.
Nathan Kutz.
Generalizing koopman theory to allow for inputs and control.
SIAM J Appl Dyn Syst, 17(1):909–930, 2018.
[21] Clarence W.
Rowley, IGOR Mezi´c, SHERVIN Bagheri, PHILIPP Schlatter, and DAN S.
Hennigson.
Spectral analysis of nonlinear flows.
Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 641:115–127, 2009.
[22] ZhanQi Tang and Nan Jiang.
Dynamic mode decomposition of hairpin vortices generated by a hemisphere protuberance.
Science China Physics, Mechanics and Astronomy, 55(1):118–124, 1 2012.
[23] Onofrio Semeraro, Gabriele Bellani, and Fredrik Lundell.
Analysis of time-resolved piv measurements of a confined turbulent jet using pod and koopman modes.
Experiments in Fluids, 53(5):1203–1220, 11 2012.
[24] G.
Song, F.
Alizard, J.-C.
Robinet, and X.
Gloerfelt.
Global and Koopman modes analysis of sound generation in mixing layers.
Physics of Fluids, 25(12):124101, 12 2013.
[25] Joshua L.
Proctor and Philip A.
Eckhoff.
Discovering dynamic patterns from infectious disease data using dynamic mode decomposition.
International Health, 7(2):139–145, 02 2015.
[26] Bingni W.
Brunton, Lise A.
Johnson, Jeffrey G.
Ojemann, and J.
Nathan Kutz.
Extracting spatial–temporal coherent patterns in large-scale neural recordings using dynamic mode decomposition.
Journal of Neuroscience Methods, 258:1–15, 2016.
[27] Jordan Mann and J.
Nathan Kutz.
Dynamic mode decomposition for financial trading strategies.
Quantitative Finance, 16(11):1643–1655, 2016.
[28] Matteo Diez, Andrea Serani, Emilio F.
Campana, and Frederick Stern.
Time-series forecasting of ships maneuvering in waves via dynamic mode decomposition.
Journal of Ocean Engineering and Marine Energy, 8(4):471–478, 11 2022.
[29] Andrea Serani, Paolo Dragone, Frederick Stern, and Matteo Diez.
On the use of dynamic mode decomposition for time-series forecasting of ships operating in waves.
Ocean Engineering, 267:113235, 2023.
[30] Giorgio Palma, Andrea Serani, Shawn Aram, David W.
Wundrow, David Drazen, and Matteo Diez.
Bayesian dynamic mode decomposition for real-time ship motion digital twinning.
arXiv, https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14839, 2024.
[31] A.
Serani, M.
Diez, S.
Aram, D.
Wundrow, D.
Drazen, and K.
McTaggart.
