Ergodic BSDE with an unbounded and multiplicative underlying diffusion and application to large time behavior of viscosity solution of HJB equation.
Stochastic Processes and their Applications, 129(10):4009–4050, 2019.

[16] Y. Hu, P.-Y. Madec, and A. Richou. A probabilistic approach to large time behavior of mild solutions of Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations in infinite dimension. SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 53(1):378–398, 2015. https://hal.science/hal-01006336.   
[17] X. Huang, H. Li, and L. Mu. Exponential ergodicity in W1 for SDEs with distribution dependent noise and partially dissipative drifts, 2025. https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14090.   
[18] X. Huang and X. Ma. Coupling methods and applications on the exponential contractivity for path dependent McKean-Vlasov SDEs, 2024. https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03104.   
[19] X. Huang and F.-Y. Wang. Regularities and exponential ergodicity in entropy for SDEs driven by distribution dependent noise. Bernoulli, 30(3):3303 – 3323, 2023.   
[20] E. J. McShane and R. B. Warfield. On Filippov’s implicit functions lemma. Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, 18(1):41–47, 1967.   
[21] E. Pardoux and S. Peng. Adapted solution of a backward stochastic differential equation. Systems & Control Letters, 14(1):55–61, 1990.   
[22] H. Pham and X. Wei. Dynamic programming for optimal control of stochastic McKean-Vlasov dynamics. SIAM J. Control Optim., 55(2):1069–1101, 2017.   
[23] S. Rud\`a. Infinite time horizon optimal control of McKean-Vlasov SDEs, 2025. https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20572.   
[24] F.-Y. Wang. Distribution dependent SDEs for Landau type equations. Stochastic Processes and their Applications Volume 128, Issue 2, 2018.
