# References

[1] X.
Bao and S.
Tang.
Ergodic control of McKean-Vlasov SDEs and associated Bellman equation.
J.
Math.
Anal.
Appl., 527(1):Paper No.
127404, 28, 2023.
[2] E.
Bayraktar and J.
Jian.
Ergodicity and turnpike properties of linear-quadratic mean field control problems, 2025.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08935.
[3] P.
Briand and Y.
Hu.
Stability of BSDEs with random terminal time and homogenization of semilinear elliptic PDEs.
Journal of Functional Analysis, 155, 455-494, 1998.
[4] P.
Cardaliaguet, J.-M.
Lasry, P.-L.
Lions, and A.
Porretta.
Long time average of mean field games.
Netw.
Heterog.
Media, 7(2):279–301, 2012.
[5] P.
Cardaliaguet, J.-M.
Lasry, P.-L.
Lions, and A.
Porretta.
Long time average of mean field games with a nonlocal coupling.
SIAM J.
Control Optim., 51(5):3558–3591, 2013.
[6] P.
Cardaliaguet and A.
Porretta.
Long time behavior of the master equation in mean field game theory.
Anal.
PDE, 12(6):1397–1453, 2019.
[7] A.
Cecchin, G.
Conforti, A.
Durmus, and K.
Eichinger.
The exponential turnpike phenomenon for mean field game systems: weakly monotone drifts and small interactions, 2024.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09193.
[8] D.
Crisan and E.
McMurray.
Smoothing properties of McKean-Vlasov SDEs.
Probability Theory and Related Fields, 171, pp.97-148, 2018.
[9] A.
Debussche, Y.
Hu, and G.
Tessitore.
Ergodic BSDEs under weak dissipative assumptions.
Stochastic Processes and their Applications, 121, 3, pp.
407-426, 2011.
[10] F.
Delarue and R.
Carmona.
Theory of Mean Field Games with Applications I Mean Field FBSDEs, Control, and Games.
Springer, 2018.
[11] A.
Eberle, A.
Guillin, and R.
Zimmer.
Quantitative Harris type theorems for diffusions and mckean-vlasov processes.
Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 371, 06 2016.
[12] M.
Fuhrman and S.
Rud\`a.
Ergodic control of McKean-Vlasov systems on the Wasserstein space, 2025.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.17958.
[13] M.
Fuhrman and G.
Tessitore.
The Bismut-Elworthy formula for backward SDE’s and applications to nonlinear Kolmogorov equations and control in infinite dimensional spaces.
Stochastics and Stochastic Reports, 74:1-2, pp.
429-464, 2002.
[14] M.
Fuhrman, G.
Tessitore, and Y.
Hu.
Ergodic BSDEs and optimal ergodic control in Banach spaces.
SIAM J.
Control Optim., Vol.48, No.3, pp.1542-1566, 2009.
[15] Y.
Hu and F.
Lemonnier.
