# VI. CONCLUSIONS

In this paper, we developed a general multi-agent control framework, named disentangled control. This framework is broadly applicable, no matter when the underlying PE graph is undirected, directed, or piecewise constant, and provides a systematic way of solving a particularly challenging problem, i.e., decentralization of entangled dynamics among involved agents. For example, it resolves a long-standing open problem that existing methods do not provide rigorous convergence guarantees, i.e., decentralized coverage control for time-varying densities, without relying on any simplifying approximations. Furthermore, the framework is suitable for multi-objective robotics and real-time implementations, as demonstrated in the physical experiments.

Notably, since any objective function that can be constructed in the form of a TV-CLF can be seamlessly integrated into the proposed framework, it can be utilized to solve a wide range of problems in a decentralized manner. To name a few, aerial-ground robotic collaboration where the heterogeneous agents have states of different dimensions, i.e., $n _ { i } \ \ne \ n _ { j } ,$ , and decentralized coverage control for multiple different timevarying densities, i.e., $\rho _ { i } ( q , t ) ~ \neq ~ \rho _ { j } ( q , t )$ . Extending even beyond robotics, the framework holds significant promise for decentralized decision-making and action generation in multiagent systems. We leave to the community further exploration of the ideas of Theorem IV.1 and Theorem IV.2 in broader fields and more diverse applications.
