Model order reduction of 5415m in irregular waves via dynamic mode decomposition: Computational models’ diagnostics, forecasting, and system identification capabilities.
In Proceedings of the 35th Symposium on Naval Hydrodynamics (SNH), Nantes, France, 07 2024.
Held July 7–13, 2024.
[32] Giorgio Palma, Andrea Serani, Shawn Aram, David W.
Wundrow, David Drazen, and Matteo Diez.
Model-free system identification of surface ships in waves via hankel dynamic mode decomposition with control.
Ocean Engineering, 341:122539, 2025.
[33] Giorgio Palma, Andrea Serani, Matteo Diez, Christian Milano, Zhaoyuan Wang, Sungtek Park, Deniz Ozturk Sarigul, and Frederick Stern.
Bayesian hankel extended dynamic mode decomposition for system identification of high-speed planing hulls.
In International Conference on Fast Sea Technology (FAST), 2025.
[34] Giorgio Palma, Andrea Serani, and Matteo Diez.
Data-driven uncertainty-aware seakeeping prediction of the delft 372 catamaran using ensemble hankel dynamic mode decomposition.
Journal of Hydrodynamics, under review, 2025.
[35] Naoya Takeishi, Yoshinobu Kawahara, Yasuo Tabei, and Takehisa Yairi.
Bayesian dynamic mode decomposition.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-17, pages 2814–2821, 2017.
[36] Diya Sashidhar and J.
Nathan Kutz.
Bagging, optimized dynamic mode decomposition for robust, stable forecasting with spatial and temporal uncertainty quantification.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 380(2229):20210199, 2022.
[37] D.
J.
T.
Carter.
Estimation of wave spectra from wave height and period.
Technical Report I.O.S.
135, Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, Wormley, UK, 1982.
[38] PJ Schmid and J Sesterhenn.
Dynamic mode decomposition of numerical and experimental data in: Sixty-first annual meeting of the aps division of fluid dynamics.
San Antonio, Texas, USA, 2008.
