# REFERENCES

[1] P.
A.
Ioannou and J.
Sun, Robust Adaptive Control.
New York, NY: Dover, 2012.
[2] H.
J.
van Waarde, M.
K.
Camlibel, and H.
L.
Trentelman, Data-Based Linear Systems and Control Theory.
Kindle Direct Publishing, 2025.
[3] J.
C.
Willems, P.
Rapisarda, I.
Markovsky, and B.
L.
De Moor, “A note on persistency of excitation,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
54, no.
4, pp.
325–329, 2005.
[4] C.
De Persis and P.
Tesi, “Formulas for data-driven control: Stabilization, optimality, and robustness,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
3, pp.
909–924, 2020.
[5] H.
J.
van Waarde, J.
Eising, H.
L.
Trentelman, and M.
K.
Camlibel, “Data informativity: A new perspective on data-driven analysis and control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
65, no.
11, pp.
4753–4768, 2020.
[6] A.
Bisoffi, C.
De Persis, and P.
Tesi, “Data-driven control via Petersen’s lemma,” Automatica, vol.
145, p.
110537, 2022.
[7] H.
J.
van Waarde, M.
K.
Camlibel, J.
Eising, and H.
L.
Trentelman, “Quadratic matrix inequalities with applications to data-based control,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
61, no.
4, pp.
2251– 2281, 2023.
[8] F.
Dorfler, P.
Tesi, and C.
De Persis, “On the certainty-equivalence ¨ approach to direct data-driven LQR design,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
12, pp.
7989–7996, 2023.
[9] J.
Berberich, C.
W.
Scherer, and F.
Allgower, “Combining prior ¨ knowledge and data for robust controller design,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
8, pp.
4618–4633, 2022.
[10] B.
Nortmann and T.
Mylvaganam, “Direct data-driven control of linear time-varying systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
8, pp.
4888–4895, 2023.
[11] N.
Monshizadeh, C.
De Persis, and P.
Tesi, “A versatile framework for data-driven control of nonlinear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2025.
[12] A.
Seuret and S.
Tarbouriech, “Robust data-driven control design for linear systems subject to input saturation,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
9, pp.
6191–6198, 2024.
[13] H.
J.
van Waarde, J.
Eising, M.
K.
Camlibel, and H.
L.
Trentelman, “A behavioral approach to data-driven control with noisy input–output data,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
2, pp.
813–827, 2023.
[14] M.
Alsalti, V.
G.
Lopez, and M.
A.
