# G.3 Regret with Adversarial Systems

We now consider the setting where a given cluster $\mathcal { C } _ { j }$ consists of $f _ { j }$ adversarial systems and $m _ { j } = $ $M _ { j } - f _ { j }$ honest systems. The effect of the adversarial systems on the regret bounds manifests through the resilient coefficient λ of the underlying resilient aggregation rule (see Definition 2.1). Well-known resilient aggregation rules such as the coordinate-wise trimmed mean (CWTM) and the mean-around-median (MeaMed) typically exhibit a resilient coefficient on the order of $\mathcal { O } ( f _ { j } / m _ { j } )$ . We refer the reader to Farhadkhani et al. [2022] for more details on such resilient aggregators. In Section 5, we further illustrate our adversarially robust adaptive control approach using GM, whose resilience coefficient scales as $\begin{array} { r } { \mathcal { O } \biggl ( 1 + \frac { m _ { j } } { \sqrt { M _ { j } - 2 f _ { j } } M _ { j } } \biggr ) } \end{array}$ In this case, the improvement in regret with respect to the number of honest systems within each cluster may be attenuated.

Theorem G.2 (Adversarial and intra-cluster heterogeneity). Consider a system i belonging to a heterogeneous cluster $C _ { j }$ of size Mj that may contain a fraction of adversarial systems. Let the assumptions of Algorithm (2) hold. Suppose that the exploration sequence satisfies √ $\sigma _ { k } ^ { 2 } \ =$ $\frac { \sqrt { d _ { u } ^ { 2 } d _ { x } } } { d _ { x } ^ { 2 } + d _ { x } d _ { u } } \sqrt { \frac { 1 + \lambda ^ { 2 } d _ { x } m _ { j } } { \tau _ { k } m _ { j } } }$ 1+λ2dxmj and that the epoch length is double every epoch, i.e., $\tau _ { k } = 2 ^ { k - 1 } \tau _ { 1 }$ , with total horizon $T = \tau _ { k _ { \mathrm { f i n } } }$ . Then, the expected regret of system i satisfies

$$
\begin{array}{l} \mathbb {E} \left[ \mathcal {R} _ {T} ^ {(i)} \right] \leq \Omega_ {1} \sqrt {\frac {d _ {u} ^ {2} d _ {x} T (1 + \lambda^ {2} d _ {x} m _ {j})}{m _ {j}}} + \Omega_ {2} (\log T) ^ {2} + \Omega_ {3} T \exp \left(- C _ {\text {mis,2}} \sqrt {\frac {1 + \lambda^ {2} d _ {x} m _ {j} \tau_ {1}}{m _ {j}}}\right) \\ + \Omega_ {4} T (1 + \lambda^ {2}) \epsilon_ {\mathrm{het}} ^ {2}. \\ \end{array}
$$

Proof. We begin the proof by rewriting the regret decomposition as follows:
