# References

[1] Stephen Boyd, Laurent El Ghaoui, Eric Feron, and Venkataramanan Balakrishnan.
Linear matrix inequalities in system and control theory.
SIAM, 1994.
[2] Stephen P Boyd and Lieven Vandenberghe.
Convex optimization.
Cambridge university press, 2004.
[3] Leila Jasmine Bridgeman and James Richard Forbes.
Conicsector-based control to circumvent passivity violations.
International Journal of Control, 87(8):1467–1477, 2014.
[4] Bernard Brogliato and et al.
Dissipative Systems Analysis and Control.
Springer Verlag, London, UK, 2 edition, 2007.
[5] Peter M Dower, Christopher M Kellett, and CM Kellett.
A dynamic programming approach to the approximation of nonlinear l 2-gain.
In 2008 47th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pages 1–6.
IEEE, 2008.
[6] Patrick Fitzpatrick.
Advanced calculus, volume 5.
Amer.
Math.
Soc., 2009.
[7] Peter Giesl and Sigurdur Hafstein.
Construction of Lyapunov functions for nonlinear planar systems by linear programming.
J.
Math.
Anal.
Appl., 388(1):463–479, 2012.
[8] Peter Giesl and Sigurdur Hafstein.
Revised CPA method to compute Lyapunov functions for nonlinear systems.
J.
Math.
Anal.
Appl., 410(1):292–306, 2014.
[9] Sandeep Gupta.
Robust stabiliation of uncertain systems based on energy dissipation concepts.
Technical Report NASA Contractor Report 4713, Vigyan, Inc., Hampton, VA, 1996.
[10] D.
Hill and P.
Moylan.
Connections between finite-gain and asymptotic stability.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 25(5):931–936, 1980.
[11] David Hill and Peter Moylan.
The stability of nonlinear dissipative systems.
IEEE Tran.
Aut.
Ctrl., 21(5):708–711, 1976.
[12] David J Hill and Peter James Moylan.
Stability results for nonlinear feedback systems.
Automatica, 13(4):377–382, 1977.
[13] Matthew R James and S Yuliar.
Numerical approximation of the H∞ norm for nonlinear systems.
Automatica, 31(8):1075– 1086, 1995.
[14] SM Joshi and AG Kelkar.
Design of norm-bounded and sector-bounded lqg controllers for uncertain systems.
Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, 113(2):269–282, 2002.
[15] Anne Koch, Julian Berberich, and Frank Allg¨ower.
Provably robust verification of dissipativity properties from data.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 67(8):4248–4255, 2021.
[16] Reza Lavaei and Leila Bridgeman.
Simultaneous controller and Lyapunov function design for constrained nonlinear systems.
In Amer.
Ctrl.
