# References

[1] A.
Norouzi, H.
Heidarifar, H.
Borhan, M.
Shahbakhti, and C.
R.
Koch, “Integrating machine learning and model predictive control for automotive applications: A review and future directions,” Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, vol.
120, p.
105878, 2023.
[2] P.
K.
Mishra, M.
V.
Gasparino, and G.
Chowdhary, “Deep model predictive control with stability guarantees,” IEEE Trans.
on Autom.
Control, 2025.
[3] D.
Q.
Mayne, E.
C.
Kerrigan, E.
J.
Van W., and P.
Falugi, “Tube-based robust nonlinear model predictive control,” Int.
Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
21, no.
11, pp.
1341–1353, 2011.
[4] G.
Joshi and G.
Chowdhary, “Deep model reference adaptive control,” in 58th Conf.
on Decision and Control.
IEEE, 2019, pp.
4601–4608.
[5] T.
Zieger, A.
Savchenko, T.
Oehlschlagel, and R.
Findeisen, “Towards¨ safe neural network supported model predictive control,” in 21st IFAC world congress.
IFAC, 2019.
[6] N.
Hovakimyan and C.
Cao, ??1 adaptive control theory: Guaranteed robustness with fast adaptation.
SIAM, 2010.
[7] R.
Sinha, J.
Harrison, S.
M.
Richards, and M.
Pavone, “Adaptive robust model predictive control with matched and unmatched uncertainty,” pp.
906–913, 2022.
[8] P.
K.
Mishra, D.
Chatterjee, and D.
E.
Quevedo, “Sparse and constrained stochastic predictive control for networked systems,” Automatica, vol.
87, pp.
40–51, 2018.
[9] P.
K.
Mishra, S.
S.
Diwale, C.
N.
Jones, and D.
Chatterjee, “Reference tracking stochastic model predictive control over unreliable channels and bounded control actions,” Automatica, vol.
127, p.
109512, 2021.
[10] T.
De Bruin, J.
Kober, K.
Tuyls, and R.
Babuska, “Experience selection in deep reinforcement learning for control,” Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol.
19, 2018.
[11] A.
F.
Handbook, “Federal aviation administration,” Department of Transportation, 1972.
[12] G.
W.
H.
Van Es, P.
J.
van der Geest, and A.
M.
H.
Nieuwpoort, “Safety aspects of aircraft operations in crosswind,” 2001.
[13] K.
Albee, C.
Oestreich, C.
Specht, A.
Teran Espinoza, J.
Todd, I.
Hokaj, ´ R.
Lampariello, and R.
Linares, “A robust observation, planning, and control pipeline for autonomous rendezvous with tumbling targets,” Frontiers in Robotics and AI, vol.
8, p.
641338, 2021.
[14] A.
Billard, S.
Mirrazavi, and N.
Figueroa, Learning for adaptive and reactive robot control: a dynamical systems approach.
Mit Press, 2022.
[15] A.
Parsi, P.
