Winters and L.
Stark, “Analysis of fundamental human movement patterns through the use of in-depth antagonistic muscle models,” IEEE transactions on biomedical engineering, no.
10, pp.
826–839, 2007.
[48] R.
D.
Crowninshield and R.
A.
Brand, “A physiologically based criterion of muscle force prediction in locomotion,” Journal of biomechanics, vol.
14, no.
11, pp.
793–801, 1981.
[49] N.
Kirsch, N.
Alibeji, and N.
Sharma, “Nonlinear model predictive control of functional electrical stimulation,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
58, pp.
319–331, 2017.
[50] C.-H.
Chang, V.
H.
Duenas, and A.
Sanyal, “Model free nonlinear control with finite-time estimation applied to closed-loop electrical stimulation induced cycling,” in 2020 American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
5182–5187.
[51] N.
Alibeji, N.
Kirsch, and N.
Sharma, “An adaptive low-dimensional control to compensate for actuator redundancy and FES-induced muscle fatigue in a hybrid neuroprosthesis,” Control Engineering Practice, vol.
59, pp.
204–219, 2017.
[52] W.
K.
Durfee and K.
E.
MACLean, “Methods for estimating isometric recruitment curves of electrically stimulated muscle,” IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, vol.
36, no.
7, pp.
654–667, 1989.
[53] C.
A.
Cousin, V.
H.
Duenas, C.
A.
Rouse, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Admittance trajectory tracking using a challenge-based rehabilitation robot with functional electrical stimulation,” in 2018 Annual American Control Conference (ACC).
IEEE, 2018, pp.
3732–3737.
[54] N.
A.
Alibeji, V.
Molazadeh, B.
E.
Dicianno, and N.
Sharma, “A control scheme that uses dynamic postural synergies to coordinate a hybrid walking neuroprosthesis: Theory and experiments,” Frontiers in neuroscience, vol.
12, p.
159, 2018.
[55] B.
C.
Allen, K.
J.
Stubbs, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Electromechanical delay during functional electrical stimulation induced cycling is a function of lower limb position,” Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, vol.
18, no.
5, pp.
491–496, 2023.
[56] X.
Bao, Z.
Sheng, B.
E.
Dicianno, and N.
Sharma, “A tube-based model predictive control method to regulate a knee joint with functional electrical stimulation and electric motor assist,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
29, no.
5, pp.
2180–2191, 2020.
