Fig. 2(a) illustrates the closed-loop system behavior when the state estimates provided by the proposed observer are used in the controller. As expected from Theorem 4, given the small upper bound on the steady state estimation error imposed by the k-hop PPSO, the MAS achieves consensus. However, although the goal is achieved, the agents are not stabilized around a stationary mean. As introduced earlier, this behavior is not caused by the use of estimated states in the control law, but rather by the nonlinearity of $f .$ Given the large number of estimates involved in the network, and due to space limitation, Fig. 2(b) and Fig. 2(c) present only the estimation results regarding Agent 4. For this agent, the performance functions on the disagreement terms have been selected as $\rho _ { N _ { \mathrm { + } } ^ { 4 } , l } ^ { 4 } ( t ) ~ = ~ \rho ( t ) ~ = ~ 2 . 8 e ^ { - 5 t } + 0 . 0 2$ and $\omega _ { N _ { i } ^ { 4 } , l } ^ { 4 } ( t ) = \omega ( t ) = 3 9 . 2 7 e ^ { - 5 t } + 0 . 0 3 3$ for all $N _ { j } ^ { 4 } \in \mathcal { N } _ { 4 } ^ { k \mathrm { - h o p } }$ and $l \in \{ 1 , 2 \}$ . While Fig. 2(b) shows the evolution of the maximum absolute disagreement and estimation error for the estimate of Agent 4’s state (obtained by agents $\mathcal { N } _ { 4 } ^ { k - \mathrm { h o p } } )$ , Fig. 2(c) shows those regarding the input estimates.rdance with Theorem 1 and Theorem 3, Fig. 2 shows $N _ { j } ^ { 4 } \ \in$ that under proper initialization, if $| \xi _ { N _ { j } ^ { i } , l } ^ { i } ( t ) | < \rho _ { N _ { j } ^ { i } , l } ^ { i } ( t )$ and $| \mu _ { N _ { j } ^ { i } , l } ^ { i } ( t ) | < \omega _ { N _ { j } ^ { i } , l } ^ { i } ( t )$ hold for all t, then $| \tilde { x } _ { i , l } ^ { N _ { j } ^ { i } } ( t ) | < \delta ( t )$ and $| \tilde { u } _ { i , l } ^ { N _ { j } ^ { 2 } } ( t ) | < \theta ( t )$ are satisfied for all $i \in \mathcal { V } , N _ { j } ^ { i } \in \mathcal { N } _ { i } ^ { k \mathrm { - h o p } }$ and $l \in \{ 1 , 2 \}$ .
