# References

[1] Vasilis K Dertimanis, EN Chatzi, S Eftekhar Azam, and Costas Papadimitriou. Input-state-parameter estimation of structural systems from limited output information. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 126:711746, 2019.   
[2] Maher Abdelghani and Michael I Friswell. Sensor validation for structural systems with multiplicative sensor faults. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 21(1):270279, 2007.   
[3] Saeed Eftekhar Azam, Eleni Chatzi, and Costas Papadimitriou. A dual kalman lter approach for state estimation via output-only acceleration measurements. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 60:866886, 2015.   
[4] Kristof Maes, AW Smyth, Guido De Roeck, and Geert Lombaert. Joint

input-state estimation in structural dynamics. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 70:445466, 2016.   
[5] Georgios Anagnostou and Bikash C Pal. Derivative-free kalman ltering based approaches to dynamic state estimation for power systems with unknown inputs. IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 33(1):116130, 2017.   
[6] E Lourens, Edwin Reynders, Guido De Roeck, Geert Degrande, and Geert Lombaert. An augmented kalman lter for force identication in structural dynamics. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 27: 446460, 2012.   
[7] Steven Gillijns and Bart De Moor. Unbiased minimum-variance input and state estimation for linear discrete-time systems. Automatica, 43 (1):111116, 2007.   
[8] Steven Gillijns and Bart De Moor. Unbiased minimum-variance input and state estimation for linear discrete-time systems with direct feedthrough. Automatica, 43(5):934937, 2007.   
[9] Juan Castiglione, Rodrigo Astroza, Saeed Eftekhar Azam, and Daniel Linzell. Auto-regressive model based input and parameter estimation for nonlinear nite element models. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 143:106779, 2020.   
[10] K Maes, Freddie Karlsson, and G Lombaert. Tracking of inputs, states and parameters of linear structural dynamic systems. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 130:755775, 2019.
