# References

[1] Frederick Stern, Zhaoyuan Wang, Jianming Yang, Hamid Sadat-Hosseini, Maysam Mousaviraad, Shanti Bhushan, Matteo Diez, Sung-Hwan Yoon, Ping-Chen Wu, Seong Mo Yeon, Timur Dogan, Dong-Hwan Kim, Silvia Volpi, Michael Conger, Thad Michael, Tao Xing, Robert S.
Thodal, and Joachim L.
Grenestedt.
Recent progress in cfd for naval architecture and ocean engineering.
Journal of Hydrodynamics, Ser.
B, 27(1):1–23, 2015.
[2] Andrea Serani, Matteo Diez, Frans van Walree, and Frederick Stern.
URANS analysis of a free-running destroyer sailing in irregular stern-quartering waves at sea state 7.
Ocean Engineering, 237:109600, 2021.
[3] Shawn Aram and Philipp Mucha.
CFD validation and analysis of turning maneuvers of a surface combatant in regular waves.
Ocean Engineering, 293:116653, 2024.
[4] H.
Yasukawa and Y.
Yoshimura.
Introduction of mmg standard method for ship maneuvering predictions.
Journal of Marine Science and Technology, 20(1):37–52, 3 2015.
[5] Hironori Yasukawa, Noritaka Hirata, and Yoshiyuki Nakayama.
High-speed ship maneuverability.
Journal of Ship Research, 60(04):239–258, 12 2016.
[6] Yugo Sanada, Sungtek Park, Dong-Hwan Kim, Zhaoyuan Wang, Frederick Stern, and Hironori Yasukawa.
Experimental and computational study of hull–propeller–rudder interaction for steady turning circles.
Physics of Fluids, 33(12):127117, 12 2021.
[7] Jyotsna Pandey and Kazuhiko Hasegawa.
Manoeuvring mathematical model of catamaran wave adaptive modular vessel (wam-v) using the system identification technique.
In Proceedings of 7th PAAMES and AMEC2016, volume 13, page 14, Hong Kong, China, 2016.
[8] Jyotsna Pandey and Kazuhiko Hasegawa.
Study on turning manoeuvre of catamaran surface vessel with a combined experimental and simulation method.
In 10th IFAC Conference on Control Applications in Marine Systems CAMS 13—16 September 2016, volume 49 (23), pages 446–451, Trondheim, Norway, 2016.
[9] Matteo Diez, Zhaoyuan Wang, Sungtek Park, Christian Milano, Frederick Stern, Hironori Yasukawa, Andrew Gunderson, and John Scherer.
Multi-fidelity mmg-model for digital design of high-speed small craft.
In SNAME Chesapeake Power Boat Symposium, page D011S002R003, 10 2024.
[10] Danny D’Agostino, Andrea Serani, Frederick Stern, and Matteo Diez.
Time-series forecasting for ships maneuvering in waves via recurrent-type neural networks.
