Muller, “Notes on data-driven ¨ output-feedback control of linear MIMO systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2025.
[15] J.
Eising and J.
Cortes, “When sampling works in data-driven control: Informativity for stabilization in continuous time,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2024.
[16] Z.
Hu, C.
De Persis, and P.
Tesi, “Enforcing contraction via data,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2025.
[17] P.
Rapisarda, H.
J.
van Waarde, and M.
C¸ amlibel, “Orthogonal polynomial bases for data-driven analysis and control of continuoustime systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
7, pp.
4307–4319, 2023.
[18] Y.
Ohta and P.
Rapisarda, “A sampling linear functional framework for data-driven analysis and control of continuous-time systems,” in 2024 IEEE 63rd Conference on Decision and Control, 2024, pp.
357–362.
[19] A.
Bosso, M.
Borghesi, A.
Iannelli, G.
Notarstefano, and A.
R.
Teel, “Derivative-free data-driven control of continuous-time linear timeinvariant systems,” European Journal of Control, p.
101309, 2025.
[20] ——, “Data-driven control of continuous-time LTI systems via non-minimal realizations,” 2025.
[Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/ abs/2505.22505   
[21] J.
W.
Polderman and J.
C.
Willems, Introduction to Mathematical Systems Theory: A Behavioral Approach.
New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1998.
[22] K.
S.
Narendra and A.
M.
Annaswamy, Stable Adaptive Systems.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1989.
[23] M.
Green and D.
J.
Limebeer, Linear Robust Control.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1995.
[24] J.
Lofberg, “YALMIP : A toolbox for modeling and optimization ¨ in MATLAB,” in In Proceedings of the CACSD Conference, Taipei, Taiwan, 2004.
[25] M.
ApS, The MOSEK optimization toolbox for MATLAB manual.
Version 10.2, 2024.
[Online].
Available: https://docs.mosek.com/10.2/ toolbox/index.html
