# 4. NUMERICAL EXAMPLES

This section presents three numerical examples covering data-driven smoothing, prediction, and control. 2 For each task, we compare the following methods: 1) Bayes: the proposed Bayesian framework (Algorithm 1) implemented with a nonlinear solver, 2) Approx : the approximate convex solution by implementing one SQP iteration as described in Section 3.2, 3) N4SID: the system identification paradigm where the model is identified with subspace identification by Matlab command n4sid, and 4) Proj : the framework presented in Breschi et al. (2023) where $H _ { y f }$ is first projected and then deterministic behavioral systems theory is applied (Markovsky and D¨orfler, 2022). For N4SID, we assume that the true model order is known and apply a Kalman filter on the identified state-space model to obtain state estimates. For Proj, we apply indirect data-driven control with the derived predictor.

For all tasks, 100 Monte Carlo simulations are conducted with the following parameters: $n _ { x } = 1 0 , n _ { u } = n _ { y } = 1$ , $L \ = \ 4 0 , \ L _ { 0 } \ = \ \mathrm { i } 0$ , and M = 61. Signal matrices are built using the Hankel construction with 100 data points. Random systems are generated by Matlab command drss unless otherwise stated. The systems are normalized to have an H2-norm of 1. Non-convex optimization problems are solved by Matlab command fmincon; convex optimization problems are solved by Mosek.

(T1) Smoothing. We assume that there are no actuation uncertainties. The measurement uncertainties are i.i.d. and subject to Student’s t-distributions with $\xi ~ = ~ 1 0$ , $\Sigma _ { v } ^ { d } ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 4 } { , }$ , and $\Sigma _ { v } ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 2 }$ . Figure 1(left) shows the boxplot of root mean squared errors for the smoothed outputs. Results show that Approx and Proj outperform Bayes and N4SID. The relatively poor performance of Bayes may result from the local minimum issue with nonconvex optimization.

(T2) Prediction. Both actuation and measurement uncertainties are i.i.d. Gaussian with $\Sigma _ { w } ^ { d } ( 0 ) = \Sigma _ { v } ^ { d } ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 4 }$ and $\Sigma _ { w } ( 0 ) = \Sigma _ { v } ( 0 ) = 1 0 ^ { - 2 }$ . Figure 1(middle) shows the boxplot of root mean squared errors for the predicted outputs. The Bayesian framework performs better than Proj and similar to N4SID. The approximate solution yields nearly identical results to the non-convex solution.
