[24] Z.-P.
Jiang, I.
M.
Mareels, and Y.
Wang, “A Lyapunov formulation of the nonlinear small-gain theorem for interconnected ISS systems,” Automatica, vol.
32, no.
8, pp.
1211–1215, 1996.
[25] D.
Liberzon, D.
Nesiˇ c, and A.
R.
Teel, “Lyapunov-based small-gain ´ theorems for hybrid systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic control, vol.
59, no.
6, pp.
1395–1410, 2014.
[26] C.
Kawan, A.
Mironchenko, A.
Swikir, N.
Noroozi, and M.
Zamani, “A Lyapunov-based small-gain theorem for infinite networks,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
12, pp.
5830–5844, 2020.
[27] H.
Li, T.
Liu, and Z.-P.
Jiang, “A Lyapunov-based small-gain theorem for a network of finite-time input-to-state stable systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
2, pp.
1052–1059, 2024.
[28] F.
Lopez-Ramirez, D.
Efimov, A.
Polyakov, and W.
Perruquetti, “Finitetime and fixed-time input-to-state stability: Explicit and implicit approaches,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
144, p.
104775, 2020.
[29] D.
Efimov and A.
Polyakov, “On converse lyapunov theorem for fixedtime input-to-state stability,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
62, no.
1, pp.
118–134, 2024.
[30] A.
Hauswirth, S.
Bolognani, G.
Hug, and F.
Dorfler, “Timescale sep- ¨ aration in autonomous optimization,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
2, pp.
611–624, 2021.
[31] M.
Colombino, E.
Dall’Anese, and A.
Bernstein, “Online optimization as a feedback controller: Stability and tracking,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
7, no.
1, pp.
422–432, 2020.
[32] G.
Bianchin, J.
I.
Poveda, and E.
Dall’Anese, “Online optimization of switched LTI systems using continuous-time and hybrid accelerated gradient flows,” Automatica, vol.
146, p.
110579, 2022.
[33] G.
Bianchin, J.
Cortes, J.
I.
Poveda, and E.
Dall’Anese, “Time-varying ´ optimization of LTI systems via projected primal-dual gradient flows,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
9, no.
1, pp.
474–486, 2022.
[34] A.
R.
Romano and L.
Pavel, “Game-theoretic steady-state control: A general framework for ne seeking with lti agents,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2025.
[35] G.
Belgioioso, D.
Liao-McPherson, M.
H.
de Badyn, S.
Bolognani, R.
S.
Smith, J.
Lygeros, and F.
Dorfler, “Online feedback equilibrium ¨ seeking,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
70, no.
1, pp.
203–218, 2024.
[36] M.
Tang, M.
