structured frameworks.
Journal of Power Sources, 652, 237483.
Haran, B.S., Popov, B.N., and White, R.E.
(1998).
Determination of the hydrogen diffusion coefficient in metal hydrides by impedance spectroscopy.
Journal of Power Sources, 75(1), 56–63.
Hosseininasab, S., Momtaheni, N., Pischinger, S., G¨unther, M., and Bauer, L.
(2023).
State-of-charge estimation of lithium-ion batteries using an adaptive dual unscented kalman filter based on a reduced-order model.
Journal of Energy Storage, 73, 109011.
Khalil, H.K.
and Grizzle, J.W.
(2002).
Nonlinear systems, volume 3.
Prentice hall Upper Saddle River, NJ.
Li, J., Wang, D., and Pecht, M.
(2019).
An electrochemical model for high c-rate conditions in lithium-ion batteries.
Journal of Power Sources, 436, 226885.
Li, J., Wang, L., Lyu, C., Liu, E., Xing, Y., and Pecht, M.
(2018).
A parameter estimation method for a simplified electrochemical model for li-ion batteries.
Electrochimica Acta, 275, 50–58.
Li, L.
and Xia, Y.
(2012).
Stochastic stability of the unscented kalman filter with intermittent observations.
Automatica, 48(5), 978–981.
Marquis, S.G., Sulzer, V., Timms, R., Please, C.P., and Chapman, S.J.
(2019).
An asymptotic derivation of a single particle model with electrolyte.
Journal of The Electrochemical Society, 166(15), A3693.
Plett, G.L.
(2004a).
Extended kalman filtering for battery management systems of lipb-based hev battery packs: Part 1.
background.
Journal of Power sources, 134(2), 252–261.
Plett, G.L.
(2004b).
Extended kalman filtering for battery management systems of lipb-based hev battery packs: Part 2.
modeling and identification.
Journal of Power Sources, 134(2), 262–276.
Plett, G.L.
(2004c).
Extended kalman filtering for battery management systems of lipb-based hev battery packs: Part 3.
state and parameter estimation.
Journal of Power sources, 134(2), 277–292.
Safari, M.
(2025).
A perspective on the battery value chain and the future of battery electric vehicles.
Battery Energy, 4(1), 20240016.
Slotine, J.J.E., Li, W., et al.
(1991).
Applied nonlinear control, volume 199.
Prentice hall Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
Wan, E.A.
and Nelson, A.T.
(2001).
Dual extended kalman filter methods.
Kalman filtering and neural networks, 123–173.
Yang, A., Wang, Y., Yang, F., Wang, D., Zi, Y., Tsui, K.L., and Zhang, B.
(2019).

A comprehensive investigation of lithium-ion battery degradation performance at different discharge rates.
Journal of Power Sources, 443, 227108.
Zhang, Q.
(2026).
Stability analysis of the kalman filter under practical conditions.
Automatica, 183, 112670.
