# REFERENCES

[1] J.
Adamy and A.
Flemming, Soft variable-structure controls: a survey, Automatica, 40 (2004), pp.
1821–1844.
[2] V.
Andrieu, L.
Praly, and A.
Astolfi, Homogeneous approximation, recursive observer design, and output feedback, SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 47 (2008), pp.
1814– 1850.
[3] G.
Bartolini, A.
Pisano, E.
Punta, and E.
Usai, A survey of applications of second-order sliding mode control to mechanical systems, International Journal of control, 76 (2003), pp.
875–892.
[4] E.
Bernuau, A.
Polyakov, D.
Efimov, and W.
Perruquetti, Verification of ISS, iISS and IOSS properties applying weighted homogeneity, System & Control Letters, 62 (2013), pp.
1159–1167.
[5] I.
M.
Boiko, On relative degree, chattering and fractal nature of parasitic dynamics in sliding mode control, Journal of the Franklin Institute, 351 (2014), pp.
1939–1952.
[6] F.
Castanos and L.
Fridman, Analysis and design of integral sliding manifolds for systems with unmatched perturbations, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 51 (2006), pp.
853–858, https://doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2006.875008.
[7] H.
H.
Choi, On the existence of linear sliding surfaces for a class of uncertain dynamic systems with mismatched uncertainties, Automatica, 35 (1999), pp.
1707–1715, https://doi.org/ https://doi.org/10.1016/S0005-1098(99)00081-3.
[8] E.
Cruz-Zavala and J.
A.
Moreno, Higher order sliding mode control using discontinuous integral action, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 65 (2019), pp.
4316–4323.
[9] S.
Dashkovskiy, D.
V.
Efimov, and E.
D.
Sontag, Input to state stability and allied system properties, Automation and Remote Control, 72 (2011), pp.
1579–1614.
[10] D.
Efimov and A.
Aleksandrov, On equivalence of Lyapunov-Razumikhin conditions and iss for a class of time-delay systems, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, (2024).
[11] D.
Efimov and A.
Polyakov, Finite-time stability tools for control and estimation, Foundations and Trends in Systems and Control, 9 (2021), pp.
171–364, https://doi.org/10.1561/ 2600000026.
[12] D.
Efimov, A.
Polyakov, L.
Fridman, W.
Perruquetti, and J.-P.
Richard, Delayed sliding mode control, Automatica, 64 (2016), pp.
37–43.
[13] A.
Estrada, L.
Fridman, and R.
Iriarte, Combined backstepping and HOSM control design for a class of nonlinear MIMO systems, International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 27 (2017), pp.
