# B.2. Adaptive Camera Control Algorithm

We determine the weights of GA loss and task loss when updating the ACC model, the population size used to optimise perturbations for dynamic parameters, and the frequency of applying the GA loss based on experimental results. Preliminary experiments are first conducted to identify suitable value ranges for these hyperparameters. We then select the final values through empirical tuning based on performance. The results and analysis from the empirical value selection in the chosen ranges are presented in this section.

Weight of Loss Function Our DF-Grad optimisation scheme uses a combined task loss and GA loss, as described in Sec. 5 of the main paper, to train the ACC algorithm. We fix the weight of the GA loss at 1, and vary the task loss weight to determine the optimal value. We show the results of using a weight of 5, 7, and 9 in Tab. 4. The results suggest that a weight of 7 best balances the unsupervised learning signal from the task model with the supervision from GA, yielding the best task performance. The results also indicate that the camera hardware design is relatively insensitive to changes in the task loss weight.

Population Size We conduct experiments with varying population sizes for the GA optimisation of exposure perturbations. Results are summarised in Tab. 5. A population

Table 4. Camera designs and object detection performance for task loss weights of 5, 7, and 9 used during ACC algorithm training. The results indicate that a weight of 7 yields the best task performance.

<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Weight</td><td colspan="5">Camera Parameters</td><td colspan="2">Performance</td></tr><tr><td>Forward Position x (m)</td><td>Height z (m)</td><td>Focal Length f (mm)</td><td>Sensor Size w × h (mm)</td><td>Pixel Size p (μm)</td><td>Object Detect. mAP ↑</td><td>True Positive Ratio TP/All@180° ↑</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>1.34 ●</td><td>1.35 ●</td><td>4.91 ●</td><td>5.70×4.28 ●</td><td>2.2 ●</td><td>0.293</td><td>0.366</td></tr><tr><td>7 (Proposed)</td><td>1.35 ●</td><td>1.3 ●</td><td>5.19 ●</td><td>7.37×4.92 ●</td><td>2.4 ●</td><td>0.325</td><td>0.390</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>1.31 ●</td><td>1.30 ●</td><td>5.76 ●</td><td>6.77×5.66 ●</td><td>2.74 ●</td><td>0.296</td><td>0.361</td></tr></table>
