[7] Ü.
Özgüner and E.
J.
Davison, “Sampling and decentralized fixed modes,” in Proceedings of the 1985 American Control Conference, pp.
257–262, 1985.
[8] A.
G.
Aghdam and E.
J.
Davison, “Discrete-time control of continuous systems with approximate decentralized fixed modes,” Automatica, vol.
44, no.
1, pp.
75–87, 2008.
[9] L.
Trave, A.
Tarras, and A.
Titli, “An application of vibrational control to cancel unstable decentralized fixed modes,” IEEE transactions on automatic control, vol.
30, no.
3, pp.
283–286, 1985.
[10] S.
Lee, S.
Meerkov, and T.
Runolfsson, “Vibrational feedback control: Zeros placement capabilities,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
32, no.
7, pp.
604–611, 1987.
[11] B.
Anderson and J.
B.
Moore, “Time-varying feedback laws for decentralized control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
26, no.
5, pp.
1133–1139, 1981.
[12] P.
P.
Khargonekar and A.
B.
Özgüler, “Decentralized control and periodic feedback,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
39, no.
4, pp.
877–882, 1994.
[13] D.
D.
Šiljak and A.
Zecevi ˇ c, “Control of large-scale systems: Beyond ´ decentralized feedback,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol.
29, no.
2, pp.
169–179, 2005.
[14] J.
Lavaei and A.
G.
Aghdam, “Control of continuous-time LTI systems by means of structurally constrained controllers,” Automatica, vol.
44, no.
1, pp.
141–148, 2008.
[15] J.
Lavaei and A.
G.
Aghdam, “Overlapping control design for multichannel systems,” Automatica, vol.
45, no.
5, pp.
1326–1331, 2009.
[16] S.
Sojoudi and A.
G.
Aghdam, “Overlapping control systems with optimal information exchange,” Automatica, vol.
45, no.
5, pp.
1176– 1181, 2009.
[17] Y.
R.
Stürz, A.
Eichler, and R.
S.
Smith, “Fixed mode elimination by minimum communication within an estimator-based framework for distributed control,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
1, no.
2, pp.
346– 351, 2017.
[18] Z.
Sun, A.
Rantzer, Z.
Li, and A.
Robertsson, “Distributed adaptive stabilization,” Automatica, vol.
129, p.
109616, 2021.
[19] W.
Ren and R.
W.
Beard, Distributed Consensus in Multi-Vehicle Cooperative Control: Theory and Applications.
London, UK: Springer, 2008.
[20] Z.
Li and Z.
Duan, Cooperative Control of Multi-Agent Aystems: A Consensus Region Approach.
Boca Raton, FL, USA: CRC Press, 2017.
[21] K.
Liu, H.
Zhu, and J.
