# 7.5. Machine Learning vs Data-driven System Representations

We discussed the emerging paradigm of data-driven representations for control in Section 6, including approaches to provide guaranteed inferences on control-theoretic properties even in presence of noise. However, the system representations for nonlinear systems are tailored towards system analysis and control design using LMI techniques. Therefore, the nonlinearity of the system can not precisely be incorporated into a datadriven system representation, thus yielding conservative results that may only hold locally. On the other hand, models from machine learning are flexible and can explain complex nonlinear phenomena. However, the obtained system representations are usually strongly nonlinear, and are hence difficult to exploit for system analysis and control. Thus, closing the gap between data-driven system representations tailored for control and machine learning approximations can be an interesting direction for future research. Thereby, the benefits of both worlds could be fused into a new class of surrogate models. Initial works in this direction include, for instance, Hu et al. (2023) and Fiedler et al. (2021). Related to merging these two worlds, it is important to note that data-driven control lacks standardized datasets and benchmarks as is common in the machine learning community, which makes meaningful comparison of different frameworks challenging. Developing such benchmarks and meaningful control-relevant use cases will be important to enable rapid advances in this area.
