Lü, “Cooperative stabilization of a class of LTI plants with distributed observers,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, vol.
64, no.
7, pp.
1891–1902, 2017.
[22] K.
Liu, Y.
Chen, Z.
Duan, and J.
Lü, “Cooperative output regulation of LTI plant via distributed observers with local measurement,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
48, no.
7, pp.
2181–2191, 2018.
[23] X.
Zhang, K.
Hengster-Movric, M.
Šebek, W.
Desmet, and C.
Faria, ´ “Distributed observer and controller design for spatially interconnected systems,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
27, no.
1, pp.
1–13, 2019.
[24] F.
C.
Rego, Y.
Pu, A.
Alessandretti, A.
P.
Aguiar, A.
M.
Pascoal, and C.
N.
Jones, “A distributed Luenberger observer for linear state feedback systems with quantized and rate-limited communications,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
66, no.
9, pp.
3922–3937, 2021.
[25] P.
Duan, Y.
Lv, G.
Wen, and M.
Ogorzałek, “A framework on fully distributed state estimation and cooperative stabilization of LTI plants,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
10, pp.
6746– 6761, 2024.
[26] L.
Wang, D.
Fullmer, F.
Liu, and A.
S.
Morse, “Distributed control of linear multi-channel systems: Summary of results,” in Proceedings of the 2020 American Control Conference, pp.
4576–4581, IEEE, 2020.
[27] F.
Liu, L.
Wang, D.
Fullmer, and A.
S.
Morse, “Distributed feedback control of multichannel linear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
12, pp.
7164–7178, 2023.
[28] L.
Wang and A.
S.
Morse, “A distributed observer for a time-invariant linear system,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
63, no.
7, pp.
2123–2130, 2018.
[29] S.
P.
Talebi and S.
Werner, “Distributed Kalman filtering and control through embedded average consensus information fusion,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
64, no.
10, pp.
4396–4403, 2019.
[30] P.
Duan, L.
He, Z.
Duan, and L.
Shi, “Distributed cooperative lqr design for multi-input linear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
10, no.
2, pp.
680–692, 2023.
[31] P.
Duan, T.
Liu, Y.
Lv, and G.
Wen, “Cooperative control of multichannel linear systems with self-organizing private agents,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
11, no.
4, pp.
1937–1948, 2024.
