Arcak, M., 2022. Compositional design and verification of large-scale systems using dissipativity theory: Determining stability and performance from subsystem properties and interconnection structures. IEEE Control Systems Magazine 42, 51–62.   
Arcak, M., Meissen, C., Packard, A., 2016. Networks of dissipative systems: compositional certification of stability, performance, and safety. Springer.   
Ayankoso, S., Olejnik, P., 2023. Time-series machine learning techniques for modeling and identification of mechatronic systems with friction: A review and real application. Electronics 12.   
Bai, S., Kolter, J.Z., Koltun, V., 2019. Deep equilibrium models. Advances in neural information processing systems 32.   
Bao, J., Lee, P.L., 2007. Process control: the passive systems approach. Springer Science & Business Media.   
Beattie, C., Mehrmann, V., Xu, H., Zwart, H., 2018. Linear port-Hamiltonian descriptor systems. Mathematics of Control, Signals, and Systems 30.   
Beattie, C.A., Mehrmann, V., Van Dooren, P., 2019. Robust port-Hamiltonian representations of passive systems. Automatica 100, 182–186.   
Beckers, T., 2023. Data-driven Bayesian Control of Port-Hamiltonian Systems, in: IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).   
Beckers, T., Seidman, J., Perdikaris, P., Pappas, G.J., 2022. Gaussian Process Port-Hamiltonian Systems: Bayesian Learning with Physics Prior, in: IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 1447–1453.   
Benner, P., Goyal, P., Van Dooren, P., 2020. Identification of port-Hamiltonian systems from frequency response data. Systems and Control Letters 143, 104741.   
Berberich, J., Köhler, J., Müller, M.A., Allgöwer, F., 2021. Data-driven model predictive control with stability and robustness guarantees. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 66, 1702–1717.   
Berberich, J., Köhler, J., Müller, M.A., Allgöwer, F., 2022a. Linear tracking mpc for nonlinear systems—part ii: The data-driven case. IEEE Trans. Automat. Control 67, 4406– 4421.   
Berberich, J., Scherer, C.W., Allgöwer, F., 2022b. Combining prior knowledge and data for robust controller design. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 68, 4618–4633.   
Berkenkamp, F., Moriconi, R., Schoellig, A.P., Krause, A., 2016. Safe learning of regions of attraction for uncertain, nonlinear systems with gaussian processes, in: IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 4661–4666.
