# REFERENCES

B˚ankestad, M.M., Sj¨olund, J., Taghia, J., and Sch¨on, T.B. (2023). Variational elliptical processes. Transactions on Machine Learning Research.

Berberich, J., K¨ohler, J., M¨uller, M.A., and Allg¨ower, F.
(2021).
Data-driven model predictive control with stability and robustness guarantees.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 66(4), 1702–1717.
Breschi, V., Chiuso, A., and Formentin, S.
(2023).
Data-driven predictive control in a stochastic setting: a unified framework.
Automatica, 152, 110961.
Chiuso, A., Fabris, M., Breschi, V., and Formentin, S.
(2025).
Harnessing uncertainty for a separation principle in direct datadriven predictive control.
Automatica, 173, 112070.
Coulson, J., Lygeros, J., and D¨orfler, F.
(2019).
Data-enabled predictive control: In the shallows of the DeePC.
In European Control Conference (ECC), 307–312.
Coulson, J., Lygeros, J., and D¨orfler, F.
(2022).
Distributionally robust chance constrained data-enabled predictive control.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 67(7), 3289–3304.
Damen, A., Van den Hof, P., and Hajdasinski, A.
(1982).
Approximate realization based upon an alternative to the Hankel matrix: the Page matrix.
Systems & Control Letters, 2(4), 202–208.
D¨orfler, F., Coulson, J., and Markovsky, I.
(2023).
Bridging direct & indirect data-driven control formulations via regularizations and relaxations.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 68(2), 883–897.
Fiedler, F.
and Lucia, S.
(2021).
On the relationship between dataenabled predictive control and subspace predictive control.
In European Control Conference (ECC), 222–229.
Hult, H.
and Lindskog, F.
(2002).
Multivariate extremes, aggregation and dependence in elliptical distributions.
Advances in Applied Probability, 34(3), 587–608.
Iannelli, A., Yin, M., and Smith, R.S.
(2021).
Design of input for data-driven simulation with Hankel and Page matrices.
In IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 139–145.
Lian, Y., Shi, J., Koch, M., and Jones, C.N.
(2023).
Adaptive robust data-driven building control via bilevel reformulation: An experimental result.
IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 31(6), 2420–2436.
Markovsky, I.
and D¨orfler, F.
(2021).
Behavioral systems theory in data-driven analysis, signal processing, and control.
Annual Reviews in Control, 52, 42–64.
Markovsky, I.
and D¨orfler, F.
(2022).
Data-driven dynamic interpolation and approximation.
Automatica, 135, 110008.
Markovsky, I.
and D¨orfler, F.
(2023).
Identifiability in the behavioral setting.
