# REFERENCES

˚Astr¨om, K. and H¨agglund, T. (2006). Advanced PID control. ISA - Instrumentation, Systems and Automation Society.   
Athans, M. (1963). Minimum-fuel feedback control systems: Second-order case. IEEE Transactions on Applications and Industry, 82(65), 8–17.   
Khalil, H. (2002). Nonlinear systems. Prentice Hall, third edition.   
Kwakernaak, H. (1993). Robust control and H-infinity optimization – tutorial paper. Automatica, 29(2), 255– 273.   
Levant, A. (2005). Quasi-continuous high-order slidingmode controllers. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 50(11), 1812–1816.   
Lin, Y., Sontag, E., and Wang, Y. (1996). A smooth converse Lyapunov theorem for robust stability. SIAM Journal Control Optimization, 34(1), 124–160.   
Polyakov, A. and Krstic, M. (2023). Finite- and fixedtime nonovershooting stabilizers and safety filters by homogeneous feedback. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 68(11), 6434–6449.   
Ruderman, M. (2021). Optimal nonlinear damping control of second-order systems. Journal of the Franklin Institute, 358, 4292–4302.   
Ruderman, M. (2022). Motion control with optimal nonlinear damping: from theory to experiment. Control Engineering Practice, 127, 105310.   
Ruderman, M. and Efimov, D. (2025). Non-overshooting quasi-continuous sliding mode control for second-order systems. European Journal of Control, 85, 101355.   
Shtessel, Y., Edwards, C., Fridman, L., and Levant, A. (2014). Sliding mode control and observation. Springer.   
Tsypkin, Y. (1984). Relay control systems. Cambridge University Press.   
Utkin, V., Poznyak, A., Orlov, Y., and Polyakov, A. (2020). Road map for sliding mode control design. Springer.   
Young, W. (1912). On classes of summable functions and their Fourier series. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series A, Containing Papers of a Mathematical and Physical Character, 87(594), 225–229.
