# REFERENCES

[1] S.
P.
Bhat and D.
S.
Bernstein, “Finite-time stability of continuous autonomous systems,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
38, no.
3, pp.
751–766, 2000.
[2] Y.
Hong, Z.-P.
Jiang, and G.
Feng, “Finite-time input-to-state stability and applications to finite-time control design,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
48, no.
7, pp.
4395–4418, 2010.
[3] V.
Andrieu, L.
Praly, and A.
Astolfi, “Homogeneous approximation, recursive observer design, and output feedback,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
47, no.
4, pp.
1814–1850, 2008.
[4] A.
Polyakov, “Nonlinear feedback design for fixed-time stabilization of linear control systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
57, no.
8, pp.
2106–2110, 2012.
[5] Y.
Liu, H.
Li, R.
Lu, Z.
Zuo, and X.
Li, “An overview of finite/fixed-time control and its application in engineering systems,” IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol.
9, no.
12, pp.
2106–2120, 2022.
[6] C.
Hu, H.
He, and H.
Jiang, “Fixed/preassigned-time synchronization of complex networks via improving fixed-time stability,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
51, no.
6, pp.
2882–2892, 2020.
[7] M.
Tang, M.
Krstic, and J.
I.
Poveda, “Filterless fixed-time extremum seeking for scalar quadratic maps,” in 2024 IEEE 63rd Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2024, pp.
5256–5261.
[8] J.
I.
Poveda, M.
Krstic, and T.
Bas¸ar, “Fixed-time Nash equilibrium´ seeking in time-varying networks,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
4, pp.
1954–1969, 2023.
[9] C.
Chen, L.
Li, H.
Peng, Y.
Yang, L.
Mi, and H.
Zhao, “A new fixed-time stability theorem and its application to the fixed-time synchronization of neural networks,” Neural Networks, vol.
123, pp.
412–419, 2020.
[10] Y.
Lei, Y.-W.
Wang, I.-C.
Morarescu, and R.
Postoyan, “Event-triggered ˘ fixed-time stabilization of two time scales linear systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
68, no.
3, pp.
1722–1729, 2023.
[11] M.
Tang, M.
Krstic, and J.
I.
Poveda, “On fixed-time stability for a class of singularly perturbed systems using composite Lyapunov functions,” in 2024 American Control Conference (ACC), 2024, pp.
4783–4788.
[12] M.
Tang, M.
Krstic, and J.
I.
Poveda, “Fixed-time input-to-state stability ´ for singularly perturbed systems via composite Lyapunov functions,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, pp.
1–8, 2025.
[13] K.
Zimenko, D.
