Perruquetti, Robust stabilization of MIMO systems in finite/fixed time, International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 26 (2016), pp.
69– 90.
[37] A.
Polyakov, D.
Efimov, W.
Perruquetti, and J.-P.
Richard, Implicit Lyapunov-Krasovski functionals for stability analysis and control design of time-delay systems, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 60 (2015), pp.
3344–3349.
[38] T.
Sanchez and J.
A.
Moreno, Design of lyapunov functions for a class of homogeneous systems: Generalized forms approach, International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, 29 (2019), pp.
661–681.
[39] Y.
Shtessel, C.
Edwards, L.
Fridman, and A.
Levant, Sliding Mode Control and Observation, vol.
10 of Control Engineering, Birkh¨auser, New York, NY, 2014, https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-0-8176-4893-0, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-8176-4893-0.
Includes exercises and real-world case studies.
[40] E.
Sontag, Input to state stability: Basic concepts and results, in Nonlinear and Optimal Control Theory, P.
P.
Nistri and G.
Stefani, eds., Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2007, pp.
163– 220.
[41] S.
K.
Spurgeon, Sliding mode observers: A survey, International Journal of Systems Science, 39 (2008), pp.
751–764.
[42] A.
R.
Teel, Connections between Razumikhin-type theorems and the iss nonlinear small gain theorem, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 43 (1998), pp.
960–964.
[43] V.
Utkin, Variable structure systems with sliding modes, IEEE Transactions on Automatic control, 22 (1977), pp.
212–222.
[44] V.
Utkin, J.
Guldner, and J.
Shi, Sliding mode control in electro-mechanical systems, CRC press, 2017.
[45] C.
Zhang, J.
Yang, Y.
Yan, L.
Fridman, and S.
Li, Semiglobal finite-time trajectory tracking realization for disturbed nonlinear systems via higher-order sliding modes, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 65 (2020), pp.
2185–2191, https://doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2019.
2937853.
