In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society, 81–90.
Khuwaja, A.A., Chen, Y., Zhao, N., Alouini, M.S., and Dobbins, P.
(2018).
A survey of channel modeling for uav communications.
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 20(4), 2804–2821.
Le Ny, J.
and Pappas, G.J.
(2014).
Differentially private filtering.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 59(2), 341–354.
Li, T.
and Wang, J.
(2018).
Distributed averaging with random network graphs and noises.
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 64(11), 7063–7080.
Li, X., Soh, Y.C., Xie, L., and Lewis, F.L.
(2018).
Cooperative output regulation of heterogeneous linear multiagent networks via $H _ { \infty }$ performance allocation.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 64(2), 683–696.

Liu, D. and Simeone, O. (2020). Privacy for free: wireless federated learning via uncoded transmission with adaptive power control. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 39(1), 170–185.   
Liu, D. and Simeone, O. (2022). Wireless federated langevin monte carlo: repurposing channel noise for bayesian sampling and privacy. IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 22(5), 2946–2961.   
Liu, H., Yan, J., and Zhang, Y.J.A. (2024). Differentially private over-the-air federated learning over mimo fading channels. IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 23(8), 8232–8247.   
Liu, L., Kawano, Y., and Cao, M. (2026). Design of stochastic quantizers for privacy-preserving control. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control.   
Nozari, E., Tallapragada, P., and Cort´es, J. (2015). Differentially private average consensus with optimal noise selection. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 48(22), 203–208.   
Nozari, E., Tallapragada, P., and Cort´es, J. (2017). Differentially private average consensus: Obstructions, tradeoffs, and optimal algorithm design. Automatica, 81, 221–
