# REFERENCES

Annaswamy, A.M., Khargonekar, P.P., Spurgeon, S.K., et al.
(2023).
Cyber-physical-human systems: fundamentals and applications.
John Wiley & Sons.
Ash, R.B.
(2014).
Real analysis and probability: probability and mathematical statistics: a series of monographs and textbooks.
Academic press.
Bemporad, A., Borrelli, F., Morari, M., et al.
(2002).
Model predictive control based on linear programming the explicit solution.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 47(12), 1974–1985.
Cao, H., Shen, J., Zhang, Y., Fu, Z., Liu, C., Sun, S., and Zhao, S.
(2025).
Proximal cooperative aerial manipulation with vertically stacked drones.
Nature, 1–8.
Cao, X., Zhu, G., Xu, J., and Huang, K.
(2020).
Optimized power control for over-the-air computation in fading channels.
IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 19(11), 7498–7513.
Cort´es, J., Dullerud, G.E., Han, S., Le Ny, J., Mitra, S., and Pappas, G.J.
(2016).
Differential privacy in control and network systems.
In 2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 4252–4272.
IEEE.
Dimarogonas, D.V.
and Johansson, K.H.
(2010).
Stability analysis for multi-agent systems using the incidence matrix: quantized communication and formation control.
Automatica, 46(4), 695–700.
Dwork, C., McSherry, F., Nissim, K., and Smith, A.
(2006).
Calibrating noise to sensitivity in private data analysis.
In Theory of Cryptography Conference, 265– 284.
Springer.
Dwork, C., Roth, A., et al.
(2014).
The algorithmic foundations of differential privacy.
Foundations and Trends in Theoretical Computer Science, 9(3–4), 211– 407.
D’Alfonso, L.
and Fedele, G.
(2025).
Hierarchical structures in multi-agent systems: containment control and opinion dynamics.
Systems & Control Letters, 204, 106188.
Hawkins, C.
and Hale, M.
(2020).
Differentially private formation control.
In 2020 59th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 6260–6265.
IEEE.
Huang, B., Xie, L., and Yang, Z.
(2014).
Tdoa-based source localization with distance-dependent noises.
IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 14(1), 468–480.
Huang, L., Wu, J., Shi, D., Dey, S., and Shi, L.
(2024).
Differential privacy in distributed optimization with gradient tracking.
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 69(9), 5727–5742.
Huang, Z., Mitra, S., and Dullerud, G.
(2012).
Differentially private iterative synchronous consensus.
