[10] Milad Hasanzadeh, Mahdi Baradarannia, and Farzad Hashemzadeh.
Distributed fixed-time rotating encirclement control of linear multi-agent systems with moving targets.
Journal of the Franklin Institute, 361(11):106970, 2024.
[11] Milad Hasanzadeh and Shu-Xia Tang.
Dynamic average consensus as distributed PDE-based control for multi-agent systems.
In 2024 European Control Conference (ECC), pages 828–833.
IEEE, 2024.
[12] Mingyi Hong, Zhi-Quan Luo, and Meisam Razaviyayn.
Convergence analysis of alternating direction method of multipliers for a family of nonconvex problems.
SIAM Journal on Optimization, 26(1):337–364, 2016.
[13] A Jenefa, K Vidhya, Antony Taurshia, V Edward Naveen, Bessy M Kuriakose, and V Vijula.
Enhancing distributed agent environments with quantum multi-agent systems and protocols.
Multiagent and Grid Systems, 20(2):109–127, 2024.
[14] Amin Kargarian, Javad Mohammadi, Junyao Guo, Sambuddha Chakrabarti, Masoud Barati, Gabriela Hug, Soummya Kar, and Ross Baldick.
Toward distributed/decentralized dc optimal power flow implementation in future electric power systems.
IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 9(4):2574–2594, 2016.
[15] Mehran Mesbahi and Magnus Egerstedt.
Graph theoretic methods in multiagent networks.
2010.
[16] Ashley Montanaro.
Quantum algorithms: an overview.
npj Quantum Information, 2(1):1–8, 2016.
[17] Mario Motta, Chong Sun, Adrian TK Tan, Matthew J O’Rourke, Erika Ye, Austin J Minnich, Fernando GSL Brandao, and Garnet Kin-Lic Chan.
Determining eigenstates and thermal states on a quantum computer using quantum imaginary time evolution.
Nature Physics, 16(2):205–210, 2020.
[18] Michael A Nielsen and Isaac L Chuang.
Quantum computation and quantum information.
Cambridge university press, 2010.
[19] Reza Olfati-Saber, J Alex Fax, and Richard M Murray.
Consensus and cooperation in networked multi-agent systems.
Proceedings of the IEEE, 95(1):215–233, 2007.
[20] Alberto Peruzzo, Jarrod McClean, Peter Shadbolt, Man-Hong Yung, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Peter J Love, Al´an Aspuru-Guzik, and Jeremy L O’brien.
A variational eigenvalue solver on a photonic quantum processor.
Nature communications, 5(1):4213, 2014.
[21] John Preskill.
Quantum Computing in the NISQ era and beyond.
Quantum, 2:79, August 2018.
[22] Mohammad Rafiee and Alexandre M Bayen.
