Chilali and P.
Gahinet, “H∞ design with pole placement constraints: an LMI approach,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
41, no.
3, pp.
358- 367, 1996.
[29] A.
Megretski and A.
Rantzer, “System analysis via integral quadratic constraints,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.42, no.
6, pp.
819-830, Jun.
1997.
[30] C.W.
Scherer and I.E.
Kose, “Robustness with dynamic IQCs: An ¨ exact state-space characterization of nominal stability with applications to robust estimation,” Automatica, vol.
44, pp.
1666-1675, 2008.
[31] J.
Veenman, C.
W.
Scherer and H.
Koro ¨ ‘glu, “Robust stability and performance analysis with integral quadratic constraints,” European Journal of Control, vol.
31, pp.
1-32, 2016.
[32] P.
Seiler, “Stability analysis with dissipation inequalities and integral quadratic constraints,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
60, no.
6, pp.
1704-1709, Jun.
2015.
[33] S.
Wang, H.
Pfifer and P.
Seiler, “Robust synthesis for linear parameter varying systems using integral quadratic constraints,”, Automatica, vol.
68, pp.
111-118, 2016.
[34] C.Z.
Yuan and F.
Wu, “Dynamic IQC-based analysis and synthesis of networked control systems,” in American Control Conference, Boston, MA, USA, July 6-8, 2016.
[35] C.
Yuan and F.
Wu, “Dynamic IQC-based control of uncertain LFT systems with time-varying state delay,” IEEE Trans.
Cybernetics, vol.
46, no.
12, pp.
3320-3329, 2016.
[36] C.
Yuan and F.
Wu, “Exact-memory and memoryless control of linear systems with time-varying input delay using dynamic IQCs,” Automatica, vol.
77, pp.
246-253, 2017.
[37] D.F.
Coutinho and M.
Fu, “Optimal control of linear systems with input saturation using IQCs,” IFAC Proceedings Volumes, vol.
35, no.
1, pp.
347-352, 2002.
[38] A.
Iannelli, P.
Seiler, and A.
Peter, “Estimating the Region of Attraction of uncertain systems with Integral Quadratic Constraints,” IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp.
3922–3927, 2018.
[39] A.
Iannelli, P.
Seiler, and A.
Peter, “Region of attraction analysis with integral quadratic constraints,” Automatica, vol.
109, no.
1, pp.
347-352, 2019.
