# REFERENCES

[1] Y. Chen, K. Strunz, X. Wang, L. Wang, K. Wang, P. Li, J. Xu, S. Huang, Y. Xia, J. Xu, and X. Fu, “Guest editorial: Models, methods, and platforms for electromagnetic transient simulation of modern power systems with high penetration power electronic integration,” IET Renewable Power Generation, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 1–5, Jan. 2023.   
[2] H. Li, D. Liu, and D. Yao, “Analysis and reflection on the development of power system towards the goal of carbon emission peak and carbon neutrality,” Proceedings of the CSEE, vol. 41, no. 18, pp. 6245–6259, Sep. 2021.   
[3] N. Sharma and Y. Lin, “Parameter error identification for validation and calibration of dynamic models of inverter-based resources,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 396–412, Jan. 2026.   
[4] X. Xie, J. He, H. Mao, and H. Li, “New issues and classification of power system stability with high shares of renewables and power electronics,” Proceedings of the CSEE, vol. 41, no. 2, pp. 461–475, Jan. 2021.   
[5] Y. Pan, F. Liu, L. Chen, J. Wang, F. Qiu, C. Shen, and S. Mei, “Towards the robust small-signal stability region of power systems under perturbations such as uncertain and volatile wind generation,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 1790–1799, 2018.   
[6] R. Rosso, X. Wang, M. Liserre, X. Lu, and S. Engelken, “Grid-forming converters: control approaches, grid-synchronization, and future trends— a review,” IEEE Open Journal of Industry Applications, vol. 2, pp. 93– 109, Apr. 2021.   
[7] H. Liu, S. Yu, D. Sun, L. Wu, Y. Li, and X. Wang, “An overview of control technologies and principles for grid-forming converters,” Proceedings of the CSEE, vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 277–297, Jan. 2025.   
[8] M. Zhao, X. Yuan, J. Hu, and Y. Yan, “Voltage dynamics of current control time-scale in a VSC-connected weak grid,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 2925–2937, Jul. 2016.   
[9] B. K. Poolla, D. Groß, and F. Dorfler, “Placement and implementation ¨ of grid-forming and grid-following virtual inertia and fast frequency response,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 3035–3046, Jul. 2019.   
[10] X. Zhang, M. Li, Z. Guo, J. Wanng, F. Han, and X. Fu, “Review and perspectives on control strategies for renewable energy grid-connected inverters,” Journal of Global Energy Interconnection, vol. 4, no. 5, pp. 506–515, Sep. 2021.
