# References

[1] R.
E.
Kalman et al., “Contributions to the theory of optimal control,” Bol.
soc.
mat.
mexicana, vol.
5, no.
2, pp.
102–119, 1960.
[2] J.
C.
Doyle et al., “State-space solutions to standard H2 and $\mathcal { H } _ { \infty }$ control problems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
34, no.
8, pp.
831–847, 1989.
[3] K.
Glover and J.
C.
Doyle, “State-space formulae for all stabilizing controllers that satisfy an $\mathbf { \hat { H } } _ { \infty }$ -norm bound and relations to relations to risk sensitivity,” Systems & control letters, vol.
11, no.
3, pp.
167–172, 1988.
[4] D.
S.
Bernstein and W.
M.
Haddad, “LQG control with an H∞ performance bound: a Riccati equation approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
34, no.
3, pp.
293–305, 1989.
[5] P.
P.
Khargonekar and M.
A.
Rotea, “Mixed $H _ { 2 } / H _ { \infty }$ control: a convex optimization approach,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
36, no.
7, pp.
824–837, 1991.
[6] I.
Kaminer, P.
P.
Khargonekar, and M.
A.
Rotea, “Mixed $H _ { 2 } / \dot { H } _ { \infty }$ control for discrete-time systems via convex optimization,” Automatica, vol.
29, no.
1, pp.
57–70, 1993.
[7] P.
Apkarian, D.
Noll, and A.
Rondepierre, “Mixed $H _ { 2 } / H _ { \infty }$ control via nonsmooth optimization,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
47, no.
3, pp.
1516–1546, 2008.
[8] B.
Hu et al., “Toward a theoretical foundation of policy optimization for learning control policies,” Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, vol.
6, pp.
123– 158, 2023.
[9] S.
Talebi et al., “Policy optimization in control: Geometry and algorithmic implications,” preprint, 2024.
[10] B.
Recht, “A tour of reinforcement learning: The view from continuous control,” Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, vol.
2, pp.
253–279, 2019.
[11] J.
Perdomo, J.
Umenberger, and M.
Simchowitz, “Stabilizing dynamical systems via policy gradient methods,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
34.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2021, pp.
29 274–29 286.
[12] F.
Zhao, X.
Fu, and K.
You, “On the sample complexity of stabilizing linear systems via policy gradient methods,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.14335, 2022.
[13] M.
Fazel et al., “Global convergence of policy gradient methods for the linear quadratic regulator,” in International conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2018, pp.
1467–1476.
[14] H.
