# REFERENCES

[1] J. Becker and T. Meurer. “Feedforward tracking control for nonuniform Timoshenko beam models: combining differential flatness, modal analysis, and FEM”. In: J. Appl. Math. Mech. 87.1 (2006), pp. 37–58.   
[2] G. Chen, R. Vazquez, and M. Krstic. “Rapid stabilization of Timoshenko beam by PDE Backstepping”. In: IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr. 69.2 (2024), pp. 1141–1148.

[3] R.
Curtain and H.
Zwart.
Introduction to Infinite-Dimensional Systems Theory: A State-Space Approach.
Springer New York, 2020.
[4] S.
Ecklebe and F.
Woittennek.
“On the controller form for linear hyperbolic MIMO systems with dynamic boundary conditions”.
In: 24th European Control Conference (ECC).
(accepted).
2026.
[5] M.
Fliess, J.
L´evine, P.
Martin, and P.
Rouchon.
“Flatness and defect of non-linear systems: Introductory theory and examples”.
In: Int.
J.
Contr.
61.6 (1995), pp.
1327–1361.
[6] L.
Hu, R.
Vazquez, F.
Di Meglio, and M.
Krstic.
“Boundary exponential stabilization of 1-dimensional inhomogeneous quasilinear hyperbolic systems”.
In: SIAM J.
Contr.
Optim.
57.2 (2019), pp.
963–998.
[7] A.
Isidori.
Nonlinear Control Systems: An Introduction.
Springer London, 1985.
[8] J.
U.
Kim and Y.
Renardy.
“Boundary control of the Timoshenko beam”.
In: SIAM J.
Contr.
Optim.
25.6 (1987), pp.
1417–1429.
[9] M.
Krstic.
Boundary Control of PDEs: A Course on Backstepping Designs.
SIAM Philadelphia, 2008.
[10] M.
Krstic, A.
A.
Siranosian, and A.
Smyshlyaev.
“Backstepping Boundary Controllers and Observers for the Slender Timoshenko Beam: Part I–Design”.
In: 25th American Control Conference.
2006, pp.
2412–2417.
[11] A.
Macchelli and C.
Melchiorri.
“Modeling and Control of the Timoshenko Beam.
The Distributed Port Hamiltonian Approach”.
In: SIAM J.
Contr.
Optim.
43.2 (2004), pp.
743–767.
[12] J.
Redaud, J.
Auriol, and Y.
Le Gorrec.
“In-domain damping assignment of a Timoshenko-beam using state feedback boundary control”.
In: 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
2022, pp.
5405–5410.
[13] J.
Rudolph.
Flatness-Based Control: An Introduction.
Shaker Aachen, 2021.
[14] D.
L.
Russell.
“Canonical forms and spectral determination for a class of hyperbolic distributed parameter control systems”.
In: J.
Math.
Anal.
Appl.
62.1 (1978), pp.
186–225.
[15] D.
L.
Russell.
“Neutral FDE canonical representations of hyperbolic system”.
In: J.
Int.
Equ.
Appl.
3.1 (1991), pp.
129–166.
[16] S.
Schmidt, N.
Gehring, and F.
Woittennek.
“Flatness-based design of state feedback controllers for heterodirectional hyperbolic systems”.
In: IMA J.
Math.
Contr.
Inform.
(2025).
provisionally accepted.
[17] S.
Timoshenko.
Vibration Problems in Engineering.
van Nostrand, 1928.
[18] F.
Woittennek.

“Flatness based feedback design for hyperbolic distributed parameter systems with spatially varying coefficients”.
In: IFAC Proceedings Volumes 46.26 (2013), pp.
37–42.
[19] F.
Woittennek and J.
Rudolph.
“Controller canonical forms and flatness based state feedback for 1D hyperbolic systems”.
In: IFAC Proceedings Volumes 45.2 (2012), pp.
792–797.
