Mohammadi et al., “Convergence and sample complexity of gradient methods for the model-free linear–quadratic regulator

problem,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
67, no.
5, pp.
2435–2450, 2022.
[15] Y.
Watanabe and Y.
Zheng, “Revisiting strong duality, hidden convexity, and gradient dominance in the linear quadratic regulator,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.10964, 2025.
[16] Y.
Tang, Y.
Zheng, and N.
Li, “Analysis of the optimization landscape of linear quadratic gaussian (LQG) control,” in Learning for Dynamics and Control.
PMLR, 2021, pp.
599–610.
[17] Y.
Zheng et al., “Escaping high-order saddles in policy optimization for linear quadratic gaussian (LQG) control,” in 2022 IEEE 61st Conference on Decision and Control (CDC).
IEEE, 2022, pp.
5329–5334.
[18] J.
Duan et al., “On the optimization landscape of dynamic output feedback linear quadratic control,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2023.
[19] J.
Umenberger et al., “Globally convergent policy search for output estimation,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
35.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2022, pp.
22 778–22 790.
[20] Y.
Sun and M.
Fazel, “Learning optimal controllers by policy gradient: Global optimality via convex parameterization,” in Proceedings of the 60th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2021, pp.
4576–4581.
[21] X.
Guo and B.
Hu, “Global convergence of direct policy search for state-feedback H∞ robust control: A revisit of nonsmooth synthesis with Goldstein subdifferential,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol.
35.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2022, pp.
32 801–32 815.
[22] B.
Hu and Y.
Zheng, “Connectivity of the feasible and sublevel sets of dynamic output feedback control with robustness constraints,” IEEE Control Systems Letters, vol.
7, pp.
442–447, 2022.
[23] Y.
Zheng, C.-F.
Pai, and Y.
Tang, “Benign nonconvex landscapes in optimal and robust control, Part II: Extended convex lifting,” ” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04001, 2024.
[24] K.
Zhang, B.
Hu, and T.
Ba¸sar, “Policy optimization for H2 linear control with H∞ robustness guarantee: Implicit regularization and global convergence,” SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, vol.
59, no.
6, pp.
4081–4109, 2021.
[25] D.
Mustafa, “Relations between maximum-entropy/H∞ control and combined H∞/LQG control,” Systems & Control Letters, vol.
12, no.
3, pp.
193–203, 1989.
[26] K.
Glover and D.
