# E. Performance of the VEMPC Protocol

The proposed protocol admits two complementary levels of parallelism: plaintext-level parallelism across trajectory samples (from sampling-based algorithm) and ciphertextlevel parallelism enabled by Single-Instruction-Multiple-Data (SIMD) packing (from CKKS scheme).

1) Plaintext-level: The trajectory samples $U ^ { ( i ) }$ are independent and can be evaluated concurrently. If $n _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r s } } \in \mathbb { N }$ number of processing units are available, the samples can be partitioned into batches so that each worker processes approximately $K _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r } } = K / n _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r s } }$ samples.   
2) Ciphertext-level: The SIMD packing allows multiple plaintext values to be embedded into the slots of a single ciphertext, and processed simultaneously.

In the proposed protocol, a worker may process one ciphertext containing $K _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r } }$ trajectory samples packed as

$$[ U ^ {(1)}; \dots ; U ^ {(K _ {\text { worker }})} ], \quad U ^ {(i)} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {N m}, i = 1, \dots , K _ {\text { worker }},$$

where each $U ^ { ( i ) }$ denotes the i-th control trajectory sample. The corresponding residual vectors can also be packed similarly, allowing each worker to process them simultaneously with a similar computation time needed for a single sample.

The VEMPC protocol exploits these two levels of parallelism simultaneously. SIMD-packing enables multiple samples in a single ciphertext, while ciphertext batches can be processed concurrently by multiple workers. If $n _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r s } }$ workers process ciphertexts, each containing $K _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r } }$ samples, the total number of trajectory samples evaluated at each MPC step is $K = n _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r s } } K _ { \mathrm { w o r k e r } } .$ .
