[11] M.
Li, X.
Zhang, Z.
Guo, H.
Pan, M.
Ma, and W.
Zhao, “Impedance adaptive dual-mode control of grid-connected inverters with large fluctuation of SCR and its stability analysis based on D-partition method,” IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol.
36, no.
12, pp.
14 420– 14 435, Dec.
2021.
[12] L.
A.
M.
Lima and E.
H.
Watanabe, “Hybrid control scheme for VSC presenting both grid-forming and grid-following capabilities,” IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery, vol.
37, no.
6, pp.
4570–4581, 2022.
[13] D.
Moutevelis, J.
Roldan-Perez, N.
Jankovic, and M.
Prodanovic, “Recursive secondary controller for voltage profile improvement based on primary virtual admittance control,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol.
14, no.
6, pp.
4296–4311, Nov.
2023.
[14] X.
Meng, J.
Liu, and Z.
Liu, “A generalized droop control for gridsupporting inverter based on comparison between traditional droop control and virtual synchronous generator control,” IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol.
34, no.
6, pp.
5416–5438, Jun.
2019.
[15] A.
Tarraso, N.
B.
Lai, C.
Verdugo, J.
I.
Candela, and P.
Rodriguez, ´ “Design of controller for virtual synchronous power plant,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol.
57, no.
4, pp.
4033–4041, Jul.
2021.
[16] X.
Zhang, X.
Zhan, M.
Wu, F.
Han, X.
Fu, and M.
Li, “Review on grid-following/grid-forming hybrid mode control for grid-connected converter in high penetration rate of renewable energy generation,” Automation of Electric Power Systems, vol.
48, no.
21, pp.
1–15, 2024.
[17] H.
Ding, R.
Kar, Z.
Miao, and L.
Fan, “A novel design for switchable grid-following and grid-forming control,” IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, vol.
16, no.
2, pp.
1301–1314, Apr.
2025.
[18] M.
Li, “Research on impedance adaptive dual-mode control of the gridconnected inverter for high-penetration new energy generation,” Ph.D.
dissertation, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei, China, 2021.
[19] S.
Song, K.
Sun, K.-J.
Li, Y.
Dong, Y.
Wen, Z.
Zhang, and M.
Li, “An improved mixture ratio control strategy for zero-disturbance switching of grid-forming and grid-following inverters,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, vol.
61, no.
6, pp.
8373–8382, Nov.
2025.
[20] C.
Hwang, L.-F.
Hwang, and J.-H.
Hwang, “Robust D-partition,” Journal of the Chinese Institute of Engineers, vol.
33, no.
6, pp.
811–821, 2010.
[21] J.
Liu, Y.
Xue, and D.
