# B.1 Proof of Corollary 3

Proof: The proof is similar to that of Corollary 2. We prove both directions of the equivalence.

⇒. Suppose $K ~ \in ~ \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ is a global minimizer of (10). Then, its policy gradient given by (18) must vanish, i.e., $\nabla J _ { \operatorname* { m i x } } \big ( K \big ) ^ { \cdot } = 2 \big ( R \check { K } + B ^ { \intercal } \tilde { P _ { K } } \big ) \Lambda _ { K } \stackrel { \cdot } { = } 0$ , where $P _ { K } \succeq 0$ is the unique stabilizing solution to the Riccati equation (11b)

$$A _ {K} ^ {\mathsf {T}} P _ {K} + P _ {K} A _ {K} + \beta^ {- 2} P _ {K} W P _ {K} + Q + K ^ {\mathsf {T}} R K = 0,$$

and $\Lambda _ { K }$ is the unique solution to the Lyapunov equation (18b) associated with K. Since $W \succ 0$ , the Lyapunov equation implies $\Lambda _ { K } \succ 0$ , and thus we have $K \doteq \dot { - } R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \top } \dot { P } _ { K }$ . Now letting $P : = P _ { K }$ , we immediately obtain (22a). Substituting this into the Riccati equation (11b) gives

$$
\begin{array}{l} (A - B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {\mathsf {T}} P) ^ {\mathsf {T}} P + P (A - B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {\mathsf {T}} P) \\ + \beta^ {- 2} P W P + Q + P B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {\mathsf {T}} P = 0, \\ \end{array}
$$

which is identical to (22b). Finally, since P is the stabilizing solution to (11b), the matrix $A _ { K } + \beta ^ { - 2 } W P = A + ( \beta ^ { - 2 } W -$ $B R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \top } ) \dot { P }$ is Hurwitz.

. Now suppose $K = - R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \mathsf { T } } P .$ , where $P \succeq 0$ is the unique stabilizing solution to the Riccati equation (22b) such that $A + ( \beta ^ { - 2 } W - B R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \top } ) P$ is Hurwitz. First, substituting $K = - R ^ { - 1 } B ^ { \boldsymbol { \mathsf { T } } } P$ into the following Riccati equation (which matches the form of (11b))

$$A _ {K} ^ {\mathsf {T}} P + P A _ {K} + \beta^ {- 2} P W P + Q + K ^ {\mathsf {T}} R K = 0,$$

we recover exactly (22b). This confirms that P satisfies the Riccati equation (11b) associated with K. Next, we verify that P is the stabilizing solution to (11b). Observe that

$$A _ {K} + \beta^ {- 2} W P = A + (\beta^ {- 2} W - B R ^ {- 1} B ^ {\mathsf {T}}) P.$$

By assumption, this matrix is Hurwitz, which confirms that P is a stabilizing solution to (11b). Therefore, it follows from Lemma 1 that $\breve { K } \in \mathcal { K } _ { \beta }$ . Finally, we recognize from the gradient formula (18) that $\nabla J _ { \mathrm { m i x } } ( K ) = 2 ( R K + B ^ { \mathsf { T } } P ) \Lambda _ { K } = 0 ,$ , so K is a stationary point. We then conclude by Theorem 3 that K is globally optimal for (10). ✷
