[15] F.
Wu and B.
Lu, “Anti-windup control design for exponentially unstable LTI systems with actuator saturation,” Syst.
Control Lett., vol.
52, no.3-4, pp.
305-322, 2004.
[16] G.
Grimm, J.
Hatfield, I.
Postlethwaite, A.
R.
Teel et.
al,“Antiwindup for stable linear systems with input saturation: An LMI-based synthesis,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
48, no.
9, pp.
1509-1525, September 2003.
[17] T.
Hu, A.
R.
Teel and L.
Zaccarian, “Anti-windup synthesis for linear control systems with input saturation: Achieving regional, nonlinear performance” Automatica, vol.
44, pp.
512-519, 2008.
[18] Y.
Li and Z.
Lin, “Saturation-based switching anti-windup design for linear systems with nested input saturation,” Automatica, vol.
50, no.
11, pp.
2888-2896, 2014.
[19] N.
Wang, H.
Pei and J.
Wang, “Anti-windup design for rational systems by linear-fractional representation,” IET Control Theory appl., vol.
8, no.5, pp.
355-366, 2014.
[20] H.
Hindi and S.
Boyd, “Analysis of linear systems with saturation using convex optimization,” in Proceedings of the 37th Conference on Decision and Control.
Tampa, pp.
903-908.
[21] V.
Kapila, A.
G.
Sparks and H.
Pan, “Control of systems with actuator nonlinearities: an LMI approach,” in Proceedings of the American Control Conference, San Diego, pp.
3201-3205.
[22] T.
Kiyama and T.
Iwasaki, “On the use of multi-loop circle criterion for saturating control synthesis,” System & Control Letters, vol.
41, pp.
105-114, 2000.
[23] R.
Suarez, J.
Alvarez-Ramirez and J.
Solis-Daun, “Linear systems with bounded inputs:Global stabilization with eigenvalue placement,” Int.
J.
Robust Nonlinear Control, vol.
7, pp.
835-845, 1997.
[24] H.
J.
Sussmann, E.
D.
Sontag and Y.
Yang, “A general result on the stabilization of linear systems using bounded controls,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
39, no.
12, pp.
2411-2425, Dec.
1994.
[25] F.
Wu, Z.
Lin and Q.
Zheng, “Output feedback stabilization of linear systems with actuator saturation,” IEEE Trans.
Autom.
Control, vol.
52, no.
1, pp.
122-128, Jan.
2007.
[26] X.
Ban and F.
Wu, “Gain scheduling output feedback control of linear plants with actuator saturation,” Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol.
352, pp.
4163-4187, 2015.
[27] X.
Ban and F.
Wu, “Output feedback control of linear fractional transformation systems subject to actuator saturation,” Int.
J.
Systems Sci., vol.
47, no.
15, pp.
3646-3655, 2016.
[28] M.
