Laumond, “From human to humanoid locomotion—an inverse optimal control approach”, Auton.
robots, vol.
28, pp.
369–383, 2010.
[19] M.
Johnson, N.
Aghasadeghi, and T.
Bretl, “Inverse optimal control for deterministic continuous-time nonlinear systems”, In 52nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, pp.
2906–2913, 2013.
[20] A.
Y.
Ng, and S.
Russell, “Algorithms for inverse reinforcement learning”, In International Conference on Machine Learning, vol.
1, no.
2, 2000.
[21] P.
Abbeel, and A.
Y.
Ng, “Apprenticeship learning via inverse reinforcement learning”, In Proceedings of the twenty-first international conference on Machine learning, vol.
1, 2004.
[22] K.
Westermann, J.
F.-S.
Lin, and D Kulic, “Inverse optimal control ´ with time-varying objectives: application to human jumping movement analysis”, Sci.
reports, vol.
10, pp.
11174, 2020.
[23] R.
Pinsler, M.
Maag, O.
Arentz, and G.
Neuman, “Inverse reinforcement learning of bird flocking behavior,” In ICRA swarms workshop, 2018.
[24] W.
Jin, D.
Kulic, J.F.-S.
Lin, S.
Mou, and S.
Hirche, “Inverse optimal ´ control for multiphase cost functions”, IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol.
35, no.
6, pp.1387-1398, 2019.
[25] Y.-H.
Su, P.
Bhowmick, and A.
Lanzon, “A robust adaptive formation control methodology for networked multi-uav systems with applications to cooperative payload transportation”, Control.
Eng.
Pract., vol.
138, pp.
105608, 2023.
[26] X.-M.
Nguyen, and S.
K.
Hong, “Robust adaptive formation control of quadcopters based on a leader–follower approach”, International Journal of Advanced Robotic Systems, vol.
16, no.
4, pp.
1729881419862733, 2019.
