[27] P.
Shu, F.
Li, J.
Zhao, and M.
Oya, “Robust adaptive control for a novel fully-actuated octocopter UAV with wind disturbance”, Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
103, no.
1, pp.6, 2021.
[28] J.
Wang, B.
Zhu, and Z.
Zheng, “Robust adaptive control for a quadrotor UAV with uncertain aerodynamic parameters”, IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol.
59, no.
6, pp.8313-8326, 2023   
[29] Y.
Shen, and C.
Wei, “Multi-uav flocking control with individual properties inspired by bird behavior”, Aerosp.
Sci.
Technol., vol.
130, pp.
107882, 2022.
[30] K.
Wu, J.
Hu, B.
Lennox, and F.
Arvin, “SDP-based robust formationcontainment coordination of swarm robotic systems with input saturation”, Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, vol.
102, no.
1, pp.
12, 2021   
[31] Y.
Rizk, M.
Awad, and E.
W.
Tunstel, “Decision making in multiagent systems: A survey”, IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems, vol.
10, no.
3, pp.
514-529, 2018.
[32] S.
Na, H.
Niu, B.
Lennox, and F.
Arvin, “Bio-inspired collision avoidance in swarm systems via deep reinforcement learning”, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol.
71, no.
3, pp.
2511-2526, 2023.
[33] W.
Li, Y.
Niu, and Z.
Cao, “Event-triggered sliding mode control for multi-agent systems subject to channel fading”, International Journal of Systems Science, vol.
53, no.
6, pp.
1233-1244, 2022.
[34] W.
Li, Y.
Niu, Z.
Ca and X.
Lv, “Sliding mode control for multi-agent systems under stochastic communication protocol”, International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control, vol.
32, no.
13, pp.7522-7535, 2022.
[35] L.
Dong, S.
Chai, B.
Zhang, and S.
K.
Nguang, “Sliding mode control for multi-agent systems under a time-varying topology”, International Journal of Systems Science, vol.
47, no.
9, pp.
2193-2200, 2016.
[36] J.
Wang and M.
Xin, “Integrated optimal formation control of multiple unmanned aerial vehicles”, IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol.
21, no.
5, pp.
1731-1744, 2012   
[37] E.
Olcay, K.
Gabrich, K., and B.
Lohmann, “Optimal control of a swarming multi-agent system through guidance of a leader-agent”, IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
52, no.
20, 1-6, 2019   
[38] A.
Islam, G.
Herrmann, and J.
Carrasco, “On the uniqueness of solution to the inverse optimal control problem for the hard-constrained minimum principle based method”, IEEE Control.
Syst.
Lett., 2025.
[39] T.
L.
Molloy, J.
Inga, M.
Flad, J.
J.

Ford, T.
Perez, and S.
Hohmann, “Inverse open-loop noncooperative differential games and inverse optimal control”, IEEE Transactions on Autom.
Control., vol.
65, pp.
897–904, 2019.
[40] D.
S.
Naidu, “Optimal control systems”, CRC press, 2018.
[41] M.
Athans, and P.
L.
Falb, “Optimal control: an introduction to the theory and its applications”, Courier Corporation, 1966.
[42] J.
Gallier, “Geometric methods and applications: for computer science and engineering”, Springer Science & Business Media, vol.
38, 2011.
