We will now present simulation results for the inverse optimal control problem for the follower pigeons. We consider each follower pigeon and present the recovered cost function using single flight trajectory and using multiple flight trajectory data as described in earlier sections. We decided to present the simulation results for pigeons M, B and C, because the results of all the pigeons are quite similar (The simulation results for the other pigeons are available and can be provided if requested). We denote $r _ { w }$ as the condition number of $N _ { h } ^ { T } W \bar { N _ { h } }$ . We consider a long segment of the GPS data available. The condition number of $N _ { h } ^ { T } W N _ { h }$ for each of the cases is large. It does not become smaller for multiple trajectories case, because it appears that the flight data are similar for each flight in multiple flight trajectories for the follower pigeons. This does not lead to new information and the matrix $N _ { h } ^ { T } W N _ { h }$ is ill-conditioned. Nonetheless, the results presented here can be improved by using sufficiently different trajectories for each flight in future experiments which can help in leading to a well-conditioned matrix $N _ { h } ^ { T } W N _ { h }$ . In such a case, the true weights will be found.

Even though a unique solution has not been obtained in this analysis, we observe certain trends in the IOC solution. It appears that the weights on the trajectory tracking is negligible, whereas there is significant weightage on the control inputs. A more weightage on the control inputs means that the pigeons in the swarm might wish to save energy. There is also some weightage on the velocity tracking, which indicates that the optimal control problem for swarm behaviour might focus more on velocity tracking rather than trajectory tracking, with a significant weightage on the control inputs.

This work however lays the foundation for formulating the swarm behaviour of a flock of birds as an optimal trajectory tracking control problem. The application of minimum principle based IOC methods for swarm behaviour can help learn the philosopy behind how birds in a swarm generate their trajectories.
