IEEE Transactions On aerospace and electronic systems, 37(4):1176–1192, 2001.

[13] Chi-Huang Lu, Pen-Yu Liao, Yuan-Hai Charng, Chi-Ming Liu, and Jheng-Yu Guo.
Multivariable self-tuning PID controller based on wavelet fuzzy neural networks.
In 2014 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, volume 2, pages 755–759.
IEEE, 2014.
[14] Puwei Lu, Wenkai Huang, and Junlong Xiao.
Speed tracking of brushless DC motor based on deep reinforcement learning and PID.
In 2021 7th International Conference on Condition Monitoring of Machinery in Non-Stationary Operations (CMMNO), pages 130–134.
IEEE, 2021.
[15] Abhas Kanungo, Chandan Choubey, Varun Gupta, Pankaj Kumar, and Neeraj Kumar.
Design of an intelligent wavelet-based fuzzy adaptive PID control for brushless motor.
Multimedia Tools and Applications, 82(21):33203–33223, 2023.
[16] Brijendra Sangar, Madhusudan Singh, and Mini Sreejeth.
An improved ANFIS model predictive current control approach for minimizing torque and current ripples in PMSM-driven electric vehicle.
Electrical Engineering, pages 1–11, 2024.
[17] Karol Wr´obel, Piotr Serkies, and Krzysztof Szabat.
Model predictive base direct speed control of induction motor drive—continuous and finite set approaches.
Energies, 13(5):1193, 2020.
[18] F.
Colodro and A.
Torralba.
Linearity enhancement of VCO-based quantizers for SD modulators by means of a tracking loop.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, 61(6):383–387, 2014.
[19] Mohammad Ghassem Farajzadeh Devin, Seyed Kamal Hosseini Sani, and Hamed Bizhani.
Dynamic performance improvement of induction motors used in rolling mill application: A two-loop model predictive control strategy.
ISA transactions, 140:134–143, 2023.
[20] S¨oren Hanke, Oliver Wallscheid, and Joachim B¨ocker.
Comparison of artificial neural network and least squares prediction models for finite-control-set model predictive control of a permanent magnet synchronous motor.
In The 10th International Conference on Power Electronics, Machines and Drives, volume 2, pages 266–271.
IET, 2021.
[21] Mohammad Abu-Ali, Felix Berkel, Maximilian Manderla, Sven Reimann, Ralph Kennel, and Mohamed Abdelrahem.
Deep learning-based long-horizon MPC: robust, high performing, and computationally efficient control for PMSM drives.
IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, 37(10):12486–12501, 2022.
[22] MohammadHadi Karimi, Mehdi Alemi Rostami, and Hasan Zamani.

Continuous control set model predictive control for the optimal current control of permanent magnet synchronous motors.
Control Engineering Practice, 138:105590, 2023.

[23] F Colodro and A Torralba. Frequency-to-digital conversion based on sampled phase-locked loop with third-order noise shaping. Electronics letters, 47(19):1069–1070, 2011.
