# IX. CONCLUSION

This paper introduces a novel approach towards the construction of a finite-rank representation of the control Liouville operator. New results on the construction of singular values and functions of the finite rank operator using singular values and vectors of a matrix representation are also obtained. Once the singular values and functions are at hand, the drift dynamics and the control effectiveness can be approximated, which facilitates the prediction of the states of the dynamical system in response to an open-loop control signal. Once a predictive model is generated, its predictions can be compared with the trajectory of the true system using different guesses of the parameters as initial conditions of the augmented states. A weakness of the current method is that the parameters identified can only choose between the nodes of the mesh that is defined by the user. If the mesh does not include the exact parameters, it is impossible to identify the exact parameters.

A numerical experiment using the Duffing oscillator is presented to demonstrate the performance of the developed technique, while future work will focus on analyzing the effects of integration error and measurement noise on the DCLDMDPID method, incorporating partial system knowledge to enhance identification, investigating data-driven sensitivity analysis to enable gradient-based parameter identification and investigating other gradient-free global optimization techniques in place of the current grid-based approach.
