Mezic, “Spectral properties of dynamical systems, model reduction ´ and decompositions,” Nonlinear Dyn., vol.
41, no.
1–3, pp.
309–325, Aug.
2005.
[19] G.
Hagen and U.
Vaidya, “An approach for nonlinear model extraction from time-series data,” in Proc.
Amer.
Control Conf., 2008, pp.
3875– 3880.
[20] S.
A.
Billings, Nonlinear system identification: NARMAX methods in the time, frequency, and spatio-temporal domains.
John Wiley & Sons, 2013.
[21] R.
W.
Brockett, “Volterra series and geometric control theory,” IFAC Proc.
Vol., vol.
8, no.
1, Part 1, pp.
245–254, 1975.
[22] O.
S.
Patil, D.
M.
Le, M.
L.
Greene, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Lyapunovderived control and adaptive update laws for inner and outer layer weights of a deep neural network,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
6, pp.
1855–1860, 2022.
[23] D.
M.
Le, O.
S.
Patil, C.
F.
Nino, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Accelerated gradient approach for deep neural network-based adaptive control of unknown nonlinear systems,” IEEE Trans.
Neural Netw.
Learn.
Syst., pp.
1–15, 2024.
[24] R.
G.
Hart, O.
Sudhir Patil, Z.
I.
Bell, and W.
E.
Dixon, “Concurrent learning for system identification and control using Lyapunov-based deep neural networks,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
9, pp.
2957–2962, 2025.
[25] S.
Istiqphara, O.
Wahyunggoro, and A.
Imam Cahyadi, “Recursive sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics for online equation discovery,” IEEE Access, vol.
12, pp.
169 592–169 605, 2024.
[26] J.
A.
Meda-Campana, R.
D.
Vel ˜ azquez-S ´ anchez, J.
C.
Garc ´ ´ıa-Hernandez, S.
G.
Torres-Cedillo, and R.
Tapia-Herrera, “Online´ sparse identification of nonlinear state-space equations via RLS,” Int.
J.
Control Autom.
Syst., vol.
23, pp.
2232 – 2246, 2025.
[27] B.
P.
Russo, M.
P.
Laiu, and R.
Archibald, “Streaming compression of scientific data via weak-SINDy,” SIAM J.
Sci.
Comput., vol.
47, no.
1, pp.
C207–C234, 2025.
[28] U.
Fasel, J.
N.
Kutz, B.
W.
Brunton, and S.
L.
Brunton, “Ensemble-SINDy: Robust sparse model discovery in the low-data, high-noise
