Real building implementation of a deep reinforcement learning controller to enhance energy efficiency and indoor temperature control.
Applied Energy, 368, 123447.
United Nations Environment Programme (2024).
Global status report buildings and constructions 2022.
Wang, X., Wang, P., Huang, R., Zhu, X., Arroyo, J., and Li, N.
(2025).
Safe deep reinforcement learning for building energy management.
Applied Energy, 377, 124328.
Wang, Z.
and Hong, T.
(2020).
Reinforcement learning for building controls: The opportunities and challenges.
Applied Energy, 269, 115036.
Wei, T., Wang, Y., and Zhu, Q.
(2017).
Deep reinforcement learning for building HVAC control.
In 54th

ACM/EDAC/IEEE Design Automation Conference, 1– 6.   
Yang, S., Gao, H.O., and You, F. (2024). Demand flexibility and cost-saving potentials via smart building energy management: Opportunities in residential space heating across the US. Advances in Applied Energy, 14.   
Yu, L., Qin, S., Zhang, M., Shen, C., Jiang, T., and Guan, X. (2021). A review of deep reinforcement learning for smart building energy management. IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 8, 12046–12063.   
Zhang, K., Prakash, A., Paul, L., Blum, D., Alstone, P., Zoellick, J., Brown, R., and Pritoni, M. (2022). Model predictive control for demand flexibility: Real-world operation of a commercial building with photovoltaic and battery systems. Advances in Applied Energy, 7, 100099.   
Zhao, W., He, T., Chen, R., Wei, T., and Liu, C. (2023). State-wise safe reinforcement learning: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.03122.   
Zhao, W., He, T., and Liu, C. (2021). Model-free safe control for zero-violation reinforcement learning. In 5th Annual Conference on Robot Learning.
