# REFERENCES

[1] A.
D.
Ames, X.
Xu, J.
W.
Grizzle, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier function based quadratic programs for safety critical systems,” IEEE Trans.
Automat.
Control, vol.
62, no.
8, pp.
3861–3876, 2017.
[2] A.
D.
Ames, S.
Coogan, M.
Egerstedt, G.
Notomista, K.
Sreenath, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier functions: theory and applications,” in Eur.
Control Conf., 2019, pp.
3420–3431.
[3] J.
B.
Rawlings, D.
Q.
Mayne, and M.
M.
Diehl, Model Predictive Control: Theory, Computation, and Design.
Nob Hill Publ., 2017.
[4] S.
Bansal, M.
Chen, S.
Herbert, and C.
J.
Tomlin, “Hamilton-Jacobi Reachability: A Brief Overview and Recent Advances,” in IEEE Conf.
Decis.
Control, Dec.
2017, pp.
2242–2253.
[5] E.
Garone, S.
D.
Cairano, and I.
Kolmanovsky, “Reference and command governors for systems with constraints: a survey on theory and applications,” Automatica, vol.
75, pp.
306–328, 2017.
[6] S.
S.
Mousavi, X.
Tan, and A.
D.
Ames, “From vertices to convex hulls: Certifying set-wise compatibility for cbf constraints,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
9, pp.
3011–3016, 2025.
[7] P.
Mestres, S.
S.
Mousavi, P.
Ong, L.
Yang, E.
Das, J.
W.
Burdick, and A.
D.
Ames, “Explicit control barrier function-based safety filters and their resource-aware computation,” arXiv:2512.10118, 2025.
[8] A.
D.
Ames, J.
W.
Grizzle, and P.
Tabuada, “Control barrier functions based quadratic programming with application to adaptive cruise control,” in IEEE Conf.
Decis.
Control, 2014, pp.
6271–6278.
[9] S.
Hsu, X.
Xu, and A.
D.
Ames, “Control barrier function based quadratic programs with applications to bipedal robot walking,” in Amer.
Control Conf., July 2015.
[10] O.
So, Z.
Serlin, M.
Mann, J.
Gonzales, K.
Rutledge, N.
Roy, and C.
Fan, “How to train your neural control barrier function: Learning safety filters for complex input-constrained systems,” in IEEE Int.
Conf.
Robot.
Autom., 2024, pp.
11 532–11 539.
[11] E.
Lavretsky and K.
A.
Wise, Robust and Adaptive Control with Aerospace Applications.
Springer, 2024.
[12] X.
Xu, P.
Tabuada, J.
W.
Grizzle, and A.
D.
Ames, “Robustness of control barrier functions for safety critical control,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol.
48, no.
27, pp.
54–61, 2015.
[13] S.
Kolathaya and A.
D.
Ames, “Input-to-state safety with control barrier functions,” IEEE Control Syst.
Lett., vol.
3, no.
1, pp.
108– 113, 2019.
[14] R.
K.
Cosner, A.
W.
Singletary, A.
J.
Taylor, T.
G.
Molnar, K.
L.
´ Bouman, and A.
D.
