learning: Methods, theory and applications.
Guelpa, E.
and Verda, V.
(2021).
Demand response and other demand-side management techniques for district heating: A review.
Energy, 219, 119440.
Gupta, A., Badr, Y., Negahban, A., and Qiu, R.G.
(2021).
Energy-efficient heating control for smart buildings with deep reinforcement learning.
Journal of Building Engineering, 34, 101739.
Huo, X., Liu, B., Dong, J., Lian, J., and Liu, M.
(2024).
Optimal management of grid-interactive efficient buildings via safe reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.08132.
Inamdar, R., Sundarr, S.K., Khandelwal, D., Sahu, V.D., and Katal, N.
(2024).
A comprehensive review on safe reinforcement learning for autonomous vehicle control in dynamic environments.
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy, 10.
Karniadakis, G.
and Kevrekidis, I.G.and Lu, L.
(2021).
Physics-informed machine learning.
Nature Reviews Physics, 3, 422–440.
Kazmi, H., Mehmood, F., Lodeweyckx, S., and Driesen, J.
(2018).
Gigawatt-hour scale savings on a budget of zero: Deep reinforcement learning based optimal control of hot water systems.
Energy, 144, 159–168.
Liu, Z., Chen, Y., Yang, X., and Yan, J.
(2023).
Power to heat: Opportunity of flexibility services provided by building energy systems.
Advances in Applied Energy, 11, 100149.
Nejat, P., Jomehzadeh, F., Taheri, M.M., Gohari, M., and Abd.
Majid, M.Z.
(2015).
A global review of energy consumption, co2 emissions and policy in the residential sector.
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 43, 843–862.
Ostergaard, J., Ziras, C., Bindner, H.W., Kazempour, J., Marinelli, M., Markussen, P., Rosted, S.H., and Christensen, J.S.
(2021).
Energy security through demandside flexibility: The case of denmark.
IEEE Power and Energy Magazine, 19(2), 46–55.
Paesschesoone, S., Kayedpour, N., Manna, C., and Crevecoeur, G.
(2024).
Reinforcement learning for an enhanced energy flexibility controller incorporating predictive safety filter and adaptive policy updates.
Applied Energy, 368, 123507.
Qi, Q., Yang, X., and Xia, G.
(2024).
Safe reinforcement learning filter for multicopter collision-free tracking under disturbances.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06852.
Silvestri, A., Coraci, D., Brandi, S., Capozzoli, A., Borkowski, E., K¨ohler, J., Wu, D., Zeilinger, M.N., and Schlueter, A.
(2024).
