Note that $g _ { 2 } ( \bar { t } _ { 0 } ) > 0$ . It follows from conditions (ii)-(iii) that $g _ { 2 } ( t _ { o } ) \leq 0$ is the minimum value of $g _ { 2 } ( t )$ , which implies that $V ^ { \frac { 1 - \alpha } { \alpha + 1 } } ( t _ { o } ) ~ \leq ~ 0$ . Together with $V ( t ) \geq 0 , \forall t \geq 0$ , one can infer that $V ( t _ { o } ) = 0$ . The finite-time convergence of $V ( t )$ is established for this scenario.

Scenario 2: $V ( t _ { 0 } ) \leq 1$ .

The global finite-convergence of $V ( t )$ for this scenario follows directly from the second step of the previous scenario.

Combining the results in these two scenarios, one can conclude that $\operatorname* { l i m } _ { t \to t _ { o } } \varsigma ( t ) = 0 , \forall \varsigma ( t _ { 0 } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { q }$ . Thus, the origin t→to $\varsigma ( t ) = 0$ is globally finite-time convergent.

Part II: To show the Lyapunov stability.

Combining (47) and (52), one has

$$\dot {V} (t) \leq c _ {5} V (t), \forall t \geq t _ {0}. \tag {72}$$

From this inequality, one has for all $t \in [ t _ { 0 } , t _ { o } )$ ,

$$V (t) \leq e ^ {c _ {5} (t _ {o} - t _ {0})} V (t _ {0}). \tag {73}$$

This implies that $V ( t )$ remains bounded over $[ t _ { 0 } , t _ { o } )$ . Together with the result derived in Part I that $V ( t _ { o } ) = 0$ , one can infer that for each open neighborhood ${ \mathcal { W } } _ { \varsigma }$ of the origin, there is an open neighborhood $\mathcal { W } _ { 0 } \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ of the origin such that for any $\varsigma ( t _ { 0 } ) \in \mathcal { W } _ { 0 } \ \backslash \ \{ 0 \} , \varsigma ( t ) \in \mathcal { W } _ { \varsigma }$ holds, for all $t \in [ 0 , t _ { o } )$ . The Lyapunov stability of $\varsigma ( t ) = 0$ is thus obtained in the sense of Definition 1 (1) (b).

According to the results derived in Part I and Part II, along with Definition 1 (1), one can conclude that the origin $\varsigma ( t ) = 0$ is globally finite-time stable. Note that $t _ { o }$ is independent of the initial states. Therefore, the origin $\varsigma ( t ) = 0$ is globally fixedtime stable.

Recall that $\mathsf { \Lambda } _ { \mathsf { S } } ( t ) = ( \mathcal { H } \otimes I _ { q } ) \tilde { \eta } ( t )$ and $( \mathcal { H } \otimes I _ { q } )$ is invertible from Lemma 1 (i). Consequently, we conclude that $\tilde { \eta } _ { i } ( t ) = 0$ , for all $t \geq t _ { o }$ . This completes the proof.
