# VII. CONCLUSION

This paper presents an online adaptive control framework with sparse identification that integrates ℓ1-regularization with ICL and trajectory tracking for nonlinear control-affine systems. The inclusion of ℓ1-regularization penalizes nonzero terms, reducing the co-occurrence of correlated basis functions and thereby promoting sparsity. The SP-ICL update law identifies relevant basis functions from an overcomplete dictionary of candidate basis functions. The stability of the resulting framework is established via Lyapunov-based analysis for non-smooth systems, where we prove ultimate boundedness of the trajectories of the closed-loop system while promoting sparsity.

Simulation results show that sparsity improves parameter convergence by penalizing basis functions that are not present in the dynamical system, while still preserving stability and tracking accuracy. To mitigate the observed chattering, future research could explore replacing the discontinuous

TABLE II SPARSE TERM RECOVERY PERFORMANCE. CONFUSION MATRIX COUNTS AND DERIVED PRECISION(PRES.), RECALL(REC.) AND F-1 METRICS FOR NONZERO TERM DETECTION.

<table><tr><td rowspan="2"> $\lambda$ </td><td colspan="2">Counts</td><td colspan="3">Metrics</td></tr><tr><td>Positive</td><td>Negative</td><td>Prec</td><td>Rec</td><td>F1</td></tr><tr><td>0</td><td>12</td><td>8</td><td>0.42</td><td>1.00</td><td>0.59</td></tr><tr><td> $10^{-5}$ </td><td>12</td><td>8</td><td>0.42</td><td>1.00</td><td>0.59</td></tr><tr><td> $10^{-4}$ </td><td>12</td><td>8</td><td>0.42</td><td>1.00</td><td>0.59</td></tr><tr><td> $10^{-3}$ </td><td>12</td><td>8</td><td>0.42</td><td>1.00</td><td>0.59</td></tr><tr><td> $5 \times 10^{-3}$ </td><td>8</td><td>12</td><td>0.62</td><td>1.00</td><td>0.77</td></tr><tr><td> $10^{-2}$ </td><td>4</td><td>16</td><td>1.00</td><td>0.80</td><td>0.89</td></tr><tr><td> $5 \times 10^{-2}$ </td><td>1</td><td>19</td><td>0.00</td><td>0.00</td><td>0.00</td></tr><tr><td> $10^{-1}$ </td><td>0</td><td>20</td><td>-</td><td>0.00</td><td>0.00</td></tr></table>

signum term in the SP-ICL update law with continuous approximations, such as saturation or smooth hyperbolic tangent functions. Furthermore, we would explore adaptive $\ell _ { 1 }$ regularization penalties to dynamically balance sparsity promotion and estimation accuracy, which could improve convergence for a broader class of nonlinear systems.
