Feng, “Finite-time cooperative output regulation of heterogeneous nonlinear multi-agent systems under switching DoS attacks,” Automatica, vol.
173, p.
112062, 2025.
[30] Y.
Liu, Z.
Zuo, J.
Song, and W.
Li, “Fixed-time consensus control of general linear multi-agent systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
69, no.
8, pp.
5516–5523, 2024.
[31] Z.
Zuo, “Nonsingular fixed-time consensus tracking for second-order multi-agent networks,” Automatica, vol.
54, pp.
305–309, 2015.
[32] H.
Du, G.
Wen, D.
Wu, Y.
Cheng, and J.
Lü, “Distributed fixed-time consensus for nonlinear heterogeneous multi-agent systems,” Automatica, vol.
113, p.
108797, 2020.
[33] Q.
Liang, D.
Huang, L.
Ma, J.
Hu, Y.
Wu, and S.
Wu, “Distributed fixed-time output regulation for a class of nonlinear multi-agent systems with unity relative degree,” IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, vol.
11, no.
4, pp.
1962–1974, 2024.
[34] H.
Yang and D.
Ye, “Observer-based fixed-time secure tracking consensus for networked high-order multi-agent systems against dos attacks,” IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, vol.
52, no.
4, pp.
2018–2031, 2020.
[35] B.
Xu, Y.-X.
Li, and Z.
Hou, “Fixed-time fuzzy resilient consensus tracking of nonlinear MASs under DoS attacks and actuator faults,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol.
22, pp.
2923–2934, 2024.
[36] W.
Cao, L.
Liu, Z.
Ye, D.
Zhang, and G.
Feng, “Resilient global practical fixed-time cooperative output regulation of uncertain nonlinear multi-agent systems subject to denial-of-service attacks,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol.
71, no.
2, pp.
1247–1254, 2026.
[37] W.
Cao, L.
Liu, D.
Zhang, and G.
Feng, “Resilient fixed-time cooperative output regulation of heterogeneous linear multi-agent systems under denial-of-service attacks over detail-balanced directed graphs,” Automatica, vol.
185, p.
112836, 2026.
[38] S.
P.
Bhat and D.
S.
Bernstein, “Geometric homogeneity with applications to finitetime stability,” Mathematics of Control, Signals and Systems, vol.
17, no.
2, pp.
