limit, with active learning and control,” Proc. R. Soc. A, vol. 478, no. 2260, Apr. 2022.   
[29] U. Fasel, E. Kaiser, J. N. Kutz, B. W. Brunton, and S. L. Brunton, “SINDy with control: A tutorial,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Decis. Control. IEEE, 2021, pp. 16–21.   
[30] A. Bressan, A. Cellina, and G. Colombo, “Upper semicontinuous differential inclusions without convexity,” Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., 1989.   
[31] G. Chowdhary and E. Johnson, “Concurrent learning for convergence in adaptive control without persistency of excitation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Decis. Control, 2010, pp. 3674–3679.   
[32] T. E. Ogri, M. Qureshi, Z. I. Bell, W. A. Makumi, and R. Kamalapurkar, “An output feedback approach to differential graphical games in networked linear systems,” IEEE Control Syst. Lett., vol. 9, pp. 2265–2270, Sep. 2025.   
[33] F. H. Clarke, “Generalized gradients and applications,” Trans. Am. Math. Soc., vol. 205, pp. 247–262, 1975.   
[34] J.-P. Aubin and A. Cellina, “Viability theory and regulation of controlled systems: The convex case,” in Differential Inclusions: Set-Valued Maps and Viability Theory. Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, Tokyo: Springer-Verlag, 1984, ch. 5, pp. 213–280.   
[35] E. A. Coddington and N. Levinson, Theory of ordinary differential equations. McGraw-Hill, 1955.   
[36] H. K. Khalil, Nonlinear systems, 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002.   
[37] D. Shevitz and B. Paden, “Lyapunov stability theory of nonsmooth systems,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 39 no. 9, pp. 1910–1914, 1994.   
[38] E. P. Ryan, “Discontinuous feedback and universal adaptive stabilization,” in Control of Uncertain systems. Springer, 1990, pp. 245–258.   
[39] C. D. Manning, P. Raghavan, and H. Schutze, ¨ An Introduction to Information Retrieval. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2008.
