# 13.1 INTRODUCTION

In this final chapter we attempt to give some perspective on the field of adaptive control. This is important but difficult because the field is in rapid development. The starting point is a short discussion of some closely related areas that are not covered in the book. These include adaptive signal processing in Section 13.2 and extremum control in Section 13.3. Particular attention is given to the field of adaptive signal processing, in which a cross-fertilization with adaptive control appears particularly natural.

Adaptive regulators and auto-tuning have complementary properties. Autotuners require very little prior information and give a robust ballpark estimate of gross system properties. Adaptive regulators require more prior knowledge, but they can give systems with much improved performance. It thus seems natural to combine auto-tuning with adaptive control in systems that combine several algorithms. Apart from algorithms for control, estimation, and design, it may also be useful to include supervision. It seems logical to use an expert system to monitor and control the operation of such a system. Systems of this type have been called expert control systems and are briefly discussed in Section 13.4. The use of expert systems also provides a natural way to separate algorithms from logic that occurs in all control systems.

Adaptation is related to learning; in Section 13.5 we discuss some early uses of learning in control systems and how it is related to adaptive control as we now understand it. In Section 13.6 we attempt to speculate on future directions in the theory and practice of adaptive control.
