# Process Description

A schematic view of the Gambro AK-10 dialysis system is shown in Fig. 12.17. Only the parts that are relevant to flow and pressure control are shown in detail. Clean water is heated to around $37^{\circ}$ C, and salt is added to physiological concentration. A pressure drop in the restrictor is created by the first pump to degas the solution. The restrictor and the first pump (P1) determine the flow into the dialyzer. Because of the compressibility of the air in the bubble chamber, flow changes to the dialyzer will be slowed down by a time constant.

After passing a few measuring devices and a valve, the fluid leaves the dialysis fluid monitor (DFM) and passes the first flow-measuring channel of the FCM before entering the dialyzer. Before returning to the DFM, the second measuring channel of the FCM is passed. In the DFM a few more measuring devices and valves are passed before the second pump (P2). A restrictor is placed on the outlet to allow positive pressures in the dialyzer.

To maintain a specified transmembrane pressure, the DFM has a control system that is based on a conventional fixed-gain digital PI controller. (See the block diagram in Fig. 12.18.) This controller has a sampling period of 0.16 s and an integration time of about 30 s. The purpose of the fluid control module is to control weight loss during the treatment. This is done by the external control loop shown in Fig. 12.18, which has the flow difference $Q_{f}$ as the measured variable and the setpoint to the pressure controller $p_{c}$ as the control variable.
