Disturbances in the process are caused by variations in the incoming gas and load changes. Large disturbances occur with changes in production level or with "shutdowns" caused by failure in surrounding process equipment. During shutdowns it is most important to maintain the process temperature as long as possible so that the production can be restarted easily. With the conventional control system, temperature fluctuations were around $\pm0.5^{\circ}C$ during normal operation and up to $\pm2^{\circ}C$ during larger disturbances. With adaptive control the variations were reduced to $\pm0.1^{\circ}C$ during normal operation and $\pm0.5^{\circ}C$ during large upsets.

The adaptive control system was implemented by using the ABB adaptive controller and the STAR3 module with feedforward from the reactor outlet temperature. By using the other modules in the system, it was also straightforward to handle the dual valves and to reset to manual mode for startup and shutdown. The system has been in continuous operation since 1982 on a reactor at Berol Kemi AB, which produces 30,000 tons per year. The operational experiences with the system have been very good. With adaptive control, it was possible to reduce the temperature fluctuations significantly. The controllers are now kept in automatic mode most of the time, even during production changes. This has made it possible to revise operational procedures, since operators do not have to spend their time supervising the reactor temperature.
