Inference Engine. The inference engine processes the rules to arrive at conclusions or to satisfy goals. It scans the rules according to a strategy, which decides from the context (current database of facts and goals) which production rules to select next. This can be done according to different strategies. In forward chaining the strategy is to find all conclusions from a given set of premises. This is typical for a data-driven operation. In backward chaining the rules are traced backward from a given goal to see whether the goal can be supported by the current premises. This is typical for a diagnosis problem. The search can be organized in many different ways, depth-first or breadth-first. There are also strategies that use the complexity of the rules to decide the order in which they are searched. To devise efficient search procedures, it is convenient to decompose the rule base into pieces that deal with related chunks of knowledge. If the rules are organized in that way, it is also possible for a system to focus its attention on a collection of rules in certain situations. This can make the search more efficient.

User Interface. The user interface can be divided into two parts. The first part is the development support that the system gives. This contains tools such as rule editor and rule browser for development of the system knowledge base. The other part is the run-time user interface. This contains explanation facilities that make it possible to question how a certain fact was concluded, why a certain estimation algorithm is executing, and so on. It is also possible to trace the execution of the rules. The user interface can also contain facilities to deal with natural language.
