Modern automobiles require precise control of air-fuel ratio to attain high catalytic converter efficiency and minimize tailpipe emissions. Air-fuel ratio control has two principal components: a closed-loop portion in which the fuel injectors are regulated in response to a signal fed back through a digital PI controller from an exhaust gas oxygen sensor located in the engine exhaust stream, and an open-loop or feedforward portion in which fuel flow is controlled in response to an estimate of the air charge entering the engine. (Compare Section 9.5.) This open-loop portion of the control is particularly important during engine transient when the inherent delay of the engine and exhaust system obviate the effectiveness of feedback, and during cold engine operation before the exhaust gas oxygen sensor has reached operational temperature. The purpose of the adaptive algorithm is to adjust the open-loop feedforward gain to reduce deviation from stoichiometric air-fuel ratio operation and improve emission performance under open- and closed-loop operation. This is essentially a gain scheduling process in which an adaptive multiplier is stored in a look-up table as a function of engine speed and load. Initially, all the table entries are unity. As the engine operates throughout its range, the appropriate cell values are increased or decreased to correct for parametric changes or inaccuracies in the initial calibration. In contrast to typical gain scheduling techniques, this adaptation is continuous throughout the vehicle's life.
