# 13.2 ADAPTIVE SIGNAL PROCESSING

Automatic control and signal processing have strong similarities; similar mathematical models and techniques are used in the two fields. However, there are also some significant differences. The time scales can be different. Signal processing often deals with rapidly varying signals, as in acoustics, in which sampling rates of tens of kilohertz are needed. In control applications it is often (but not always) possible to work with much slower sampling rates.

A more significant difference is that time delays play a minor role in signal processing. It is often permissible to delay a signal without any noticeable difficulty. Because control systems deal with feedback, even small time delays can result in drastic deterioration in performance. A third difference is in the industrial markets for the technologies. In signal processing, there are some standard problems that have a mass market, as in the field of telecommunications. The control market is more diversified and fragmented. Adaptive control is used to design control systems that work well in an unknown or changing environment. The environment is represented by process dynamics and disturbance signals. Adaptive signal processing is used to process signals whose characteristics are unknown or changing. More emphasis is given in signal processing to fast algorithms. Although there have been attempts to bring the fields closer together, much more effort is needed in this direction. To illustrate this, we will describe a few typical adaptive signal processing problems.
