Extremum control is related to optimization techniques; many of the ideas have been transferred from numerical optimization. There was great interest in extremum control in the 1950s and 1960s, and some commercial products were put on the market. For instance, the first computer control systems installed in the process industry were motivated by the possibility of optimizing the setpoints of the controllers. The interest then declined, partly because of the difficulty of implementing the optimizing controllers. Furthermore, there is great difficulty in finding appropriate process models. Developments in computers have led to a renewed interest in extremum control and its combination with adaptive control. Improved efficiency of the process can result in large savings in the energy and raw material costs.

Figure 13.6 shows a simplified block diagram of an extremum control system. The process can work in open loop or in closed loop, as in the figure. The most important feature is that the process is assumed to be nonlinear in the sense that at least the performance is a nonlinear function of the reference signal. The goal of the search algorithm is to keep the output as close as possible to the extremum despite changes in the process or the influence of disturbances. The output used in the search algorithm is some measurement of the performance of the system—for instance, efficiency. The conventional regulator can also use this signal, but it is more common for the regulator to use some other output of the process.
