Multivariable Control. Multivariable control problems can be handled to a limited extent by using the feedforward feature in the ABB adaptive controller and Firstloop. None of the commercial systems admit truly multivariable adaptive control. Up to now there have not been many applications of adaptive control to true multivariable systems. This situation can be expected to change significantly because of the substantial interest in model predictive control.

Pre-tuning. It is interesting to note that many schemes have been provided with a pre-tuning feature. In some cases it appears that this was added afterwards. The reason is undoubtedly that too much user expertise is required for the standard algorithms. The selection of sampling periods or the equivalent time scales is a typical example. It appears that the relay method for automatic tuning would be an ideal method for pre-tuning.

Tuning Automatically or on Demand. The existing products include systems in which tuning is initialized on demand from the operator or automatically. Users of both schemes have documented their experiences. It appears that there are a number of processes for which controllers should be retuned for different operating conditions. In many cases there are measurable signals that correlate well with the operating conditions. In these cases it seems that the combination of on-demand automatic tuning with gain scheduling is a good solution. This will give systems that change parameters faster than systems with adaptation. Of course, it is convenient to have tuning initiated automatically, but it is difficult to give general guidelines for when tuning should be initiated. The simple schemes that are currently in use are often based on simple level detection. Further research is required to find conditions for retuning; this is discussed further in Section 13.4.
