The initial values of the parameter estimates are important, since they determine the initial controller parameters. They were chosen to model a high-gain dialyzer, with an extra time delay, to give a cautious low-gain controller. This is perfect for a highly permeable (i.e., high-gain) membrane, but for normal membranes the pressure changes will be too small, a situation that is soon detected by the parameter estimator.

It is important to choose the P matrix carefully. This determines the speed of parameter estimation. Values of P that are too large will make the estimates noisy, and there is a risk that the estimates may temporarily give bad controllers. Also, a value of P that is too large can quickly eliminate the carefully chosen initial parameters in the estimator. With values of P that are too small the time needed to find a good model can be very long, a situation that is not at all acceptable.

It was found to be advantageous to introduce a lower bound on the estimated gain in the model. With low-gain dialyzers there would otherwise be a tendency for the estimator to decrease the gain estimate too much, and the controller gain would be too high for a while. A suitable limit for the model gain could be determined from the known data of existing dialyzers. To facilitate the checking of the estimated gain, a special form of the process model was used. The estimated pole was also bounded away from a pure integrator, since this pole enters the expression for the gain limit.

The limit on the setpoint changes also helps to ensure a smooth startup. The desired closed-loop poles are important design parameters. The equivalent time constants should be chosen to be long enough to give the estimator time to find a good model before the setpoint is approached for the first time. They should also be as short as possible to give a rapid response to setpoint changes. The equivalent time constants of the closed-loop systems were chosen to be 720, five, and three sample intervals, which correspond to 1 hour, 25 s, and 15 s, respectively. Without the requirement of a smooth startup it would have been possible to speed up the desired closed-loop dynamics considerably. However, setpoint changes are not very frequent, and smooth startup is much more important than rapid setpoint changes.
