# Expert Systems

One objective of expert systems is to develop computer-based models for problem solving that are different from physical modeling and parameter estimation. An expert system attempts to model the knowledge and procedures used by a human expert in solving problems within a well-defined domain. Knowledge representation is a key issue in expert systems. Many different approaches have been attempted, such as first-order predicate calculus (logic), procedural representations, semantic networks, production systems or rules, and frames. A knowledge-based expert system consists of a knowledge base, an inference engine, and a user interface.

The Knowledge Base. The knowledge base consists of data and rules. The data can be separated into facts and goals. Examples of facts are statements such as "The system appears to be stable," "PI control is adequate," and "Deviations are normal." Typical examples of goals are "Minimize the variations of the output," "Find out whether gain scheduling is necessary," and "Find a scheduling table." Data is introduced into the database by the user or via the real-time knowledge acquisition system. New facts can also be created by the rules. The rule base contains production rules of the type: "If premise then conclusion do action." The premise represents facts or goals from the database. The conclusion can result in the addition of a new fact to the database or modification of an existing fact. The action can be to activate an algorithm for diagnosis, control, or estimation. These actions are different from those found in conventional expert systems. The rule base is often structured in groups or knowledge sources that contain rules about the same subject. This simplifies the search. In the control application the rules represent knowledge about the control and estimation problem that are built into the system. This includes the appropriate characterization of the algorithms, judgmental knowledge about when to apply them, and supervision and diagnosis of the system. The rules are introduced by the knowledge engineer via the knowledge acquisition system, which assists in writing and testing rules.
