where $A^{*}$ , $B^{*}$ , and $C^{*}$ are polynomials in the delay operator $q^{-1}$ , y is the measured variable, u is the control signal, v is a feedforward signal, and $\Delta$ is the difference operator $1-q^{-1}$ . (Compare with Algorithm 3.6.) The integers NA, NB, and NC give the number of coefficients in the polynomials $A^{*}$ , $B^{*}$ , and $C^{*}$ , respectively. The number PL is the desired pole location for the optional pole. When parameter INT is zero, a similar model without differences is used. The parameters are estimated by using recursive least squares with a forgetting factor $\lambda = 0.98$ . Parameter estimation is suspended automatically when the changes in the control signal and the process output are less than PU and PY. The parameter updating may also be suspended on demand through the switch REGAD. In combination with other modules in the ABR adaptive controller system, this constitutes a convenient way to obtain robust estimation.

Control Design. The control law is given by

$$\left(\rho + B \left(q ^ {- 1}\right)\right) \Delta u (t) = (1 - P L) \left(u _ {c} (t) - y (t)\right) - A ^ {*} \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) \Delta y (t) - C ^ {*} \left(q ^ {- 1}\right) \Delta v (t)$$

where $\rho$ is a penalty factor related to PN. Since the algorithm is a direct self-tuner, the controller parameters are obtained directly from the estimated parameters.

Industrial Experiences. The ABB adaptive controller has been applied to a wide range of process control problems in the steel, pulp, paper, and petrochemical industries, wastewater treatment, and climate control. Some applications have given spectacular improvement of performance compared to PID control. This is particularly the case for processes with time delay, and in applications in which adaptive feedforward can be used. It has also been used to make special-purpose systems for special application areas such as paper winding and climate control. Some ABB adaptive controller applications are described in more detail in Section 12.5. The essential drawback of the ABB adaptive controller is that it is based on a direct self-tuner. This means that the sampling period and the parameter KD have to be chosen with care. It may, for example, be difficult to use very short sampling periods.
