Table 12.1 P-number variability under conventional and adaptive chip level control. (With courtesy of Paprican.)

<table><tr><td>Controller</td><td>Grade</td><td>Setpoint</td><td>Mean</td><td>Std. dev.</td><td>No days</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Conventional</td><td>R</td><td>23.0</td><td>22.2</td><td>2.06</td><td>23</td></tr><tr><td>K</td><td>21.0</td><td>19.9</td><td>1.91</td><td>6</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Adaptive</td><td>R</td><td>23.0</td><td>22.4</td><td>1.76</td><td>18</td></tr><tr><td>K</td><td>21.0</td><td>20.6</td><td>1.70</td><td>7</td></tr></table>

Pulp digesters have also been controlled by standard adaptive controllers. One example is the Vallvik mill at Assi Domän in Sweden where Novatune controllers in an ABB Master system are used extensively. Several Novatunes are used to control temperatures, flows and levels. The system was installed and commissioned by the regular mill staff with a core team of two enthusiastic engineers. The critical parameters in the Novatune were the sampling period and the prediction horizon; these values had to be selected individually for each application. Default values were used for the other parameters. The prediction sampling period is typically chosen to be 60% to 90% of the dead time, the predictions horizon is chosen as KD = 2 and the controller complexity as NA = NB = NC = 3. The standard procedure is to run the controllers in manual mode. The parameter estimation is switched on with restrictions on the control action, which are gradually removed.

The experience with adaptive control has been very good. Control performance is significantly better with adaptive control than with PID control. The systems have not required much attention after installation. The reason for improved performance is that tighter control is obtained with adaptive control. Experiments at the plant indicated that there was a good correlation between variations in chip level and the kappa-number. By introducing adaptive control of the chip level it was also possible to significantly reduce the variation in the kappa-number. The standard deviation was reduced from 0.52 to 0.30. It has also been observed that the adaptive controllers recover much faster from large upsets than the systems used previously.
