If by chance the desired pressure were already set at startup, there would be no pressure change that would help to improve the estimates of model parameters. Therefore there is a period of forced small pressure changes for the first eight minutes after a reset. This is accomplished by periodic changes of the setpoint every 45 s.

With an adaptive controller it is very important to ensure that the estimated model is never destroyed. Therefore the estimator should always be given true values for control and measured signals. If for some reason, such as an alarm situation causing the DFM to bypass the dialysis fluid, the control signal is not allowed to do its job, the estimator must be turned off. The controller will then use the old estimates for a while.

After all such breaks and at startup, a settling period is allowed, during which correct signals are entered into all the vectors but no estimation is done. This settling period is very important, especially at startup, when the estimates are most sensitive to changes in the signals. Errors in the signals also force the P-matrix to decrease rapidly, so future learning is slowed down considerably.

Alarms. Appropriate alarms are an important part of any useful control system. An alarm indicates if the volume control error is too large and also if something is wrong in the dialysis fluid monitor or with the pipes. If there is a stop in the blood pipe from the dialyzer to the drip chamber, the blood pressure within the dialyzer will rise, causing a large ultrafiltration rate and minimized pressure. The alarm in the FCM will then cause the DFM to enter a patient-safe condition.
