# Discussion

The products described give an idea of how adaptive techniques are used in commercial products. Additional insight can be derived by analyzing the existing products and trends. Experience from the applications clearly indicates the need for tuning and adaptation; there are undoubtedly many control loops that are poorly tuned. This results in loss of energy, quality, and effective production time. It is also of interest that many different techniques are used, and there are also promising adaptive algorithms that have not yet reached the marketplace. A few specific issues will be discussed in more detail.

Computing Power. Industrial use of adaptive methods has been possible because of the availability of microprocessors. Most of the commercial systems are based on 8-bit processors, with their inherent limitations in addressing capability. This applies to all the PID auto-tuners and the first version of the ABB adaptive controller that used less than 64 kbyte of memory. With 16-bit processors and larger address spaces it is possible to use more sophisticated algorithms and better human-machine communication. The PID auto-tuners typically run with sampling rates of 10–50 Hz.

Intentional Perturbation Signals. To estimate parameters, it is necessary to have data with variations in the control signal. Such variations can be generated naturally or introduced intentionally. Natural perturbations can occur because of disturbances or poorly tuned controllers. Intentional perturbations can be introduced when natural perturbations are not present, as suggested by dual control theory. This method is used in several of the auto-tuning schemes. If prior information about the system dynamics is available, it is possible to find signals that are optimal for the purpose of estimating parameters. Relay feedback automatically generates an input signal having a lot of energy at the frequency at which the process has a phase lag of $180^{\circ}$ . Although intentional perturbation signals are both useful and justified by theory, they are often controversial. It should be remembered, however, that poorly tuned controllers may also be considered perturbations.
