Controller Structures. Different controller structures are used in the commercial systems. There are both PID controllers and general transfer function systems that admit feedforward and compensation for dead time. The main advantage of the PID structure is that it is close to current industrial practice. Within the PID family there are cases in which derivative action is of little benefit. Systems like the SattControl ECA40 can determine this and choose PI action automatically. However, there is no system that can choose the controller structure generally, although it seems possible to design such systems.

The benefits of feedforward control from measurable disturbances have been known for a long time. Experience with the ABB adaptive controller and Firstloop clearly shows the benefit of adaptive feedforward control. Since feedforward control critically depends on a good model, adaptation is almost a prerequisite for feedforward control. Adaptive controllers like the ABB adaptive controller and Firstloop use a controller structure that is a general transfer function model like

$$R (q) u (t) = T _ {1} (q) u _ {c} (t) + T _ {2} (q) v (t) - S (q) y (t) \tag {12.1}$$

where u is the control variable, $u_{c}$ is the command signal, v is a measured disturbance, and y is the controlled output. The polynomials R, S, $T_{1}$ , and $T_{2}$ can be chosen so that the controller corresponds to a PID controller. However, the controller modeled by Eq. (12.1) can also be much more general than a PID controller. It can incorporate many classical features such as filtering, disturbance models, Smith predictors, and notch filters. For more demanding control problems the general transfer function controller thus has significant advantages over the PID controller. However, more expertise in control engineering is needed to understand and interpret the parameters of a controller like Eq. (12.1). Since the PID controller is so common, we can expect it to coexist with more general controllers for a long time.
