# Initialization

There are several ways to initialize a self-tuning algorithm, depending on the available a priori information about the process. In one case, nothing is known about the process. The initial values of the parameters in the estimator can then be chosen to be zero or such that the initial controller is a proportional or integral controller with low gain. Auto-tuning, discussed in Chapter 8, is a convenient way to initialize the algorithm, because it generates a suitable input signal and safe initial values of the parameters. This also gives a rational way of choosing the sampling interval.

The inputs and outputs of the process should be scaled so that they are of the same magnitude. This will improve the numerical conditions in the estimation and the control parts of the algorithm. The initial value of the covariance matrix can be 1–100 times a unit matrix if the elements in the $\varphi$ vector are scaled to approximately unity. These values are usually not crucial, since the estimator will get reasonable values in a very short period of time. Our experience is that 10–50 samples are sufficient to get a very good controller when the system is excited. During the initial phase it can be advantageous to add a perturbation signal to speed up the convergence of the estimator.

The situation is different if the process has been controlled before with a conventional or an adaptive controller. The initial values should then be such that they correspond to the controller used before. Furthermore, the P-matrix should be sufficiently small.

Sometimes it is important to have disturbances be as small as possible, owing to the startup of the self-tuning algorithm. There are then two precautions that can be taken. First, the estimator can be used for some sampling periods before the self-tuning algorithm is allowed to put out any control actions. During that time a safe, simple controller should be used. It is also possible and desirable to limit the control signal. The allowable magnitude can be very small during the first period of time and can then be increased when better parameter estimates are obtained. The drawback of having small input signals is that the excitation of the process will be poor, and it will take longer to get good parameter estimates.
