- Inputs and outputs should be filtered by a bandpass filter with $H_f$ before these signals are sent to the parameter estimator. These filters will remove low-frequency disturbances such as levels and ramps. High frequency disturbances are also removed by $H_f$ . The lower limit of the passband should be at least one decade below the desired crossover frequency. Known sinusoidals can also be removed by using notch filters.   
- The postsampling filter $G_{pf}$ is used to avoid excitation of high-frequency resonance modes in the process.   
- Low-order models are typically used. They are estimated with algorithms having time variable exponential forgetting, regularized constant trace, or directional forgetting. The estimator should also contain a dead zone. Finally, the estimator may contain a "switch," which detects whether the system is sufficiently excited. The "switch" can measure the power in different frequency bands and thus control whether the estimator should be active or not. Square root algorithms are preferable, particularly if there is a high signal to noise ratio.   
- The design method for the controller should be robust against unmodeled dynamics. Level and ramp disturbances are eliminated by introducing integrators in the controller. The control signal should be limited, and the controller should include anti-reset windup.

A block diagram of a reasonably realistic adaptive controller is given in Fig. 11.17. Adaptive controllers also contain parameters. Guidelines for choosing these have been given in this chapter.
