# Auto-tuning

Simple controllers with two or three parameters can be tuned manually if there is not too much interaction between the adjustments of different parameters, but manual tuning is not possible for more complex controllers. Traditionally, tuning of complex controllers has taken the route of modeling or identification and controller design. This is often a time-consuming and costly procedure, which can be applied only to important loops or to systems that are to be manufactured in large quantities.

All adaptive techniques can be used to provide automatic tuning. In such applications the adaptation loop is simply switched on. Perturbation signals may be added to improve the parameter estimation. The adaptive controller is run until the performance is satisfactory; then the adaptation loop is disconnected, and the system is left running with fixed controller parameters. The particular methods for automatic tuning of PID controllers that were discussed in Chapter 8 have been found to be particularly attractive because they require little prior information and are closely related to standard industrial practice.

Auto-tuning can be considered a convenient way to incorporate automatic modeling and design in a controller. It simplifies the use of the controller, and it widens the class of problems in which systematic design methods can be used cost-effectively. This is particularly useful for design methods such as feedforward that depend critically on good models.

Automatic tuning can be applied to simple PID controllers as well as to more complicated systems. It is very convenient to introduce tuning into a DDC package because the tuning algorithm can serve many loops. Auto-tuning can also be included in single-loop controllers. For example, it is possible to obtain standard controllers in which the mode switch has three positions: manual, automatic, and tuning. A well-designed auto-tuner is very easy to use, even for unskilled personnel. Experience has shown it to be useful both for commissioning of new systems and for routine maintenance. Auto-tuners can also be used to enhance the skill of the instrument engineers. Automatic tuning will probably also be a useful feature of more complicated controllers.
