# 13.1 Introduction

The notion of a mathematical model is fundamental to science and engineering. A model is a very useful and compact way to summarize the knowledge about a process. A model is also a very effective tool for education and communication. The design methods in the previous chapters assume that models for the process and the disturbances are given. The process models can sometimes be obtained from first principles of physics. It is more difficult to get the models of the disturbances, which are equally important. These models often have to be obtained from experiments. The types of models that are needed for the design methods presented here are either state-space models (internal models) or input-output models (external models). The models for the disturbances are for the internal models given as dynamic systems driven by white noise. For external models the disturbances are given in terms of spectral densities and covariance functions. Models for disturbances can, however, only rarely be determined from first principles. Experiments are thus often the only way to get models for the disturbances.

A process cannot be characterized by one mathematical model. A process should be represented by a hierarchy of models ranging from detailed and complex simulation models to very simple models, which are easy to manipulate analytically. The simple models are used for exploratory purposes and to obtain the gross features of the system behavior. The complicated models are used for a detailed check of the performance of the control system. The complicated models take a long time to develop. Between the two extremes, there may be many different types of models. The trademark of good engineering is to choose the right model for each specific purpose.
