# 12.1 Introduction

Optimal design methods based on input-output models are considered in this chapter. Design of regulators based on linear models and quadratic criteria is discussed. This is one class of problems that admits closed-form solutions. The problems are solved by other methods in Chapter 11. The input-output approach gives additional insight and different numerical algorithms are also obtained.

The problem formulation is given in Sec. 12.2. This includes discussion of models for dynamics, disturbances, and criteria, as well as specification of admissible controls. The model is given in terms of three polynomials. A very simple example is also solved using first principles. This example shows clearly that optimal control and optimal filtering problems are closely connected. The prediction problem is then solved in Sec. 12.3. The solution is easily obtained by polynomial division. A simple explicit formula for the transfer function of the optimal predictor is given.

The minimum-variance control law is derived in Sec. 12.4. For systems with stable inverses, the control law is obtained in terms of the polynomials that characterize the optimal predictor. For systems with unstable inverses, the solution is obtained by solving a Diophantine equation in polynomials of the type discussed in Chapter 5. The minimum-variance control problem may thus be interpreted as a pole-placement problem. This gives insight into suitable choices of closed-loop poles and observer poles for the pole-placement problem. The LQG-control problem is solved in Sec. 12.5. It is shown that the solution may be expressed in terms of spectral factorization and solution of a Diophantine equation. Practical aspects, such as selection of the sampling period, are given in Sec. 12.6.
