Note that we have treated source voltage as the first input, $u _ { 1 } = e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ , and gravitational acceleration as the second input, $u _ { 2 } = g$ . Of course, we have the freedom to modulate the first input $u _ { 1 }$ but we cannot adjust the second input $u _ { 2 } = g$ . The reader should see that Eqs. (11.69)– (11.71) match the mathematical modeling equations (11.65) and (11.68). Next, we define the perturbation vector from the nominal (reference) state $\delta \mathbf { x } = \mathbf { x } - \mathbf { x } ^ { * }$ , where $\mathbf { x } ^ { * } = [ I ^ { * } \quad z ^ { * } \quad \dot { z } ^ { * } ] ^ { T }$ is the reference state vector. We will define our reference state as static equilibrium (i.e., a levitating ball) for the nominal source voltage input $u _ { 1 } ^ { * } = e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ^ { * } ( t ) = 4 \mathrm { V } .$ . Equation (11.69) and (11.65) show that the steady-state coil current is $I _ { \mathrm { s s } } = e _ { \mathrm { i n } } / R$ and therefore the nominal current is $I ^ { * } = e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ^ { * } / R =$ $( 4 \mathrm { V } ) / ( 5 \Omega ) = 0 . 8 \mathrm { A }$ . We will define our nominal (or reference) static-equilibrium position for the nominal coil current to be $z ^ { * } = 0$ and $\dot { z } ^ { * } = 0$ . Therefore, the nominal state vector is $\mathbf { x } ^ { * } = [ 0 . 8 \ \mathrm { ~ 0 ~ } \ 0 ] ^ { T }$ and the nominal input vector is $\mathbf { u } ^ { * } = [ 4 \mathrm { ~ \ 9 . 8 1 } ] ^ { T }$ . Finally, we can solve Eq. (11.71) for the nominal air-gap distance d when the ball is in equilibrium $( { \mathrm { i . e . , } } { \dot { x } } _ { 3 } = \ddot { z } = 0 )$ with $x _ { 1 } ^ { * } = I ^ { * } = 0 . 8 \mathrm { A }$ and $x _ { \gamma } ^ { * } = z ^ { * } = 0$ and we obtain $d = 0 . 0 2 4$ m (24 mm). The reference or nominal operating point values for $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ^ { * } ( t ) , I ^ { * }$ , and d are summarized in Table 11.6.

Our standard linearization process described in Chapter 5 will yield

$$\delta \dot {\mathbf {x}} = \left. \frac {\partial \mathbf {f}}{\partial \mathbf {x}} \right| _ {*} \delta \mathbf {x} + \left. \frac {\partial \mathbf {f}}{\partial \mathbf {u}} \right| _ {*} \delta \mathbf {u} \tag {11.72}$$

where $\mathbf { f } ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { u } ) = \left[ f _ { 1 } ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { u } ) f _ { 2 } ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { u } ) f _ { 3 } ( \mathbf { x } , \mathbf { u } ) \right] ^ { T }$ is the $3 \times 1$ vector of the right-hand sides of Eqs. (11.69) – (11.71). Carrying out the partial derivatives of f(x, u) yields
