$$w = C _ {d} A _ {v} P _ {S} \sqrt {\frac {\gamma}{R T} C _ {r} ^ {\frac {\gamma + 1}{\gamma}}} \quad \text { if } \quad \frac {P}{P _ {S}} \leq C _ {r} \tag {11.30}$$

where $\gamma$ is the ratio of specific heats (=1.4 for air), $C _ { d }$ is the discharge coefficient for losses associated with flow through the orifice, and $A _ { \nu }$ is the orifice area due to the opening in the treadle valve. Orifice area is assumed to be equal to the product of orifice height h and valve displacement y, or $A _ { \nu } = h y$ . Equation (11.29) pertains to subsonic (“unchoked”) flow, where the ratio of downstream and upstream pressures $P / P _ { S }$ is greater than the critical pressure ratio $C _ { r } .$ . “Choked” flow involves sonic (Mach 1) flow at the valve orifice, and Eq. (11.30) shows that choked flow occurs when the upstream (supply) pressure is sufficiently larger than the downstream (chamber) pressure. The critical pressure ratio that divides the flow regimes is a function of $\gamma$

$$C _ {r} = \left(\frac {2}{\gamma + 1}\right) ^ {\frac {\gamma}{\gamma - 1}} \tag {11.31}$$

and is equal to 0.528 for air. The reader should note that when a constant supply pressure $P _ { S }$ is sufficiently high such that $P / P _ { S } \leq 0 . 5 2 8$ , Eq. (11.30) shows that the choked mass-flow rate is constant if valve area $A _ { \nu }$ and temperature T remain constant. Equations (11.27)–(11.31) constitute the mathematical model of the pneumatic subsystem. Table 11.4 presents the numerical values for all parameters for the air-brake system. Note that the maximum stroke (distance) of the push-rod is 0.04 m; that is, the brake lining is fully engaged with the drum when x = 0.04 m.
