However, Fig. 11.58 shows that the input to the lead-plus-integral controller is position error $z _ { \mathrm { r e f } } - z$ (in meters), which is the same error signal in the linearized closed-loop block diagram shown in Fig. 11.56. Furthermore, both controllers in Figs. 11.58 and 11.56 develop the command $\delta e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ , which is an incremental change in source voltage. Because the nonlinear Simulink model (Fig. 11.58) involves the “full” dynamic variables, we must add the incremental voltage command $\delta e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ to the nominal voltage $( e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ^ { \ast } = 4 \mathrm { V } )$ to produce the full voltage command $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ( t )$ in that is applied to the electromagnet coil (recall that by definition $\delta e _ { \mathrm { i n } } = e _ { \mathrm { i n } } - e _ { \mathrm { i n } } ^ { \ast } )$ . Figures 11.59 and 11.60 show the inner details of the electromagnet coil and mechanical ball subsystems, respectively. Note that the electromagnet coil dynamics (Fig. 11.59) are actually linear. However, we cannot use a transfer function (unless we revert to perturbation variables ??I and $\delta e _ { \mathrm { i n } } )$ because the electromagnet coil has a nonzero initial current. Therefore, the integrator in Fig. 11.59 must be initialized with current $I ^ { * } = 0 . 8 \mathrm { A }$ (recall that an 0.8-A current produces an electromagnetic force that levitates the ball at air gap distance $d = 2 4 \mathrm { m m } )$ . Figure 11.60 shows the nonlinear nature of the force $F _ { \mathrm { e m } }$ , which involves terms $I ^ { 2 }$ and $( d - z ) ^ { 2 }$ . Initial conditions for both integrators are set to zero because the ball begins in static equilibrium $( z ( 0 ) = \dot { z } ( 0 ) = 0 )$ . The reader should be able to correlate the governing mathematical model (11.65) and (11.68) with the subsystem block diagrams of Figs. 11.59 and 11.60.
