Finally, Fig. 11.28 shows the inner details of the mechanical subsystem block. This block diagram has many features similar to the mechanical subsystem for the solenoid actuator shown in Fig. 11.16. Both mechanical subsystems involve a contact force $F _ { C }$ due to the preload spring force pushing the mass against its seat. A dashed box in Fig. 11.28 indicates the part of the simulation diagram that computes the contact force. As shown in Eq. (11.25), $F _ { C }$ is determined by subtracting the differential pressure force from the preload spring force and sending the result to a Saturation block with a lower limit of zero and upper limit of +∞. Therefore, the contact force can never be negative (it cannot “pull” on the mass) and can only be a positive value that balances the difference between the preload force and the pressure force. However, Eq. (11.25) also shows that the contact force only exists when the piston is seated, or $x = 0$ , and therefore a Switch block (from the Signal Routing library) is used to switch the contact force to zero when $x > 0$ . Piston position x is fed back to input port 2 in the Switch block and is used as the “decision signal” for switching between the positive contact force and a value of zero. The Switch block has the following logic: if $x > 0$ , then pass the “top” signal $( \mathbb { F } \_ \mathrm { C } = 0 )$ ; otherwise, pass the “bottom” signal, which is the positive difference between the preload and differential pressure forces.
