Because the valve-orifice-flow equations (11.39) and (11.40) are complicated nonlinear functions, they are contained in a user-defined M-file instead of as a simulation diagram. MATLAB M-file 11.4 shows the customized M-file flow\_Q1.m, which computes the volumetric flow $Q _ { 1 }$ either from $P _ { S }$ to $P _ { 1 }$ (for y > 0), or from cylinder $P _ { 1 }$ to the reservoir $P _ { r } \left( \mathrm { f o r } y < 0 \right)$ . The customized M-file flow\_Q2.m is identical to flow\_Q1, except that it computes the flow in/out of cylinder chamber 2 and hence uses pressure $P _ { 2 }$ . The inner components of either orifice-flow subsystem shown in Fig. 11.34 consist of an Interpreted MATLAB Fcn block (M-file flow\_Q1 or flow\_Q2) with four inputs $( P _ { S } , P _ { r } , y _ { : }$ , and $P _ { 1 }$ or $P _ { 2 } )$ and a single output signal $( Q _ { 1 }$ or $Q _ { 2 } )$ . Therefore, both hydraulic-flow subsystems are similar to the pneumatic valve-flow subsystem shown in Fig. 11.26. Figure 11.35 shows the inner details of the pressure-rate subsystem for the right-side chamber $P _ { 1 }$ . The reader should be able to trace the signals and computations for volume $V _ { 1 }$ , volume-rate $\dot { V } _ { 1 }$ , and ultimately pressure-rate ${ \dot { P } } _ { 1 }$ . The second pressure-rate subsystem (for ${ \dot { P } } _ { 2 } )$ is nearly identical to Fig. 11.35, except that the volume computation is governed by Eq. (11.38). Finally, Fig. 11.36 shows the inner details of the mechanical subsystem. The reader should be able to identify the mechanical modeling equation (11.34) in the subsystem block diagram.
