# Simulink Model

The complete air-brake system model is fairly complex as indicated by Eqs. (11.24)–(11.30) and the multitude of system parameters summarized in Table 11.4. Before constructing the Simulink model, it is useful to identify and understand the state and input variables of the complete system. Equation (11.24) shows that the mechanical subsystem is second-order, and consequently can be defined by two state variables, piston position (x) and velocity (ẋ ). Chamber pressure P is the input to the mechanical subsystem, as it provides the actuation force. Equation (11.27) shows that the pneumatic system is first-order, and therefore involves a single state variable, chamber pressure P. Piston position and velocity are required to compute the chamber volume and its time derivative, which are both needed in the pressure-rate equation (11.27). Input mass-flow rate w is also needed in Eq. (11.27). It is determined by the appropriate orifice-flow equation, Eq. (11.29) or (11.30).

Table 11.4 Parameters for the Pneumatic Air-Brake System

<table><tr><td>System Parameter</td><td>Value</td></tr><tr><td>Diaphragm/push-rod mass,  $m$ </td><td>10 kg</td></tr><tr><td>Return spring,  $k$ </td><td>1250 N/m</td></tr><tr><td>Viscous friction coefficient,  $b$ </td><td>12 N-s/m</td></tr><tr><td>Preload spring force,  $F_{\text{PL}}$ </td><td>450 N</td></tr><tr><td>S-cam load force constant,  $k_1$ </td><td>2650 N/m</td></tr><tr><td>S-cam load force constant,  $k_2$ </td><td>23,700 N/m $^2$ </td></tr><tr><td>Maximum push-rod stroke,  $x_{\text{max}}$ </td><td>0.04 m</td></tr><tr><td>Diaphragm area,  $A_b$ </td><td>0.0129 m $^2$ </td></tr><tr><td>Minimum chamber volume (seated),  $V_0$ </td><td>1.64(10 $^{-4}$ ) m $^3$ </td></tr><tr><td>Atmospheric pressure,  $P_{\text{atm}}$ </td><td>1.0133(10 $^5$ ) N/m $^2$ </td></tr><tr><td>Gas constant,  $R$ </td><td>287 N-m/kg-K</td></tr><tr><td>Air temperature,  $T$ </td><td>298 K</td></tr><tr><td>Discharge coefficient,  $C_d$ </td><td>0.8</td></tr><tr><td>Valve orifice height,  $h$ </td><td>0.002 m</td></tr></table>
