The second dashed box in Fig. 11.28 shows the logic for enforcing the hard-stop limit for the piston/push-rod stroke, or $x \leq x _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ . Recall that the push-rod displacement x cannot exceed $x _ { \mathrm { m a x } } = 0 . 0 4$ m (4 cm) because of the full engagement of the S-cam and brake drum. This hard-stop limit is enforced by setting the upper limit in the velocity integrator block to 0.04. While setting the upper limit on the output of the velocity integrator will limit the stroke x, it will not provide accurate velocity information (which should become zero when the stroke x has reached its constant, maximum value). Therefore, the “saturation port” of the velocity integrator is enabled in order to provide a binary output signal that indicates whether the integrator output has reached its limit: if the binary signal is zero, the integral has not reached its limit; if the signal is unity, the upper limit is being applied to the integral. When the integral has reached its limit (i.e., $x = x _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and binary signal = 1), we wish to set the velocity signal-path variable ẋ to zero. Hence, we send the saturation port binary signal (0 or 1) to the Logical Operator block from the Logic and Bit Operations library. We select the Boolean operation NOT so that its output is 0 (FALSE) when the input is 1 (TRUE), and vice versa. In other words, the Boolean NOT operation takes a binary input signal (0 or 1) and produces an opposite binary output signal (1 or 0). This binary output signal is multiplied by the velocity signal ẋ to produce the velocity information to be used in the simulation. To summarize, the hard-stop logic shown in Fig. 11.28 passes the acceleration-integrator output (velocity) without alteration if $x < x _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ , but sets the velocity signal to zero if the stroke x has reached its hard-stop upper limit.
