# Pulse Response of the EHA

Next, we demonstrate the open-loop response of the EHA for a 10-V pulse input. We assume that the initial cylinder pressures are $P _ { 1 } = P _ { 2 } = 0 . 1 P _ { S }$ (the value of the initial pressure has little effect on the response as long as the system is initially in equilibrium, or $P _ { 1 } = P _ { 2 } )$ . The piston is initially at rest at the center of the cylinder, or x(0) = 30 cm. A constant (step) input voltage $( e _ { \mathrm { i n } } = 1 0 \mathrm { V } )$ is applied at time $t = 0 . 5 \ : \mathrm { s }$ and then stepped to zero at time t = 1 s in order to create a half-second pulse input.

Because the solenoid–valve subsystem is linear, it is relatively easy to compute its pulse response. Transfer function (11.41) shows that the DC gain of the solenoid is $K _ { \nu }$ and consequently the steady-state valve position is $e _ { \mathrm { i n } } \times K _ { \nu }$ , or $1 0 \mathrm { V } \times 2 ( 1 0 ^ { - 5 } ) \mathrm { m } / \mathrm { V } = 2 ( 1 0 ^ { - 4 } ) \mathrm { i }$ m (0.2 mm). The settling time of the valve is $4 / ( \zeta \omega _ { n } ) =$ 0.013 s (13 ms). Hence, the spool valve reaches its 0.2 mm steady-state position very quickly and with little overshoot because its damping ratio is $\zeta = 0 . 9$ . The valve closes in 13 ms after time t = 1 s when the pulse voltage is stepped to zero. Consequently, the valve response y(t) is very nearly a pulse itself with a magnitude of 0.2 mm for $0 . 5 < t < 1 \{ $ .

Figure 11.37 shows the piston response x(t) for the 10-V pulse input. The piston stroke exhibits a nearly linear increase from its initial position (30 cm) to its steady-state position (40.7 cm) during the 0.5 s pulse input. Figure 11.38 shows the volumetric-flow rates $Q _ { 1 }$ (into cylinder chamber 1) and $Q _ { 2 }$ (out of cylinder chamber 2). Note that during the “steady-state” phase of the valve opening, the magnitudes of the in- and out-flow rates are equal, which indicates that the differential pressure across the piston has reached a constant value. This phenomenon is confirmed by Fig. 11.39, which shows that the differential pressure exhibits a damped sinusoidal decay to a steady-state value of about 85,000 Pa during the pulse opening of the valve.
