# E.1 Classical vs modern control theory

State-space notation provides a more convenient and compact way to model and analyze systems with multiple inputs and outputs. For a system with p inputs and q outputs, we would have to write q × p transfer functions to represent it. Not only is the resulting algebra unwieldy, but it only works for linear systems. Including nonzero initial conditions complicates the algebra even more. State-space representation uses the time domain instead of the Laplace domain, so it can model nonlinear systems[1] and trivially supports nonzero initial conditions.

If modern control theory is so great and classical control theory isn’t needed to use it, why learn classical control theory at all? We teach classical control theory because it provides a framework within which to understand results from the mathematical machinery of modern control as well as vocabulary with which to communicate that understanding. For example, faster poles (poles moved to the left in the s-plane) mean faster decay, and oscillation means there is at least one pair of complex conjugate poles. Not only can you describe what happened succinctly, but you know why it happened from a theoretical perspective.

This book uses LQR and modern control over, say, loop shaping with Bode and Nyquist plots because we have accurate dynamical models to leverage, and LQR allows directly expressing what the author is concerned with optimizing: state excursion relative to control effort. Applying lead and lag compensators, while effective for robust controller design, doesn’t provide the same expressive power.
