With regard to design feature “e,” some more detail is in order. Specifically, some procedure to “guarantee” that a valid update has occurred is necessary to ensure mission effectiveness and safe warhead arming. One technique, which is presently used for TERCOM (used also in DSMAC (digital scene matching area correlation)), involves a voting logic with three successive fix scenes. Here, the determined fix point of two or three correlated scenes must be matched within an acceptable bound; otherwise, the fix sequence is rejected as an update. Although simple to implement and suitable for use with relatively invariant reference areas, the validity of this technique breaks down when the fix area is missed altogether, or when significant variations from the expected scene signature exist that cannot be modeled a priori. When coupled with the inherent modeling limitations of most sensor operating regions and modes, this technique does not provide any indication of the uncertainty in the “individual fixes” themselves. (Note that models developed should be sophisticated enough to accurately represent the real world, but not so much that they either require an inordinate amount of input, which may not be available even under the best of conditions, or machine processing time.)

One approach that can potentially minimize operational problems resulting from deficiencies in the present voting logic uses the correlation surface data generated by the map-matching algorithm for each in-flight fix to estimate the quality of the fix itself. If necessary, a similar voting sequence can be utilized based upon a minimum acceptable threshold associated with the probability of correct match for the number of fixes used per update. Techniques of this type use a comparison of the statistical distributions associated with the main and secondary peaks of the map-matching surface to estimate the quality of the fix itself.

The terrain correlation error parameters will now be summarized. The performance of the terrain correlation system is achieved by taking into account the uncontrollable errors in the system. They are (see also next section):
