Tables F.2 through F.7 summarize the development and classification of some of the modern U.S. tactical/strategic guided weapon systems. However, it should be noted that some of these have been phased out and replaced with more advanced state-of-the-art guidance and propulsion systems. Reliability of the guidance systems is always a primary subject for research. The major effort is for improvement of components of inertial systems, microelectronics, star trackers, and radar and infrared homing systems. The introduction of lasers, fiber optics, the global positioning system, etc., opened up a new field for highly accurate guidance systems as demonstrated in Operation Desert Storm in 1991, and in Yugoslavia in 1999. For more details on past and present guided weapons, the reader is referred to [2],[3],[4].

Table F.2. Air-to-Air Guided Mi s siles

<table><tr><td>Missile System and Designation</td><td>Guidance System</td><td>Speed</td><td>Range</td><td>Remarks</td></tr><tr><td>Sparrow III (AIM-7)Variants:AIM-7C IOC: 1958; AIM-7E IOC: 1963; AIM-7F IOC: 1976; AIM-7M IOC: 1983; AIM-7P IOC: 1990</td><td>Radar-guided. Inverse monopulse semiactive radar homing seeker.</td><td> $\text{Mach } 4^{+}$ </td><td>30 nm (56 km)</td><td>The Sparrow III is a radar-guided medium-range AAM with all-weather, all-altitude, and all-aspect offensive capability that has been in service for more than 40 years. The missile has been completely redesigned with new and improved guidance, warhead, and longer range.</td></tr><tr><td>Sidewinder (AIM-9)Variants:AIM-9A, 9B, 9H, 9J, 9L/P, 9M, and 9X.</td><td>IR homing; IIR.</td><td> $\text{Mach } 2^{+}$ </td><td>10 nm (18.5 km)</td><td>The Sidewinder is an AAM used by many western nations. It is used in the F-15C, F/A-18, and F-14&#x27;s. The AIM-9X Sidewinder II is the newest variant of the Sidewinder heat-seeking AAM; it is a replacement for the AIM-9M. The AIM-9X is a high-agility IIR missile that uses thrust vector control for additional maneuverability instead of tail-control. The AIM-9X provides BVR and short-range HOBS attack capabilities and is designed to work with the JHMCS.</td></tr></table>

(Continued)

Table F.2. (Continued)
