# RQ-1A, B, L Predator:

This is a medium-altitude, long-endurance UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle), flown remotely and controlled from the ground. It is envisioned primarily as a reconnaissance platform. More specifically, the Predator is a fire-and-forget, inertial guided system designed to strike targets from 17 m (55.78 ft) to 600 m (1968.6 ft) either by direct attack or by flying over the target and shooting at the most vulnerable aspect in an attack profile, known as fly-over, shoot-down mode. Navigation is accomplished by GPS/INS. It cruises at 75 mph (it can reach 90 mph) an altitude of 10,000–15,000 ft (with a ceiling of 25,000 ft), and has a range of about 500 nm. Note that the Predator must fly as high as 25,000 ft to avoid shoulder-fired weapons. Moreover, the Predator can cover mobile targets from a 15,000-ft slant range for at least 24 hours. This UAV has already demonstrated its capability during surveillance missions over Bosnia and in Operation Allied Force in the skies above Kosovo, Yugoslavia, where it collected intelligence data and searched for targets. The Predator can stay in the air for 40 hours, loitering over dangerous areas, and is equipped with EO/IR and SAR sensors with a $K _ { u } \mathrm { - } \mathrm { b a n d }$ (12–18 GHz range) satellite data link allowing real-time transmissions of video images to a ground station (i.e., it sends back real-time video images to commanders of what it is observing). In the Afghanistan conflict, live video was transferred from the Predator (RQ-1B) to AC-130 gunships and real-time retargeting of heavy bombers. The Predator can also spot buried land mines, even newer plastic versions that elude other radars. Pilots fly the aircraft remotely from vans at their base, using controls found in a normal cockpit. (Note that one problem with controllers mentioned is the limited field of view.)
