Another topic that must be addressed and explored in connection with terrain mapping is data storage and compression. For most geographic areas, terrain height data are available with considerably greater resolution than required for typical terrainaided navigation (TAN) applications, and moreover, storage and retrieval of the data in real time imposes a severe burden on the airborne computer and/or hardware. Various techniques for data compression (e.g., finite 2-D cosine transforms) are available that are entirely adequate for this application.

We will now discuss in some detail the TAN concept. TAN is a recursive real-time algorithm designed for use on the advanced fighter technology integration (AFTI) F-16 aircraft. Developed by the Sandia National Laboratories in collaboration with the Air Force Wright Aeronautical Laboratories, Avionics Laboratory, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, in the early 1980s (note that the TAINS system was first used in the early 1970s), SITAN (Sandia inertial terrain-aided navigation) as it came to be known, is a flight-computer algorithm that produces a very accurate trajectory for low-flying, high-performance aircraft by combining outputs from a radar or laser altimeter, an INS, and a digital terrain elevation map. Moreover, TAN estimates aircraft position using measurements from the INS and measurements of terrain variations along the aircraft’s flight path. In Section 7.4.7 we discussed how TERCOM is used to update the INS. However, due to the open-loop nature of an inertial navigation system, the position error tends to increase monotonically with time. This problem can be resolved by integrating the INS with the GPS (for more details in INS/GPS integration, see Section 7.5.1), that is, resetting the INS periodically with GPS position fixes. In this particular application, we are interested in using TAN. Using TAN, the error drift in the INS can be mitigated by utilizing measurements of the terrain elevations along the flight path of the aircraft and matching them with an onboard digital terrain elevation database (DTED). Consequently, the instantaneous terrain elevation underneath the aircraft is computed as the difference between the aircraft altitude obtained by measuring the air pressure, and the distance between the aircraft and the terrain measured by an altimeter.
