# F.2 Unpowered Precision-Guided Munitions (PGM)

In this section we will discuss the role of the precision-guided bomb, or GBU-series. Historically, the unpowered Paveway Bomb Series, known as Paveway I, II and III PGMs, is based on the Mk 80 low-drag general-purpose unguided bomb series that was developed in the 1950s (see also Section 5.6). Specifically, the Paveway family (or series) consists of electronic guidance units and fin kits that attach to the nose and tail of standard 500-lb (226.8-kg), 1,000-lb (453.6-kg), and 2,000-lb (907.2-kg) conventional Mark-series bombs. The guidance unit includes a control section, computer, and laser detector. All weapons within a Paveway series (e.g., all Paveway IIs) use the same electronics package, but the wing assembly, canards, and structure are tailored to the particular bomb size. The Paveway IIs were designated GBU-10E/B (Mk 84), -12E/B (Mk 82), and -16C/B (Mk 83), and Paveway III as GBU-24A/B (Mk 84) and GBU-27. (Note that the Paveway IIs are laser-guided bombs.) The lessons learned from the GBU-10 series and GBU-15 precision-guided weapons systems assisted in developing the U.S. Air Force’s rocket-powered AGM-130 standoff land-attack missile [3]. (Note that the AGM-130 is a powered version of the GBU-15 that has been heavily used against the well-protected portions of the integrated air defense systems of both Iraq and Yugoslavia since the beginning of 1999; the AGM-130 uses TV guidance and has a range of 30 miles; see also Table F.3.)

Among the best known of these GBUs (guided bomb unit) is the GBU-15. The GBU-15 glide bomb can be fitted with two types of warheads, either the Mk 84 2,000-lb blast-fragmentation bomb or the BLU-109 deep-penetrating bomb. The blast fragmentation warhead is used for attacks on conventional buildings, air-defense weapons, aircraft, and radar sites, while the penetrator is aimed at reinforced aircraft hangars, command and control bunkers, and other hardened targets.
