In addition to the UAV efforts described above, the U.S. Navy is exploring the possibility of controlling small tactical UAV s from submarines for the long-term goal of using them to clandestinely find targets ashore and attack them with cruise missiles. The relatively small 12-ft (3.66-m) wingspan, 100-lb (45.36-kg) vehicle would carry a color video camera to collect imagery that can be transmitted to the submarine by a 100-nm (185.3-km)-range UHF data link. Toward this end, the Navy is using on an experimental basis the Dakota air vehicle. The Dakota is serving as a surrogate air vehicle for a future operational system. The Navy would like to field a submarine-launched, expendable UAV that could stay airborne for 12 hr. Moreover, the Dakotas, used primarily for reconnaissance, may deploy a network of ground sensors and act as a relay between the submarine and the sensors ashore. The Dakota is an autonomous air vehicle using GPS guidance and would not have required updates unless commanders wanted to alter the flight plan. Northrop Grumman also is developing a submarine-launched surveillance UAV concept. Once a mission plan was uploaded on the UAV, the submarine would have been in a receive-only mode in order to avoid detection through its emissions. For a future tactical version, the payload would be refined with a limited automatic target recognition system. Rather than transmitting all video to the submarine, the UAV would broadcast imagery only after recognizing a target to reduce bandwidth demands. It would also use digital communications rather than the analog data link used in the demonstration. Finally, in order to preserve covertness, the Navy is willing to make the system expendable.

The U.S. Army is also studying the possibility of using its Shadow 200 tactical unmanned aerial vehicle (T-UAV ) for signal intelligence, or Sigint. In this initial stage of the program, only an EO/IR sensor is considered as a baseline payload. Sensors will be required to collect signals in the 20–2,000-MHz region. Operationally, the Sigint-UAV is intended to support brigade commanders. Locating an emitter would be the primary role for the payload. Anticipated IOC for the program is in the year 2007.

EADS (European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co.) is studying a design for a URAV in the 1,500-kg (3,307-lb) takeoff weight class. The URAV will be 5.5-meters (21-ft) long with a 4.1-meter (13.5-ft) wingspan and have low-observable requirements. The URAV would operate similarly to a recoverable cruise missile with a data link to a ground control station.

It is conceivable that future strike forces will include a mix of unmanned combat air vehicles and manned aircraft. UCAVs offer such strengths as persistence, expandability and stealth.
