# 7.4.1 Introduction

Terrain contour matching (TERCOM) can be defined as a technique for determination of the position location of an airborne vehicle with respect to the terrain over which the vehicle is flying. More specifically, TERCOM is a form of correlation guidance based on a comparison between the measured and the prestored features of the profile of the ground (i.e., terrain) over which a missile or aircraft is flying. Generally, terrain height forms the basis of this comparison. Reference terrain elevation source data descriptive of the relative elevations of the terrain in the fix point areas are stored in the air vehicle’s onboard computer. Obtaining the reference data requires prior measurement of the ground contours of interest. These data are in the form of a horizontally arranged matrix of digital elevation numbers. A given set of these numbers describes a terrain profile. The length of contour profile necessary for a unique fit is a function of terrain roughness, but is in the range of 6 to 10 km and can be a curved path. The TERCOM profile acquisition system consists of a radar terrain sensor (RTS) or a radar altimeter and a reference altitude sensor (RAS) or barometric altimeter.

As the vehicle flies over the matrix area, data describing the actual terrain profile beneath the vehicle are acquired. That is, the actual profile is acquired using a combination of radar and barometric altimeter outputs sampled at specific intervals, and when compared against the stored matrix profiles provides the position location. This type of guidance is used for updating a midcourse guidance system on a periodic basis, and has been applied to the guidance of cruise missiles, which usually fly at subsonic speeds and fairly constant altitude. With regard to midcourse guidance, it is well known that the simplest midcourse guidance is the explicit guidance method (see also Section 6.5.5). The guidance algorithm has the capability to guide the missile to a desired point in the air while controlling the approach angle and minimizing an appropriate cost function. Furthermore, the guidance gains of the explicit guidance law are usually selected to shape the trajectory for the desired conditions.
