TERCOM is somewhat of a misnomer, since the process does not accurately match terrain contours to determine a fit, and thus the missile’s location. Rather, the “match” occurs by determining the minimum value of a summation of terrain altitude differences. The altitude for each cell of a reference strip is subtracted from cell altitudes derived from a combination of the missile’s radar altimeter and air data system to obtain these differences. The map strip identified by the minimum summation locates the crosstrack position of the missile. The downtrack position of the missile is determined from the time that the minimum value occurred. Significant in this process is the fact that the reference map data are stored as a 4-bit words, limiting the number of possible altitudes to 16 quantized levels. Radar altimeter data are stored as 4-bit words. It should be noted that TERCOM fix accuracy degrades with increasing altitude. Above a radar altitude of 4 to 5 times the cell size, the accuracy degrades to the point that terrain correlation is not feasible.

Another terrain-aided navigation system developed in recent years is the TERPROM (terrain profile matching). TERPROM is a computer-based high-accuracy terrain profile matching navigation system using data from a radar altimeter and a digital map to determine the precise position of the air vehicle. Specifically, TERPROM stores terrain height for a 200,000-square-mile area and determines air vehicle position by radar altimeter measurement of the topography below. TERPROM has been successfully flown under simulated combat conditions in F-16 and Panavia Tornado aircraft.

The heart of the system is a processor with an electronic memory that stores a terrain map in digital form. This map, together with the weapon’s navigation system, is used to predict height above the ground. The processor then compares the prediction with the true height as measured by the radar altimeter. The difference is used to correct readouts from the navigation system. The following modes are commonly used:

(1) Acquisition or Single-Fix: Used to locate weapon position on the database during the early part of its flight or when reaching land after extended periods over water.
