The GPS system is functionally divided into three segments: (1) the space segment (i.e., the satellites), (2) the control segment, and (3) user equipment (i.e., receivers). These three segments will now be discussed in more detail. As stated above, the space segment consists of a constellation of 21 satellites plus 3 active spares, operating in circular orbits at an altitude of 10,898 nm (20,183 km). The satellites are uniformly distributed in 6 orbital planes, so that 4 to 7 satellites are visible at any time on the Earth (i.e., at $5 ^ { \circ }$ or more above the horizon). The orbit planes are inclined at $5 5 ^ { \circ }$ with respect to the equatorial plane, with a 12-hour period. NAVSTAR measures the range to a set of four satellites by timing the arrival of radio signals transmitted from the satellites at precisely known times. Theoretically, a minimum of three satellites would allow a position fix to be obtained, but since three satellites may not always be in suitable positions (or view), and because timing errors in the receiving system have to be eliminated, a fourth satellite is necessary. Each satellite transmits specially coded signals that allow individual satellites to be distinguished, and the range and rate of range change (i.e., velocity) of the user to be measured. And as stated above, the signals are pseudorandom binary noise (PRN). The control segment consists of five monitor stations located around the world that track all satellites in view of their antennas. Data are transmitted to a master control station (MCS) where processing takes place to determine orbital and clock modeling parameters for each satellite. Specifically, the information from the monitor stations is processed at the MCS to determine satellite orbits and to update the navigation message of each satellite. This updated information is uploaded (i.e., transmitted) to the satellites via the ground antennas. The satellites then incorporate this information into the data message.
