# 7.3 Cruise Missile Navigation System Error Analysis

Section 7.2 discussed briefly the function of the cruise missile inertial navigation system (INS). As mentioned in that section, the INS can be of the gimbaled or strapdown variety. (Note that because of the widespread use of ring laser or fiber optic gyros, the present-day generation of inertial systems are of the strapdown type.) This section addresses the characteristics of the air-launched cruise missile navigation system and indicates the features that have been designed in order to achieve the missile’s performance criteria. The system has successfully demonstrated all accuracy requirements. The air-launched cruise missile navigation function mechanization described herein satisfies the requirements to provide worldwide navigation following alignment and launch from the carrier aircraft and using the terrain correlation and/or the GPS system for periodic position updates. In essence, the navigation function for the cruise missile must satisfy three major modes of operation: (1) captive alignment, (2) free flight navigation, and (3) terrain correlation. These functions are performed by the navigation software. The alignment software can be further divided into coarse alignment and fine alignment. Coarse alignment is performed by the navigation module. The software provides a command to coarse-level the air vehicle platform to slew (assuming a gimbaled inertial platform) in azimuth even during carrier aircraft turns. It also commands the platform to the same direction as the carrier aircraft inertial platform. This slewing procedure simplifies the fine alignment mode. Fine alignment is performed by a Kalman filter. Given the requirements for fine alignment (e.g., alignment in 30 minutes or less), the best solution is to use the free flight Kalman filter for alignment. This Kalman filter resides in the carrier aircraft master computer.

Free flight navigation is performed by the navigation module. The major functional elements of the free flight navigation system are shown in Figure 7.7. The four major computational blocks of the free flight navigation system are (1) inertial navigation, (2) vertical channel (including air data), (3) terrain correlation, and (4) the free flight Kalman filter.
