<table><tr><td>Missile System and Designation</td><td>Guidance System</td><td>Speed</td><td>Range</td><td>Remarks</td></tr><tr><td>Harpoon (AGM-84)Variants:AGM-84A/C/D/G.R/UGM-84/A/C/D/G(Submarine-launched).</td><td>3-axis ARA to monitor the missile&#x27;s relation to launch platform.</td><td>Mach 0.85</td><td>75–80 nm(139–148 km)</td><td>For a detailed description of the Harpoon, see Table F.3. The Harpoon is being improved under the Block 2 effort.</td></tr><tr><td>Slam (AGM-84E-1)</td><td>Variants of the SLAM use either single-channel GPS receiver, IIR seeker, man-in-the-loop terminal guidance, 3-axis ARA, or terminal homing IIR seeker. The SLAM navigates to the target area using a preloaded mission profile updated by real-time GPS data.</td><td>Mach 0.85</td><td>60 nm (111 km)</td><td>The SLAM is a derivative of the Harpoon. Used in the A-6E, F/A-18, F-16, and B-52 aircraft.</td></tr><tr><td>Slam ER (AGM-84H)</td><td>Adaptive terrain following, a passive seeker, and precise aim-point control.</td><td>Mach 0.90</td><td>&gt;150 nm(278 km)</td><td>The air-launched SLAM-ER, an evolutionary upgrade to the AGM-84E SLAM, is designed to strike high-value fixed land targets, as well as ships at sea or in port. Moreover, the SLAM-ER has an improved penetrating warhead to strike its target with precision and lethality. It also has provisions for installation of automatic target recognition. The wings of the AGM-84H can be folded so that it can be mounted on the pylon of an F/A-18E/F Super Hornet strike fighter.</td></tr></table>

Table F.7. Surface-to- Surface B allistic Mis siles
