Data Acquisition: As the vehicle flies over the fix point area, data are acquired by sampling the altitude of the vehicle above the terrain directly below it at an interval equal to the reference map cell size. This “sensed altitude” is measured with a radar altimeter. At the same time, the vehicle’s altitude above mean sea level is measured using the combination of a barometric altimeter and a vertical accelerometer to provide the system reference altitude. The acquired terrain elevation samples are then stored in a file in the vehicle’s onboard digital computer memory. This terrain elevation file represents a discrete elevation profile of the terrain along a line coincident with the vehicle’s ground track. The total number of elevation samples stored in the terrain elevation file is a function of the downtrack dimension of the reference map. A typical size for the file is 64 samples, which would represent a 4.2 nm (7.78 km) strip of terrain if sampled at 400-ft (122-m) intervals.

Data Correlation: The last step in the terrain contour matching process is the correlation of the data in the terrain elevation file with each column of the reference matrix. The reference column that has the greatest correlation with the terrain elevation file is the column down which the vehicle has flown. With no navigation error, the match column would be the center column of the map, since that is the ground track the navigation system is steering along. However, with downtrack and crosstrack errors, it is probable that some column other than the center one will be flown down. In this case, the system computes the downtrack and crosstrack distance from the center of the map and uses these errors to correct the vehicle’s navigation error.

In block diagram form, a generalized TERCOM system operation is illustrated in Figure 7.12.
