The user segment consists of equipment designed to receive and process the satellite signals. These are commonly referred to as UE (user equipment). The unique codes transmitted by each satellite allow the use of common radio frequency (RF) carrier frequencies throughout the constellation, a process known as code division multiplexing. Measurements from four satellites are required in the general case. The DoD (Department of Defense) has developed two classes of receivers: (1) continuous tracking, and (2) sequential tracking. The continuous tracking receiver provides a dedicated channel for each satellite being tracked and a fifth channel that performs ancillary functions (e.g., ionospheric corrections and interchannel bias measurement). For example, in a GPS receiver that operates on an aircraft, there are typically four code loops (or channels) each tracking different satellites. GPS receivers may be designed to time multiplex channels, enabling navigation to be performed using only one or two channels and switching between satellites. However, this results in a loss of performance during maneuvers, such as in a fighter aircraft. Therefore, a fivechannel receiver is commonly used; the function of the fifth channel is to scan for new satellites. (Note that recently, GPS receivers have been designed with as many as 12 channels.) The sequential receiver has one or two channels, for low- and mediumdynamic applications, respectively. In these receivers the channels are time shared among satellites and housekeeping chores.

GPS receivers determine a navigation solution consisting of latitude, longitude, altitude, and velocities by processing coded signals from the satellites. Specifically, GPS measurements are obtained by determining the relative time between transmission from the satellite to receiver. The measurement consists of a range and receiver clock bias and is referred to a pseudorange [5]. Pseudorange consists of four components (i.e., three positions and a clock bias). As stated above, by tracking signals from four satellites, and using information contained in the satellite broadcast, a system of equations can be solved to determine receiver position and receiver clock bias relative to GPS system time.
