# MQM-107D/E Streaker:

This is a jet-powered recoverable, variable-speed target drone. The third-generation D model is a recoverable, variable-speed target drone used for RDT&E (research, development, test, and evaluation) and weapon system evaluation, while the fourthgeneration E model with improved performance is now operational. The guidance and control system is either underground control or preprogrammed flight, and has high-g autopilot provisions. The MQM-107D/E’s speed is 230–594 mph, operating at an altitude of 50–40,000 ft, with an endurance of 2 hr, 15 min. The IOC (initial operating capability) was in 1987.

Table E.4. Status Prefix Symbols 

<table><tr><td>Letter</td><td>Title</td><td>Description</td></tr><tr><td>J</td><td>Special Test, Temporary</td><td>Vehicles on special test programs by authorized organizations and vehicles on bailment contract having a special configuration to accommodate the test. At completion of the test, the vehicles will be either returned to their original configuration or returned to standard operational configuration. Example: J85-GE-7 turbojet engine.</td></tr><tr><td>N</td><td>Special Test, Permanent</td><td>Vehicles on special test programs by authorized activities and vehicles on bailment contract whose configurations are so drastically changed that return of the vehicles to their original configurations is beyond practicable or economical limits.</td></tr><tr><td>X</td><td>Experimental</td><td>Vehicles in a developmental or experimental stage, but not established as standard vehicles for service use.Example: Army&#x27;s Nike Zeus XLIM-49A.</td></tr><tr><td>Y</td><td>Prototype</td><td>Preproduction vehicles procured for evaluation and test of a specific design.</td></tr><tr><td>Z</td><td>Planning</td><td>Vehicles in the planning or predevelopment stage.</td></tr></table>
