Note that the all-weather attack GBU-32 JDAM uses GPS/INS to home in on its target with a high degree of accuracy (better than 6 meters (19.68 ft)). Each JDAM carries a 1,000-lb or 2,000-lb warhead and can destroy or disable military targets within a 40-foot radius of its point of impact. Furthermore, JDAMs can be dropped from more than 15 miles from the target, with updates from GPS satellites guiding the bombs to their target. A B-1B bomber can carry 24 JDAMs. The 1-ton JDAM can be selected for air-burst, impact, or penetrating mode. A typical B-1B mission might involve targets such as airplane shelters, bridge revetments, or command bunkers. The B-1B’s use of JDAMs became operational in 1999 (see also Section 5.12.2).

As mentioned above, the GPS is being applied to a broad range of weapons, such as the GBU-32 JDAM (see Table F.8). Specifically, the use of GPS will improve the overall performance and accuracy of laser-guided bombs; that is, GPS will improve its resistance to laser jamming or clouds interrupting the laser beam. The updated GBUs can conduct blind bombing against preloaded GPS coordinates. For example, if the laser spot disappears because of a cloud cover or is obscured because of jamming, then guidance temporarily reverts to the GPS coordinates. In the near future, JDAMs will be equipped with an FMU-152 A/B turbine alternator and FZU-55 A/B fuze mechanism. The fuze and alternator will allow pilots to reprogram the JDAM during a mission.

In addition to the GBU-15, other candidate weapons include the GBU-24 (a 2,000- lb, laser-guided bomb used by the F-15E and F-16), GBU-27, and EGBU-27 (a laserguided bomb designed for the F-117A Nighthawk stealth fighter), and the GBU-28 (a 5,000-lb bomb designed to penetrate deep bunkers). A variant of the GBU-24 guided hard-target penetrator bomb, the GBU-24E/B, is used by the Navy’s F-14D Tomcats. The GBU-24E/B, a 2,200-lb (998-kg) bomb, adds GPS guidance to the existing laser guidance of the Navy’s GBU-24B/B baseline. Specifically, the E/B first heads toward a GPS target point, and the laser designator can refine that point or steer the bomb toward a different target. Figure F.1 illustrates a Paveway III GBU.
