Table E.3 shows the types of vehicles that have a combat-related mission. The last two items of a missile designator are the design number and series symbol. The same design number identifies each vehicle type of the same basic design. Where more than one design is present for a single vehicle type, consecutive design numbers are assigned. When major modifications are present in a vehicle type, then a sequential letter (e.g., A, B) indicates each modification. For example, the latest version (as of this writing) or modification of the Sidewinder air interceptor missile is the AIM-9X (see Table F.2).

Table E.2. Mission Symbols

<table><tr><td>2nd Letter</td><td>Title</td><td>Description</td><td>Example</td></tr><tr><td>D</td><td>Decoy</td><td>Vehicles designed or modified to confuse, deceive, or divert enemy defenses by simulating an attack vehicle.</td><td>ADM-20A (Quail)</td></tr><tr><td>E</td><td>Special Electronic</td><td>Vehicles designed or modified with electronic equipment for communications, countermeasures, electronic radiation sounding, or other electronic recording or relay missions.</td><td>XFEM-43B (Redeye)</td></tr><tr><td>G</td><td>Surface Attack</td><td>Vehicles designed to destroy enemy land or sea targets.</td><td>See Table E-1</td></tr><tr><td>I</td><td>Intercept-Aerial</td><td>Vehicles designed to intercept aerial targets in defensive or offensive roles.</td><td>AIM-9E (Sidewinder)</td></tr><tr><td>Q</td><td>Drone</td><td>Vehicles designed for target, reconnaissance, or surveillance purposes.</td><td>BQM-34A (Firebee)</td></tr><tr><td>T</td><td>Training</td><td>Vehicles designed or permanently modified for training purposes.</td><td>ATM-12B (Bullpup)</td></tr><tr><td>U</td><td>Under water Attack</td><td>Vehicles designed to destroy enemy submarines or other underwater targets.</td><td>UUM-44A (SUBROCK)</td></tr><tr><td>W</td><td>Weather</td><td>Vehicles designed to observe, record, or relay data pertaining to meteorological phenomena.</td><td>PWN-5A</td></tr></table>

In addition to the launch environment, mission, and vehicle type, the status is also used (see also Appendix F). The status prefix designations are listed in Table E.4.
