Table F.3. (Continued)

<table><tr><td>Missile System and Designation</td><td>Guidance System</td><td>Speed</td><td>Range</td><td>Remarks</td></tr><tr><td>or submunitions, and is intended against relatively soft targets. AGM-154B is loaded with six sticks of BLU-108/B sensor-fuzed submunition arrays.AGM-154C carries the same BLU-111/B 500-lb unitary warhead used in the Mk 82 iron bombs.</td><td>Tightly coupled GPS/INS for midcourse, IIR terminal guidance.</td><td>Subsonic</td><td>17 miles (27km) from low altitudes; 40 miles (64km) from high-altitude launch.</td><td>antennas, launchers, and control vans). JSOW allows for integration of several different submunitions and unitary warheads, nonlethal payloads, various terminal sensors, and different modes of propulsion into a common glide vehicle. IOC: Navy 1998, USAF 2000. The B-2 will use both the JSOW with bomblets and a second version with the BLU-108 antiarmor submunition. The JSOW is intended for use in the F/A-18s and F-16 fighters.</td></tr><tr><td>AGM-158 JASSM</td><td>GPS/INS, IIR</td><td>Mach 0.6–0.8</td><td>300nm (556km)</td><td>This is a conventional AF/Navy missile program. After previous failures, the missile was successfully flight tested on Nov. 20, 2001, at the Army&#x27;s White Sands Missile Range. The missile was fired from an F-16 flying about 15,000 ft at Mach 0.8. New design changes include a new IIR seeker, new missile control unit, and the addition of selective availability antijam GPS receiver. The first aircraft to field JASSM (or Jassm) will be the B-52 in 2003. The Navy plans to use the missile on the F/A-18s.</td></tr></table>

Table F.4. Surface-to-Air Guided Mis siles .
