During the 1990–1991 Persian Gulf Operation Desert Storm, the GBU-15 glide bomb with IR and TV guidance was used with great effect by F-111F pilots against Iraqi targets. Specifically, during Operation Desert Storm, the GBU-15s were dropped from F-111s destroying targets from a standoff range of 16–20 nm. Given this standoff range, F-15E Strike Eagle fighters can launch these glide bombs outside the lethal envelope of most antiaircraft missiles.

Development of the GBU-15 began in 1974, based on experience gained in Vietnam with the earlier Pave Strike GBU-8 modular weapon program. As a result of the Operation Allied Force in the air war against Yugoslavia, the U.S. Air Force will modify the GBU-series of glide bombs to enable them to hit targets through heavy clouds. In particular, the Enhanced GBU-15 (or EGBU-15) air-to-ground guided munitions, applicable to the F-15E aircraft, is likely to be the first in a series of inexpensive, rapid-response modifications planned by the Air Force to refit a range of weapons that will allow autonomous launch in all weather conditions. That is, as the first in a series of programs to give laser-guided bombs an adverseweather capability, the USAF has begun equipping the GBU-15 glide bombs with GPS-satellite guidance. The guidance kit, which is similar to those used in JDAM (note that the JDAM is a low-cost strap-on guidance kit with GPS/INS capability, which converts existing unguided free-fall bombs into accurately guided smart weapons, thus improving the aerial capability for existing 1,000- and 2,000-lb bombs) gravity bombs dropped by the B-2 Spirit bombers, will allow the Enhanced GBU-15 glide bomb to strike within a few feet of its aimpoint, even through a heavy layer of clouds. The system uses reference signals provided by the navigation satellites (i.e., GPS). The EGBU-15 successfully completed its first Phase II program weapon drop test at the Eglin AFB range in August 2000. An F-15E launched the weapon at 25,000 ft at a speed of 530 knots (roughly 609 mph), 17.8 miles from the target location [1]. The weapon received a significant upgrade in its ability to attack in all weather conditions using the GPS. Moreover, the weapon can carry either a 2,000-lb Mk 84 blast fragmentation warhead or a BLU-109 penetrating warhead, and can be guided by either television or an IR seeker. It has a nominal standoff range of 15 nautical miles, the ability to lock on after launch mode, and high precision against critical targets.
