The correlating data for this system is a single string of terrain height data. This string is obtained, as discussed earlier, with measurements from the radar altimeter, which provides height of the missile above the ground level and measurements from the baro-temperature-inertial system that provides a reference height of the missile above mean sea level. The radar altimeter when used at cruising altitudes of less than 5,000 ft (1524 m) provides both the missile’s height above ground and the information needed to navigate in hilly terrain. The use of the temperature probe along with the barometric and inertial vertical sensors (i.e., accelerometers) significantly increases the accuracy of the reference height measurements. These two measurements, radar altimeter and mean sea level altitude, are subtracted to obtain variation of the terrain elevation under the missile flight path. This long sample of sensed data is compared, a column at a time, with a reference column in the air vehicle’s onboard computer. The computer memory contains all columns of reference terrain elevations that the missile should be flying down at that point in the mission. The matrix of reference elevations is commonly called a terrain correlation map. By computing the best possible match of the measured to stored elevation data, the navigation system estimates its position when over the map center and then updates itself. The stored maps are selected to be wide enough so that there is a very high probability of crossing the maps and also long enough so that there is a very high probability of obtaining a successful fix. Evidently, the resultant map area impacts the amount of data required to be stored in the missile. Within certain limits, the accuracy of the fix is primarily a function of the cell size of the map. That is, the smaller the cell size, the more accurate the fix. However, the smaller cell size requires more onboard storage, more processing time, and in addition, the map is more expensive to produce. This is the basic tradeoff that the systems analyst must make in selecting cell size for maps all along the mission.

A more detailed account of the terrain correlation processing for a single map is conceptually shown in Figure 7.18.
