Figure 7.23 illustrates the role of the Kalman filter in a terrain-aided navigation (TAN) system. The interpretation of this block diagram for terrain-aided navigation is as discussed earlier. That is, the terrain-aided navigation concept is based on comparing measured terrain height (i.e., the difference between barometric (or reference altitude) and radar altitudes) with terrain height at the position determined from an unaided inertial navigator. The difference between the two terrain heights is equivalent to, as stated above, the residual of Kalman filtering and can be processed to provide optimal estimates of the navigation errors. These estimates can then be used to correct the navigation system.

Note that the Kalman filter uses a dynamic model; that is, a truth model is used to generate the data. Finally, a simulation (e.g., covariance analysis or Monte Carlo simulation) must be carried out in which the truth model can be different from the Kalman filter model, so that sensitivity to modeling errors can be assessed. The terrain height $h ( x , y )$ can be modeled in the form of Gaussian hills as follows:

$$h (x, y) = \sum_ {i = 1} ^ {N} \exp \{- c ^ {2} [ (x - x _ {i}) ^ {2} + (y - y _ {i}) ^ {2} ] \}, \tag {7.19}$$

where the locations of the peaks $( x _ { i } , y _ { i } )$ are chosen at random. In performing the aforementioned simulation, this effort would entail generating a terrain sector and obtaining its statistical characteristics (e.g., correlation function) in terms of the parameters $( \mathrm { i } . \mathrm { e } . , c ^ { 2 }$ and N) of the model. Simultaneously, some examples of actual terrain must be analyzed for the corresponding statistical characteristics. By doing this, one can determine how to set $c ^ { 2 }$ and N to simulate different types of physical terrain. Typical values for $c ^ { 2 }$ and N are $c ^ { 2 } = 1 2 5 , N = 2 5$ . The smaller the value of $c ^ { 2 }$ , the rougher the terrain. The Gaussian hill model given above matches well the statistical characteristics of some geographical region and produces terrain maps that resemble actual terrain sectors.
