Standoff range is 15 nm (27.8 km).</td></tr><tr><td>GBU-35</td><td>GPSINS</td><td>The GBU-35 uses the Mk 82 blast/frag warhead.
Its standoff range is also 15 nm (27.8 km).</td></tr><tr><td>GBU-37</td><td>GPS/INS guided.</td><td>This is a 5,000-lb penetrator bomb used against hardened underground targets.
It is also known as GAM-113.
The GBU-37 was used successfully in Afghanistan against the Taliban.</td></tr></table>

XM 172 (see also Chapter 1). The ERGM is a 12-caliber rocket-assisted projectile carrying a four-caliber submunitions payload to ranges of about 63 nautical miles (117 km), well beyond the range of current Navy gun ranges. The 110-lb (50-kg) aerodynamic projectile is 5 in (13 cm) in length, uses a coupled GPS/INS guidance system, and is armed with a submunitions warhead. The GPS guidance is tightly coupled to an inertial guidance system that will be immune to jamming, a feature that will enable the ERGM round to attack targets in a heavy ECM environment. The initial warhead configuration for ERGM will consist of 72 EX-1 submunitions per round. The EX-1 is a variant of the U.S. Army-developed M80 dual-purpose conventional munition, which incorporates a shaped charge and an enhanced fragmentation case for use against materiel and personnel targets. The ERGM’s submunitions will be uniformly dispensed within a predetermined area that depends upon the specific target to be attacked and the altitude at which the submunitions are released. ERGM’s range and precise GPS targeting capability will improve naval surface fire support (NSFS) and provide near-term gunfire support for amphibious operations, the suppression and destruction of hostile antishipping weapons and air-defense systems, and naval fires support to the joint land battle. Thus, the ERGM will allow ships to hit enemy targets deep ashore with concentrated fire, in support of Army and Marine units. Guidance will be provided from an inertial measurement unit (IMU). Relying on GPS satellites for accuracy, the missile will be launched from shipboard guns. Upon exiting the gun barrel, the missile’s’canards and tail fins deploy immediately to control it to an unjammed 20-meter CEP accuracy; submunitions can be dispensed at an altitude of 250–400 meters. The ERGM, with a short time-of-flight, has 200◦/hr fiber optic gyros in the Navy version and micromachined silicon gyros in the Army shell.

IOC is scheduled for FY 2005 and is to be deployed on later versions of the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke-class destroyer and the future DD-21 Land Attack destroyer equipped with the service’s new 5-in/0.62 caliber gun.
