<table><tr><td>Missile System and Designation</td><td>Guidance System</td><td>Speed</td><td>Range</td><td>Remarks</td></tr><tr><td>Harpoon AGM-84A/C/D/G R/UGM-84A/C/D/G (Submarine-launched).</td><td>Uses a 3-axis ARA (attitude reference assembly) to monitor the missile&#x27;s relation to launch platform. In addition, it uses a BOL when the range to the target is known. Sea-skimming cruise monitored by radar altimeter, active radar terminal homing. Uses an active radar-homing seeker.</td><td>Mach 0.85</td><td>75–80 nm(139–148 km)150 nm (278 km for the RGM-84F)</td><td>These series of Harpoons are long-range sea-skimming antiship missiles; they can be launched from bombers, ships, submarines, and coastal defense platforms. Like the French (Aerospatiale) Exocet and the Norwegian (Kongsberg) AGM-119 Penguin short-range antiship missiles, the Harpoon is a “fire and forget” weapon. In addition to the Navy aircraft, the Harpoon has also been deployed from B-52G aircraft. (See also Table F.6).</td></tr><tr><td>Air-Launched Cruise Missile (AGM-86B)</td><td>Inertial plus TERCOM.</td><td>Mach 0.6</td><td>1,555 miles(2,502 km)</td><td>A small, subsonic, winged air vehicle, currently deployed on B-52H aircraft, which is equipped with a nuclear warhead.</td></tr><tr><td>Conventionally armed Air-Launched Cruise Missile (AGM-86C/D)</td><td>GPS/INS</td><td>Mach 0.6</td><td>1,600 miles(2,574 km)</td><td>A nonnuclear version of the AGM-86B, the conventionally armed air-launched cruise missile (CALCM) was first used operationally during the Persian Gulf War. The 3,150 lb. CALCM has a 2,000-lb high-explosive warhead that throws out a spray of metal balls,</td></tr></table>

(Continued)

Table F.3. (Continued)
