Therefore, in order to determine the GPS user accuracy in the horizontal and vertical directions, assuming that the pseudorange accuracy is known, one simply multiplies the pseudorange accuracy by the corresponding value of HDOP or VDOP. It is clear that all GDOP-related performance measures indicate the error in an estimated navigation quantity “per unit of measurement noise” covariance. In terms of the pseudorange measurement error covariance matrix R, the covariance matrix P of the error in the GDOP can be expressed as follows:

$$P = (G ^ {T} R ^ {- 1} G) ^ {- 1} \tag {7.30}$$

and

$$t r P = G D O P ^ {2} = t r \left[ \left(G ^ {T} R ^ {- 1} G\right) ^ {- 1} \right]. \tag {7.31}$$

We can summarize the GDOP concept by noting that all of the above GDOP-related measures depend solely on the geometry matrix G. Smaller GDOP values indicate stronger or more robust geometric solutions to the estimation problem. Finally, note that for practical navigation purposes, ships require reception of only three satellites to determine the horizontal position. Once the best GDOP has been selected, one must determine how good the measurement of position is. Position dilution of precision (PDOP) is used as a measure of position error. A “good” PDOP indicates that the satellites exhibit good geometry as seen by the user. A good PDOP is a low value, typically between 2 and 4. In the case of independent, identically distributed ranging errors to the satellites, the rms three-dimensional position error is equal to the rms ranging error multiplied by PDOP.

Taking advantage of differential methods can enhance the performance of a GPS receiver in a local geographic environment significantly. The differential GPS (DGPS) takes advantage of previously defined geodetic positions and stable time to determine ranging offsets relative to the received satellite (or space vehicle (SV )) signals. These ranging deltas may then be transmitted to a remote receiver, incorporated in the position solution, and thereby provide a correction to position variance associated with the position solution. This technique will require a GPS set at a known (i.e., surveyed) position. That set can determine range errors or position discrepancies by comparing known position with GPS-derived position. The error data can then be broadcast to GPS-equipped users operating in the region to compensate for GPS system errors.
