The TERCOM technique, first patented in 1958, relies for its operating principle on the simple fact that the altitude of the ground above sea level varies as a function of location. For example, if one were to make a rectangular map of an area 2 km × 10 km long, divide the map into squares, say, 100 meters on a side, and record in each square the average elevation of the ground in it, one would then obtain a digital map consisting of 2,000 numbers, each number corresponding to the elevation of a point of known coordinates on the ground. A set of such maps, which can be made much larger and can have squares with smaller sides if required, is stored in the memory of the missile’s onboard computer. The missile is provided with a downlooking radar altimeter capable of resolving objects on the ground smaller than the map squares from a height of several kilometers. Consequently, as the missile approaches the region for which the computer memory has a map, the altimeter starts providing a stream of ground-elevation data. Furthermore, the computer, by comparing these data with the elevation data it has in its memory, can determine the actual location of the missile with an accuracy comparable to the size of the map cell. It then instructs the autopilot to take any corrective steps necessary to return the missile to its intended trajectory. More than 20 such maps can be stored in the missile’s onboard computer, enabling the missile to update its location information and correct its trajectory frequently during its overland flight.

Historically, TERCOM has evolved from several R&D programs that developed certain areas of the overall process. These programs perfected the technology as it is known today. Some of the companies that did R&D work on TERCOM are LTV-Electrosystems, the Boeing Aerospace Company, USAF Aeronautical Systems Division at Wright-Patterson AFB, Sandia Laboratories, E-Systems, and the McDonnell-Douglas Astronautics. The following list is a chronological overview of this development:
