Horizontal velocity errors in the downtrack dimension result in the measured terrain elevation data-sampling interval being either longer or shorter than the reference matrix cell size. Therefore, although it will have the right number of elevation values, the length of the measured terrain elevation file will be either longer or shorter than it is intended to be. This distortion of the true TERCOM signal adds noise to the correlation process and reduces fix accuracy. Skew error occurs when the vehicle’s groundtrack does not coincide with one of the reference matrix columns but crosses two or more of the columns as the vehicle flies over the matrix area. Specifically, horizontal noises include velocity and skew errors, that is, a displacement error associated with velocity and heading errors. As a result, the measured terrain elevation file is not representative of any of the reference matrix columns, and in fact, it contains measured elevations from two or more columns. Another source of vertical noise in the source data is foliage. The ideal reference data for TERCOM is source data based on the elevation profile of the bare terrain, and a radar altimeter that does not detect foliage. Since the radar altimeter does not see the bare Earth profile, the difference between the acquired radar profile and the photographically derived profile is system noise.

The impact of the noise, of course, depends on the foliage height relative to the terrain roughness. Also, the noise magnitude is dependent on the type of foliage coverage. For instance, jungle-type foliage with complete coverage over an area does not introduce much noise, since the tops of the foliage generally follow the terrain slopes. Moreover, isolated tall trees do not introduce much noise, since the bare ground profile can usually be identified in the photographic data. If the source data are derived from good-quality maps based on field data, so that the map elevation data do not include foliage, the noise contribution from the presence (or absence) of foliage is insignificant. That is, the radar altimeter essentially sees the ground as defined by the source data. However, if the source data are derived from aerial photographs only, the presence of foliage may introduce errors in the source data relative to the bare Earth’s profile.
