The U.S. Navy is also exploring the possibility of using UAV s. However, the Navy wants a more capable UCAV than the Air Force. It is requesting an airborne surveillance capability, in addition to the SEAD/strike role. The Navy version would feature conformal apertures operating a UHF radar, the same frequency used by the E-2C. Furthermore, it would include a narrow-field-of-view SAR/GMI radar, which is also on the USAF system to refine bombing coordinates and conduct poststrike battle damage assessment. The Navy’s air vehicle is expected to have an empty weight of 6,000–12,000 lb. Mission endurance may vary depending on the mission. While a strike mission may last 5–6 hr, a surveillance mission would likely last 9–12 hr. In addition, the Navy is looking into the possibility of first- and second-generation vertical takeoff unmanned aerial vehicles (VTUAV). The performance requirements for a first-generation VTUAV are modest. With a payload of 200–300 lb, the aircraft is to operate at 6,000 ft and above to provide LOS electrooptical data transmission and command and control links. However, the requirements stiffen for generation two, which must deliver antisurface weapons by the year 2020. Specifically, the first-generation VTUAVs would add precision targeting for naval surface fires, wide-area data relay, chemical or biological warfare, reconnaissance, and a search capability for combat search and rescue. Second-generation VTUAVs, expected to be available after 2012, would add five more capabilities: (a) strike warfare, (b) antiair warfare detection, (c) offboard mine detection, (d) long-range communications intercept, and (e) overwater search capabilities. It is expected that VTUAV requirements will rise rapidly after the year 2010 with increasing deliveries of DD-21-class destroyers.
