Specifically, the benefits of the filter are to improve position and velocity of the navigation system and align and calibrate the navigation platform with each new terrain correlation update. As stated earlier in this section, the free flight is used for captive and free flight. Besides satisfying the captive align requirements, the free flight performance is improved, because the filter gets all the knowledge from captive alignment in its off-diagonal covariance matrix terms. Essentially, the INS Kalman filter consists of 15 dominant states. These are 2 position, 2 velocity, 2 tilt, 2 azimuth (computer and platform), 3 gyro drift, 2 gyro scale factor, and 2 accelerometer scale factor. Note that in the aided GPS/INS mode, additional states must be added to account for modeling the GPS error states. The guidance and control functions are mechanized primarily in the cruise missile’s software. More specifically, the cruise missile’s guidance and control system comprises sensing, computational, and actuating elements located in the INS and the flight control element (FCE). All of the computational functions except flight control gain application and filtering are performed in the air vehicle digital computer unit. These computational functions include waypoint steering, vertical screening system, terrain-following system, lateral steering, vertical steering (i.e., altitude hold and terrain following), time of arrival and Mach control, terminal maneuvers, warhead arming, and air data calculations.
