The navigation system or module uses a covariance matrix to produce the position error estimates of the missile system. This covariance matrix represents the standard deviations of the errors in the navigation system at any selected point in time of the mission. Coupled with a transition matrix that propagates the covariance matrix forward along the route, the errors along the entire route can be computed. As discussed above, the covariance matrix contains the 15 dominant error states in the navigation system. There are other types of errors that contribute to navigation accuracy, but these are the major ones. There is an additional matrix (process matrix) that is used to account for the unmodeled errors to a certain extent. By proper design of this “noise” matrix, the navigation system’s covariance matrix is made to fit the true prediction of the navigation accuracy. This true prediction represents a prediction if all error sources were included. The covariance matrix is first initialized with values corresponding to the termination of coarse alignment and expected inertial instrument error parameter values. As a result, the covariance matrix is then propagated each 60 seconds during captive alignment using a state-transition matrix. The inputs to the state-transition matrix are the accelerations, velocities, and angular velocities from the planned missile route. This propagation of the covariance matrix is continued until launch, at which time the covariance matrix of the carrier aircraft navigation errors is combined with the missile’s covariance matrix. The free flight propagation begins at this time and continues throughout the entire interval of missile flight. A Kalman filter process is done at each of the maps. The propagation interval of the covariance matrix in the map area is decreased to 12 seconds in order to increase the accuracy of the updating process. Note that the launch footprint calculation is made after passing over the first map set. A position error ellipse is then computed from the two level-position error covariance terms. From this position error ellipse, the navigation system output quantities may be derived. These are mainly CEP on target and probability of map overflight.
