TERCOM, as discussed earlier, is an Earth reference system developed for long-range cruise missiles to update periodically the INS. Along the preestablished missile flight path, several check areas are chosen to reinitialize the INS. Above the check area, a radar altimeter with a good horizontal and vertical resolution measures elevation of the terrain, resulting in a sequence of altimeter readings along the missile’s track. The sequence is correlated with a stored digitized map of the check area taken from the memory unit to determine the best estimate of the actual position and subsequently to correct the INS. In essence, the common approach has been to obtain separate position fixes for periodically updating the INS by correlating a radar altimeter-derived terrain profile with a stored topographic map, taking the location of the best match to be the position of the navigation system. This correlation technique compares a sensed profile of ground signatures acquired during flight with profiles obtained from a reference map (whose position is known) prepared prior to the flight. This comparison yields the relative (fix) position of the measured profile within the reference map that is used to create a position update for the inertial navigation system onboard the missile. The method of position updating is illustrated in block diagram form in Figure 7.21. This figure shows the acquisition of a sensed data set and its interaction with the vehicle (i.e., missile) navigation system.
