The DoD has further expanded the payload options for the Predator, demonstrating its ability to launch other, smaller, UAV s and deliver weapons just beyond the laser-guided Hellfire missile. More specifically, on the initiative of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) and the Naval Research Laboratory, the Predator can be used as a mother ship to launch other smaller UAVs, namely, the Finder (flight inserted detector expandable for reconnaissance). The Finder is a 57-lb, GPS-guided system that can carry different sensors; the Predator can carry one Finder under each wing. During tests in August 2002 at Edwards AFB, California, the Predator launched one Finder from 10,000-ft altitude. The flight lasted 25 min, and the aircraft was monitored by the Predator ground station. The Finder can be equipped with various payloads, including an atmospheric sampling sensor or an imagery sensor to conduct reconnaissance in heavily defended areas prior to attack. The Finder is less expensive and harder to detect than the Predator, so it could more easily fly into heavily defended areas without incurring a significant loss if shot down.

Since its first flight on July 3, 1994, the RQ-1A Predator UAV program reached a major milestone, 50,000 flight hours, on October 26, 2002, during an operational sortie.

In addition to the RQ-1 model, that is used for reconnaissance, there is a multirole Predator designated MQ-1, that is used as an unmanned strike platform. On March 22, 2003, during Operation Iraqi Freedom, the MQ-1 Predator found and destroyed an Iraqi ZSU-23-4 radar guided mobile anti-aircraft artillery gun outside the southern Iraqi town of Al Amarah using an AGM-114K Hellfire II missile.
