Most recently, the Air Force’s UCAV has been redesigned. Specifically, the vehicle will be much larger and heavier than the first design. The redesign is intended to narrow the gap between initial prototypes and an operational system. The first prototype, the X-45A UCAV technology demonstration, completed its first flight on May 23, 2002, at Edwards AFB, California, reaching an airspeed of 195 knots at an altitude of 7,500 feet (2,286 meters). The 14-minute flight was a key step in providing a transformational combat capability for the Air Force. Moreover, this first flight successfully demonstrated the UCAV’s flight characteristics and the basic aspects of aircraft operations, particularly the command and control link between the aircraft and its mission-control station. A second X-45A, the Red Bird, is nearly completed and will begin flight test demonstrations in 2003. This will lead to multiaircraft (pack) flight-test demonstrations in 2003. Eventually, UCAVs will fly in packs, searching for enemy antiaircraft missile launchers and working together to destroy them under the supervision of a human operator, who, as stated above, could be located anywhere in the world. Beginning in the summer of 2003, into early 2004, demonstrations for weapons delivery will begin. Culminating in 2006, testing will eventually include UCAVs and manned aircraft operating together during an exercise. Boeing (the developer of the vehicle) and DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) updated the design to prepare for production of the more operationally representative system, the X-45B. The X-45B will be a fieldable prototype aircraft, laying the foundation for an initial operational system toward the end of this decade. Moreover, the X-45B will incorporate low-observable technologies and will be larger and more capable than its predecessor.

The basic concept for UCAV will be a four-ship pack under the command of a battle manager, who will have the situational awareness to command and control the vehicles. In the 2007–2008 time frame, the UCAV will begin to perform its mission, achieving the preemptive destruction of enemy air defense targets.
