# B.4.1 Nominal Robustness

Here we follow Teel (2004). The nominal system is $x ^ { + } = f ( x )$ . Consider the perturbed system

$$x ^ {+} = f (x + e) + w \tag {B.5}$$

where e is the state error and w the additive disturbance. Let $\mathbf { e _ { \theta } } : =$ $\{ e ( 0 ) , e ( 1 ) , \ldots \}$ and $\mathbf { w } : = \{ w ( 0 ) , w ( 1 ) , \ldots \}$ denote the disturbance sequences with norms $\left. \mathbf { e } \right. : = \operatorname { s u p } _ { i \geq 0 } \left. e ( i ) \right.$ and $\left. \mathbf { w } \right. : = \operatorname* { s u p } _ { i \geq 0 } \left. w \left( i \right) \right.$ . Let $M _ { \delta } : = \left\{ ( \mathbf { e } , \mathbf { w } ) ~ | ~ \| \mathbf { e } \| \leq \delta , \| \mathbf { w } \| \leq \delta \right\}$ and, for each $\boldsymbol { x } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ , let $S _ { \delta }$ denote the set of solutions $\phi ( \cdot ; x , \mathbf { e } , \mathbf { w } )$ of (B.5) with initial state x (at time 0) and perturbation sequences $( \mathbf { e } , \mathbf { w } ) \in M _ { \delta }$ . A compact set A is nominally robust asymptotically stable for the (nominal) system $x ^ { + } = f ( x )$ if a small neighborhood of A is locally stable and attractive for all sufficiently small perturbation sequences. We use the adjective nominal to indicate that we are examining how a system $x ^ { + } = f ( x )$ for which A is known to be asymptotically stable behaves when subjected to small disturbances. More precisely Teel (2004):

Definition B.16 (Nominal robust global asymptotic stability). The compact set A is said to be nominally robustly globally asymptotically stable (nominally RGAS) for the system $x ^ { + } = f ( x )$ if there exists a $\mathcal { K L }$ function $\beta ( \cdot )$ and, for each $\varepsilon > 0$ and each compact set X, there exists a $\delta > 0$ such that, for each $x \in X$ and each solution $\phi ( \cdot )$ of the perturbed system lying in $S _ { \delta } , | \phi ( i ) | _ { \mathcal { A } } \le \beta ( | x | _ { \mathcal { A } } , i ) + \varepsilon$ for all $i \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ .

Thus, for each $\varepsilon > 0$ , there exists a $\delta > 0$ such that each solution $\phi ( \cdot )$ of $x ^ { + } = f ( x { + } e ) + w$ starting in a δ neighborhood of A remains in a $\beta ( \delta ) + \varepsilon$ neighborhood of A, and each solution starting anywhere in $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ converges to a ε neighborhood of A. These properties are a necessary relaxation (because of the perturbations) of local stability and global attractivity.
