# B.1 Introduction

In this appendix we consider stability properties of discrete time systems. A good general reference for stability theory of continuous time systems is Khalil (2002). There are not many texts for stability theory of discrete time systems; a useful reference is LaSalle (1986). Recently stability theory for discrete time systems has received more attention in the literature. In the notes below we draw on Jiang and Wang (2001, 2002); Kellet and Teel (2004a,b).

We consider systems of the form

$$x ^ {+} = f (x, u)$$

where the state x lies in $\mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ and the control (input) u lies in $\mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ ; in this formulation x and u denote, respectively, the current state and control, and $x ^ { + }$ the successor state. We assume in the sequel that the function $f : \mathbb { R } ^ { n } \times \mathbb { R } ^ { m } \to \mathbb { R } ^ { n }$ is continuous. Let $\phi ( k ; x , \mathbf { u } )$ denote the solution of $x ^ { + } = f ( x , u )$ at time k if the initial state is $x ( 0 ) = x$ and the control sequence is ${ \bf u } = \{ u ( 0 ) , u ( 1 ) , u ( 2 ) , \ldots \}$ ; the solution exists and is unique. If a state-feedback control law $u = \kappa ( x )$ has been chosen, the closed-loop system is described by $x ^ { + } = f ( x , \kappa ( x ) )$ , which has the same form $x ^ { + } = f _ { c } ( x )$ where $f _ { c } ( \cdot )$ is defined by $f _ { c } ( \boldsymbol { x } ) : = f ( \boldsymbol { x } , \boldsymbol { \kappa } ( \boldsymbol { x } ) )$ . Let $\phi ( k ; x , \kappa ( { \cdot } ) )$ denote the solution of this difference equation at time k if the initial state at time 0 is $x ( 0 ) = x ;$ the solution exists and is unique (even if $\kappa ( \cdot )$ is discontinuous). If $\kappa ( \cdot )$ is not continuous, as may be the case when $\kappa ( \cdot )$ is an implicit model predictive control (MPC) law, then $f _ { c } ( \cdot )$ may not be continuous. In this case we assume that $f _ { c } ( \cdot )$ is locally bounded.1
