Definition C.4 (Tangent vector). A vector $\boldsymbol { h } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is tangent to the set U at u¯ if there exist sequences $u { \xrightarrow [ { U } ] { \nu } } { \bar { u } }$ and $\lambda ^ { \nu } \searrow 0$ such that

$$[ u ^ {\nu} - \bar {u} ] / \lambda^ {\nu} \rightarrow h$$

$\mathcal { T } _ { U } ( u )$ is the set of all tangent vectors.

Equivalently, a vector $\boldsymbol { h } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is tangent to the set U at u¯ if there exist sequences $h ^ { \nu }  h$ and $\lambda ^ { \nu } ~ \searrow ~ 0$ such that $\bar { u } + \lambda ^ { \nu } h ^ { \nu } \in U$ for all $\nu \in \mathbb { I } _ { \geq 0 }$ . This equivalence can be seen by identifying $u ^ { \nu }$ with ${ \bar { u } } + \lambda ^ { \nu } h ^ { \nu }$ .

Proposition C.5 (Tangent vectors are closed cone). The set $\mathcal { T } _ { U } ( u )$ of all tangent vectors to U at any point $u \in U$ is a closed cone.

See Rockafellar and Wets (1998), Proposition 6.2. That $\mathcal { T } _ { U } ( \bar { u } )$ is a cone may be seen from its definition; if h is a tangent, so is αh for any $\alpha \geq 0$ . Two examples of a tangent cone are illustrated in Figure C.3.

Associated with each tangent cone $\mathcal { T } _ { U } ( u )$ is a normal cone $\hat { N } ( u )$ defined as follows Rockafellar and Wets (1998):

Definition C.6 (Regular normal). A vector $\boldsymbol { g } \in \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ is a regular normal to a set $U \subset \mathbb { R } ^ { m }$ at $\bar { u } \in U$ if

$$\langle g, u - \bar {u} \rangle \leq o (| u - \bar {u} |) \forall u \in U \tag {C.15}$$

where $o ( \cdot )$ has the property that $o ( | u - \bar { u } | ) / | u - \bar { u } | \to 0$ as $\boldsymbol { u } \underbrace { \boldsymbol { \imath } } _ { U } \overbar { \boldsymbol { u } }$ with $u \ne \bar { u } ; \hat { N } _ { U } ( u )$ is the set of all regular normal vectors.

Some examples of normal cones are illustrated in Figure C.3; here the set $\hat { N } _ { U } ( u ) = \{ \lambda g \mid \lambda \geq 0 \}$ is a cone generated by a single vector ${ \boldsymbol { g } } ,$ , say, while $\hat { N } _ { U } ( \nu ) = \{ \lambda _ { 1 } g _ { 1 } + \lambda _ { 2 } g _ { 2 } \ | \ \lambda _ { 1 } \geq 0 , \lambda _ { 2 } \geq 0 \}$ is a cone generated by two vectors $_ { g _ { 1 } }$ and g2, say. The term $o ( \left| u - \bar { u } \right| )$ may be replaced by 0 if U is convex as shown in Proposition C.7(b) below but is needed in general since U may not be locally convex at u¯ as illustrated in Figure C.4.

The tangent cone $\mathcal { T } _ { U } ( \bar { u } )$ and the normal cone $\hat { N } _ { U } ( \bar { u } )$ at a point $\bar { u } \in$ U are related as follows.
