As a matter of course, the feedback gain matrix K obtained by the three methods are the same. With this state feedback, the closed-loop poles are placed at s=–2 ; j4 and s=–10, as desired.

It is noted that if the order n of the system were 4 or higher, methods 1 and 3 are recommended, since all matrix computations can be carried out by a computer. If method 2 is used, hand computations become necessary because a computer may not handle the characteristic equation with unknown parameters $k _ { 1 } , k _ { 2 } , \ldots , k _ { n } .$

Comments. It is important to note that matrix K is not unique for a given system, but depends on the desired closed-loop pole locations (which determine the speed and damping of the response) selected. Note that the selection of the desired closed-loop poles or the desired characteristic equation is a compromise between the rapidity of the response of the error vector and the sensitivity to disturbances and measurement noises. That is, if we increase the speed of error response, then the adverse effects of disturbances and measurement noises generally increase. If the system is of second order, then the system dynamics (response characteristics) can be precisely correlated to the location of the desired closed-loop poles and the zero(s) of the plant. For higher-order systems, the location of the closed-loop poles and the system dynamics (response characteristics) are not easily correlated. Hence, in determining the state feedback gain matrix K for a given system, it is desirable to examine by computer simulations the response characteristics of the system for several different matrices K (based on several different desired characteristic equations) and to choose the one that gives the best overall system performance.
